Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7530-IN
,TAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
APRIL 3, 1989
Asia Country Department IV (India)
Population, Human Resources
Urban and Water Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank 9-;thorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -      Rupees (Rs)
Rs. 1.00         -      US$0.07
Rs. 14.60        -      US$1.00
Rs. 1 lakh       -      US$0,849
Rs. 1 crore      -      US$684,932
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - April 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ATI             -    Advanced Training Institute
AVTS            -    Advanced Vocational Training System
BTC             -    Basic Training Center
CAC             -    Central Apprenticeship Council
CAD             -    Computer Assisted Design
CIMI            -    Central Instructional Media Institute
CNC             -    Computer Numerical Control
GPIU            -    Central Project Implementation Unit
CSTARI          -    Central Staff Training and Research Institute
CTI             -    Central Training Institute
DEA             -    Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance
DGET            -    Directorate General of Employment and Training
GDP             -    Cross Domestic Product
GOI             -    Government of India
HTC             -    High Technology Center
IIM             -    Indian 'nstitute of Management
IIT             -    Indian Institute of Technology
ILO             -    International Labor Organization
ITI             -    Industrial Training Institute
MOL             -    Ministry of Labor
MHRD            -    Ministry of Human Resources Development
MPW             -    Ministry of Public Works
MRC             -    Media Resource Center
NCVT            -    National Council for Vocational Training
NVTI            -    National Vocational Training Institute
NVTS            -    National Vocational Training System
REC             -    Regional Engineering College
RIC                  Related Instruction Center
RVTI            -    Regional Vocational Training Institute
SEC             -    State Engineering Colleges
SOE             -    Statement of Expenditure
SPIU            -    State Project Implementation Unit
UNDP            -    United Nations Development Programme
UT              -    Union Territory



FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
rage No.
BASIC DATA ...............................   vi
LQAN AND CREDIT PROJECT SUMMARY ............................   vii
I.  THE LABOR FORCE. EMPLOYMENT AND
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ................................    1
A. Introduction .................                               1
B. Background . ..............................................   2
C.  The National Vocational Training System .....   .............  4
D.  Problems and Issues in Vocational Training .....  ..........  7
E.  Governmi,-t Sectoral Goals and Strategy .....  .............. 11
F. Bank Experience in the Sector .......    ..................... 12
G.  Bank Sector Strategy ............. ........................  12
H. Rationale for Involvement in the Proposed Project ........ 12
II.  THE PROJECT .   ..................................................  13
A.    Project  Origin   ...........................................    13
B.  Project Objectives and Summary Description ....   ........... 13
C.  Detailed Project Description .............................  17
Modernizing the Craftsman and Apprenticeship
Training Programs
(Proposed Outlay US$324.6 million) .....   ............ 18
Expanding Advanced Training Programs
(Proposed Outlay US$77.8 million) .....   ............. 21
Improving National Vocational Training System
Planning, Management and Supervision
(Proposed Outlay US$28.8 million) .....   ............. 23
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission which visited
India in May 1988 comprising N. Colletta (Senior General Educator, Mission
Leader), C. Valdivieso (Economist), V. Demetriou (Senior Architect/
Implementation Specialist)), R. Walt kVocational Training Specialist,
Consultant), T. Twigger (Technical Educator, Consultant) and H. K. Yip
(Economist/Statistician, Consultant); and an appraisal mission that visited
India in September/October 1988, led by N. Colletta and comprising the same
mission members as the pre-appraisal mission and L. Miravalles (Management
Specialist, Consultant).
I   This dc-iqmpnt h    r rPctr -wdl ritrihiltinn  anr'd m  v I- a  t'1 hv r ^ir' ntc  nniv in ii   r rfnrm  r*



ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION .....      .............  26
A. Costs ....................................................  26
B.  Financing ................................................  28
C.  Status of Project Preoaration ......      ...................... 30
D.  Implementation . ...........................................  32
E.  Procurement ................. .............................  34
F.  Disbursements ...........       .......................  37
G.  Monitoring and Reporting ..... ...... .....................  39
H.  Accounts and Audits ..................................  40
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................................  40
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......      .................  41
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 2.1:  Present and Proposed Improvements in
Vocational Training ............................  14
Table 3.1:  Summary of Froject Costs by Component .26
Table 3.2:  Summary of Project Costs bv Category of
Expenditure .27
Table 3.3: Financing Plan .29
Table 3.4:  Procurement Arrangements .36
Table 3.5:  Disbursement Forecast .38
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators .43
2.  Technical Education and Vocational Training .45
3.  The Apprenticeship Training Scheme .49
4. Financing of Vocational Training
Table  1: Tuition Fees/Stipends under Craftsmen .55
Training Scheme, by States/UTs, 1988
Table  2: Expenditures on Centrally Sponsored
Schemes .56
Table  3: Budget Outlay on Vocational Training
(Central Sector) .57
Table  4: Budget Outlay on Vocational Training
(State Expenditures on Craftsmen Training
Scheme) - General .58



iii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
Table  5: Budget Outlay on Vocational Training
(State Expenditures on Craftsmen Training
Scheme)   -  Women   ...............................  59
Table  6: Budget Outlay on Vocational Training -
State Expenditures on Apprenticeship
Training   ......................................  60
Table  7: Budget Outlay on Vocational Training -
State Expenditures on Advanced Vocational
Training  System   ...............................  61
5.  Demand and Supply of Skilled Manpower ........... ............  62
Table  1: Percentage Distribution of Total Workers
by   Industry,   1981   .............................  65
Table  2: Percentage Distribution of Total Workers
by  Occupation,   1981   ...........................  65
Table  3: Percentage Distribution of Population by
Educational Attainment, 1981 ....     ..............  66
Table  4: Estimated Stock cf Educated Manpower,
Table 5: 1985-1990 ....              ....                   66
ITable  5: Institutional Out-Turn and Stock of
Craftsmen .67
Table  6: Estimated Stock of Craftsmen, 1987-1995 .67
Table  7: Number of ITIs and Total Seating Capacity         68
Table  8: Training of Crafts,men in Government ITI, 1985    69
Table  9: Government and Private ITIs and Enrollments
by State/lUTs,  .986-1987 .70
Table 10: The Development of Apprenticeship Scheme -
Number of Seats and Utilization .71
Table 11: Number of Apprentices Trained, 1964-1985          71
Table 12: Estimated Supply of Craftsmen, 1985-1995          72
Table 13: Estimated Supply of Craftsmen Resulting
from the Project, 1985-1995 .73
6. Modernization of Vocational Training Programs
Table 1: Applicant Statistics for Craft Training
in Government, 1985 ............ ................   74
Table 2: Projected Training Output from Post ITI
Skill Development Courses for .75
Self-Employment
Table 3: Projected Training Output of Basic
Training Centres .76



iv
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
Table  4: Projected Training Output of Related
Instruction Contres ...........................   77
Table  5: Projected Training Output under the AVTS ......  78
Table  6: Projected Training Output of New ITIs/
Wings for Women ...............................   79
Table  7: Projected Training Output of NVTI/RVTIs .......  80
Table  8: Projected Training Output of CSTART ....       .......  81
7.  Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators ........................  82
8. Project Costs
Table  1: Project Cost Summary ..........................  86
Table  2: Project Components by Year .....         ...............  87
Table  3: Project Components by Year including .... ......  88
Contingencies
Table  4: Financing Plan by Project Components .... ......  89
Table  5: Summary Accounts Cost Summary ....         .............  90
Table  6: Summary Accounts by Year ......................   91
Table  7: Summary Accounts by Year including ....       ........  92
Contingencies
Table  8: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category .......  93
Table  9: Summary Account by Project Component .... ......  94
Table 10: Breakdown of Summary Accounts in Rs  .... ......  95
Table 11: Breakdown of Summary Accounts in US$ .... ......  96
9.   Technical Assistance Programs  ......        .........................  97
Table 1:  Technical Assistance Summary ........ ..........  102
Table 2:  Technical Assistance Summary - Training ....... 103
Table 3:  Technical Assistance Summary - Experts  ....... 104
and Consultants
10.  Selected Documents and Data in Project File ....         .............  105
CHARTS
Chart 1:  System of Technical/Vocational Education ....         ...........  107
Chart 2:  Organizational Structure of the Ministry
of Labor ..........       ...................................  108
Chart 3:  Organizational Structure of the Directorate
Geaeral of Employment and Training .....        ..............  109
Chart 4:  Organizational Structure of Equipment
Maintenance System ...................................  110
Chart 5:  Linkage between CIMI, CSTARI and ITIs ....         ..............  111
Chart 6:  Organizational Chart of Central Staff Training
and Research Institute ...............................  112
Chart 7:  Organizational Structure of the Project
Management Office ....................................  113



v
TABLE QF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.:)
Chart 8: Implementation Responsibilities at
National/State Levels ................................  114
Chart 9:  Implementation Schedule ................................  115



vi
INDI
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Basic Q^;^ I
General
Population (million) (1986)                   780
Annual growth (%)                           2.2
Urban population (% of total)                  25
GLiP per capita (US$)                         270
Population below poverty line (1983)          37.4
EmDloyment in the Creanized Sectors (1986)
uiLlian   Percent
Agriculture                                       1.4        6
Industrial Sectors Lb                            12.4       49
Service Sectors                                  11.3       45
Labor Force ParticiRation Rates (1986)
Male      Female    Total
Participation Rate (%)               55          21        39
Labor Force by Education Level (%)
Primary & Below      Secondary      Higher
80               15            5
Number of Vocational Training and Technical Education Institutions. Enrollments
and OutRut (1986-87)
No. of                         Annual
Type              Institutions      Enrollments      Output
ITI (Government)             852            228,278        80,350
ITI (Private)              1,035             98,831        25,327
AVTS                          22             10,000        10,000
Secondary Voc. Schools    1,500              72,000        26,000
Polytechnics                 467            194,000        68,000
SEC                          272             59,400        15,000
REC                           17             21,000         5,500
IIT                            5              4,000         1,300
Apprenticeship Training      139 (trades)  131,486         49,500
Ministry of Labor: Training Budget Allocations (US$ million)
Plan      Non-Plan
Actual  (1985-86)                              1.3          3.9
Budget Estimates (1986-87 Revised)             2.4          4.0
Budget Estimates (1987-88)                     1.3         4.5
/a  Sources: Ministry of Manpower & M_.nistry of Humani Resources
Development (unless shown otherwis).
/b Includes mining and quarrying, manufacturing, construction, public
utilities, and transport and communications. Includes employment
in establishments of 10 workers or more.



vii
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PR3JECT
LDAN. CREDIT. AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:                Directorate General of Employment and
Training (DGET) and States
Amiunts                       IBRD: US$30.0 million equivalent
IDA: SDR 189.2 million (US$250.0 million
equivalent)
Tgrms:                        IBRD: 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate
IDA. Standard, with 35 years maturity
On-Lending   Term:           The re-equipping of the Industrial Training
Institutes (ITIs) component of the project would be
financed through a matching funds arrangement
between the Union Government and the States. Union
funds would be lent to the States as part of
central assistance for development projects on
terms and conditions applicable at the time.
Proiect Description:         The proposed project will support the Ministry of
Labor's (MOL) long-term program to modernize and
restructure the National Vocational Training System
(NVTS). Modernization will entail upgrading
equipment and training systems. Restructur.ng will
Involve replacement of obsolete courses; expansion
of the range of trade cours offerings to cover
most apprenticeship trades; and a gradual shift in
emphrsis of ITI training away from pre-service,
sem'-skilled training to in-service advanced skill
development relevant to the changing technologies
and requirements of industry. The bulk of the
project will be implemented by the participating
States under the coordination and direction of the
Directorate General of Employment and Training
(DGET), MOL.
The primary objectives of the project are to:
(a) improve the quality and efficiency of basic
craftsman and apprenticeship training; (b) expand
and diversify the advanced training programs; and



viii
(c) strengthen the NVTS planning and management
capacity. The participat ion of women would be
increased in each of these areas.
The project will have three major components:
(a) fodernizing craftsman and apprenticeship
training through re-equipping about 400 selected
ITIs and developing related training systems,
extending trade coverage of the National
ApprenttceshIp Training Scheme at 24 Basic Training
Centers and 44 Related Instruction Centers, and
increasing women's access to training in modern
sector trades by constructing about 100 new ITIs
for women and adding women's wings for about 18
trades i-   -ut 72 existing ITIs; (b) expanding the
Advanced Training Programs by introducing about 17
new trades at the advanced skill level in existing
Regional Vocational Training Institutes (RVTIs) and
the National Vocational Training Institute (NVTI),
eatablishing about 34 new Advanced Vocational
Training System Centers c.nd extending existing
Centers, and developing one new High-Technology
Training Center for electrcnics, computers and
robotics; and (c) improving NVTS management and
planning at the DGET and corresponding State Direc-
torates of Training through the strengthening of
the monitoring and evaluation system, improvement
of testing and certification prozesses,
reorientation of management/super-isory training,
and strengthening of research on vocational
Lraining.
The project investments will be linked with actions
to be taken in four key areas. First, steps will
be taken to improve the incentive system for
instructors, particularly in the advanced skill
programs. Second, the links between training
institutions and industry will be strengthened
through the development of local level advisory
boards ar.d establishment of industrial liaison
officers for each training institution. Third, an
equipment maintenance system will be established,
budgeted for, and implemented during the life of
the project. Finally, a comprehensive rmonitoring
and evaluation system would be further developed
and strengthened as a part of '. --hanced NVTS
management information system.



ix
Benefits and Risks:          The mair benefit of the project will be the
provision to the industrial sector of more relevant
and better trained skilled and semi-skilled
manpower. The NVTS will also be rejuvenated and
more closely linKed to industry and better able to
respond to current and projected needs. The
project will increase modern sector training
opportunities for women. The project will also
result in a strengthened planning and managemenc
capacity for vocational training, particularly at
the State level.
The major risk likely to face the project is the
potential delays in implementing a national effort.
Other concerns are: (a) the fact that the MOL has
not previously worked with the Bank; (b) the
continued inadequacy of industry-training
establishment linkages; (c) difficulties in
implementing improved maintenance programs; and (d)
constraints on establishing enhanced incentives for
instructional staff. These risks are being
addressed in a number of ways. First, the project
builds upon an ongoing government sponsored scheme
for modernization of ITIs. In eddition, 40% of the
project is under a single entity. Second, a
detailed procurement plan was prepared and gene.-ic
bidding documents were approved at negotiations.
Third, the DGET will have some flexibility to shift
funds from one ITI/State to another based on
implementation performance, which should
considerably limit implementation delays by any
given State. The additional risks mentioned above
would be addressed through the implementation of
well-prepared project components aimed directly at
improving: monitoring and evaluation, maintenance,
staff incentives, and the strengthening of ITI
industrial advisory boards to improve industry-
train.ing establishment l.nkages.



x
Estimated Costs:
For-                      For-            % AJ/
Local    aign   Total        Local  sign  Total   Mase
-------Rs million-----        -- US$ million--- cost
A. Modernizing the
craftsman and
apprenticeship
training prcgrams  3,079.8   646.2  3,726.0        210.9  44.3  225.2    76
B. Expanding advanced
training programs    568.0   357.7    825.7         38.9  17.6   56.6    17
C. Improving NVTS
planning manage-
ment & supervision   280.8    75.0    335.8         19.2   5.1   24.4       7
Total Basg Costs   3.928.6   978.9  4.907.5        269.1  6      336.1 I1Q
Contingencies
Physical              436.9   105.7    542.6        29.9   7.2   37.2    11
Price               1,162.8   265.0  1,427.8        45.7  10.7   56.5    17
Total               5D58. 1.349,6  6.877.9         34.7  L5,2  42.8   12&
a/ Refer to US$ figures. All figures are rounded.
12/ Includes Rs 539 million (U$33.9 million equivalent) in taxes and duties.



xi
Financing Plan:
Locl        Foreig             Total
- - -..- US$Million ----------
IBRD/IDA                       195.0          85.0             280.0
GOI !/                         149.8            -              149.8
TOTAL                    344.8          85.0            429.8
Estimated Disbursements:
FY89    FY90   FY91   E2i  FY93   FY94   DM    FY96    22
Annual        -      11.2   30.8   56.0   42.0   56.0   28.0   42.0   14.0
Cumulative   -       11.2   42.0   98.0  140.0  196.0  224.0  266.0  280.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
' This includes about US$55.0 million to be born by the States.



ID1IA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
I. THE LABOR FORCE. EMPLOYMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
A. Introduction
1.1       The project will be the first IBRD/IDA-assisted project in vocational
training in India. Its long-term objective is to improve the efficiency of
industry by providing workers who are trained in a high quality manner in
relevant skill areas. It will seek to achieve this objective in three ways.
First, it will improve the quality and efficiency of training for craftsmen.
Second, it will expand the scope and r levance of advanced skill training
programs. Third, it will strengthen the planning and management of vocational
training at central and State levels. Toward these aims, it will support the
re-equipping and refurbishing of training institutes, the introduction at
training centers of new trades, the creation of some new training centers in
key fields, and the improved training of teachers for the vocational training
system.
1.2       The project will be linked with measures to be taken in four key
areas. First, it will strengthen linkages between industry and training.
Second, it will promote improved incentives for the attraction and retention of
qualified teachers. Third, it would develop and ensure appropriate budgets for
an equipment maintenance system. Finally, it will assist in strengthening a
monitoring and evaluation system for key vocational training programs that
will, among other things, monitor information on costs and financing and on the
employment experiences of graduates. This inforwAtAon, along with the results
of studies conducted under the project, will provide the data base for a mid-
term project review which will feed back into the desi0n of future training.
1.3       A special feature of the project is that it will pay particular
attention to promoting training for women in modern sector and high-tech
trades. It will support the expansion and upgrading of training for women at
the craftsmen and advanced levels and related teacher training. It will aim,
over the life of the project, to increase the share of women in these training



- 2 -
programs from 5 to 10% and to have a major impact on enhancing the job
prospects for women in emerging growth fields.
A. Aackzroun
1.4       Since 1985, substantial policy reforms undertaken by the Government
of India (GOI) have resulted in significantly higher growth rates in
manufacturing, and above-average performance in the industrial sector. While
GDP growth in 1987/88 is expected to be about 3.6%, mainly due to a severe
drought, industrial growth is expected to reach 6.5%. Growth of manufacturing
has averaged nearly 9% in the last three years, and manufactured exports have
surged in the last two years. This is a significant departure from the 1960s
and 1970s, when the performance of manufacturing did not generate the growth,
employment, and foreign exchange that the economy required. The recent high
growth rates in manufacturing need to be maintained if India is to achieve the
minimum 5% growth rate which is needed in order to improve living standards,
provide productive employment for the growing labor force, and reduce poverty. 1/
To achieve this, the manufacturing sectors need to be assured of an adequate
supply of highly trained skilled and semi-skilled workers.
1.5       Employment patterns in India have been changing very slowly.   During
the 1960s and 1970s, capital intensity rose sharply, despite skilled labor
availability. Slow labor absorption by industry was due mainly to slow growth,
increased capital intensity, and a labor market dualism that limited employment
growth and pushed up wages and other labor costs in the organized sector
relative to the unorganized sector. 21 The unorganized sector presently
employs about 80% of the industrial labor force, and it is likely to remain as
the main source of industrial employment growth. Employment in the organized
sector has been growing slowly (2.5%), while employment in the unorganized
sector grew by over 5% p.a. over the last 20 years. The rate of labor force
absorption in India averaged only 3% p.a. between 1960 and 1980. This figure
is extremely low when compared to other Asian countries: between 1960 and 1970,
industrial employment in Pakistan, South Korea and Thailand grew at 9.0%,
10.8%, and 6.0%, respectively.
1.6       India has made !onsiderable progress in the d velopment of human
resources. The literacy rate increased from 17% in 1951 to 36% in 1981, and
for women it rose from 8% in 1951 to 25% in 1981. Literacy at ages 10-14 rose
from 23% in 1951 to 57% in 1981. However, the number of illiterates grew from
about 200 million in 1951 to about 440 million in 1981. Despite the realized
gains, India's social services are still less extensive and effective than
those in many other developing countries (See Annex 1, Comparative Education
1/ See World Bank, India: Recent DeveloRments and Medium Te.m Issues, Report
No. 7185-IN, April 29, 1988.
/ The unorganized sector includes houschold establishments and those with
fewer than 10 workers and power, or fewer than 20 workers and no power.



- 3 -
Indicators). The literacy rate in India, for example, is well below that in
Indonesia (62%) and China (76%).  In addition, onlv a third of those enrolled
in the primary level in India complete the sixth grade, while 60% do so in
China and Indonesia. Within Iidia, there are considerable differences among
regions.
1.7       The New Education Policy (1986) is attempting to deal with these
problems. Operation Blackboard aims to improve primary school facilities and
teaching materials, and provide additiona. staff for schools.  A comprehensive
national literacy mission is underway to eliminate adult illiteracy. A model
secondary school for gifted pupils, with reserved places for girls and
scheduled castes, will be set up in each district. Training, scholarships, and
other assistance will be provided to assist disadvantaged students, and some
states have already begun to raise teachers' pay scales.
1.8       Social service programs, however, are experiencing acute financial
problems. Education, in particular, has been underfunded. In real terms,
budgetary allocations did not keep up with enroliments in the 60s and 70s, so
real expenditures per student declined. There have been some efforts to
increase budgetary allocations in the last two years, but these do not seem
adequate to attain the ambitious goals of the New Education PElicy. In
general, despite the low salaries paid to teachers, expenditures are made up
mostly of personnel costs, leaving littl. for facilities and instructional
materials.
1.9       It has also become increasingly evident that the overall quality and
relevance of India's manpower development programs have not kept pace with
recent technological innovations and changing occupatioril requirements.
Average productivity levels are significantly below those which can be attained
with the newly installed technology, and there are emerging shortfalls in
specialized skill areas such as electronics and computers, especially for semi-
skilled and technician levels. However, if manufacturing is to fulfill its
expected role of leading the country into the next decade, generating higher
incomes, and reducing poverty, steps must be taken to increase labor
absorption, while increasing overall efficiency. The quality of industrial
employment will depend to a large extent on the education and training that
workers can bring to the job, both in the organized an in the unorganized
sectors.
1.10      Higher qualitv and more relevant training for skilled and semi-
skilled industrial workers is needed so as not to constrain economic growth,
and to increase their prospective lifetime earnings and employability in the
organized sector. The National Vocational Training System (NVTS) provides
technical and vocational training for workers at different levels, which helps
to increase their employment and earnings prospects, while at the same time
addressing the issues of the low level of industrial productivity and poor
quality of manufacturing output. The project will constitute an important step
in assisting India in its efforts to modernize vocational training, and,
ultimately, improve the productivity of skilled and semi-skilled industrial
workers.



C.  The National Vocational Training  System
1.11      OvervieY .  At the degree level, the five Indian Institutes of
Technology (IITs) and four Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) form the apex
of the vocational tralning and technical education system, producing the
country's leading engineers, scientists and managers. These institutions also
provide direction and support to the 180 engineering colleges, 17 regional
engineering colleges, 15 technical universities, and 4 technical teacher
training colleges spread throughout the country. Skilled manpower at the
technician level are trained at the 467 diploma level polytechnics, while the
basic technician level (semi-skilled) training is conducted essentially through
the 1,887 (852 public and 1,035 private) certificate level Industrial Training
Institutes (ITIs) of which some 1,434 are affiliated to the NVTS. There is
also a secondary school vocational stream in 1,500 vocational schools operated
by the Department of Education covering about 10% (72,000) of the upper
secondary level enrollment. There are about 25,000 students enrolled at the
degree level, 65,000 at the diploma level, and 310,000 at the certificate level
in these training institutions (See Chart 1, System of Technical/Vocational
Education).
1.12      Organization and Management.  The Directorate General of Employment
and Training (DGET) under the Ministry of Labor (MOL) is responsible for the
development and administration of the certificate-level programs (ITI craftsmen
and apprenticeship training schemes) at the national level. Charts 2 and 3
depict the Organizational Structures of MOL and DGET. The DGET is responsible
for setting training standards and policies, training instructors and
supervisors, and conducting trade testing and certification on behalf of the
National Council for Vocational Training (NCVT) and the Central Apprenticeship
Council (CAC). In addition, the DGET operates a number of apex institutes
which develop and produce curricula, trade tests, and assorted
teaching/learning materials, train master trainers and instructors, and
undertake research on various issues of vocational training. Regarding
employment services, placement and vocational guidance services are provided to
job-seekers through the Employment Exchange network. During 1987, the
employment exchanges effected 334,000 placements. Increasing emphasis is being
placed on motivating job-seekers to take up self-employment and to provide
assistance to them in this regard. Assistance has so far been given to over
20,000 applicants into self-employment.
1.13      Industrial Training Institutes.  The NVTS includes 1,434 (755 public
and 679 private) "affiliated" ITIs which adhere to centrally prescribed
curricui'a and certify students according to standards and tests sanctioned by
the NC,r and the CAC.  These accredited institutions offer a variety of
programs including craft level pre-employment courses of between 6 months' and
2 years' duration in 65 crades; courses in 139 trades linked to the National
Apprenticeship Scheme; women's training in traditional and non-traditional
areas; an Advanced Vocational Training System (AVTS) for employed workers in



selected trades; and foreman/supervisory training. An additional 453 public
and private ITIs are not yet "affiliated" to the national system because they
have not achieved prescribed standards of facilities and staff, but nonetheless
offer craft level courses similar to those of ITIs in the NVTS. A detailed
description of the vocational training system may be found in Annex 2.
1.14      ARprenticeshiR Training.  Apprenticeship training programs began in
industry with the enactment of the Apprentices Act in 1961. There are about
140,000 trade apprentices undergoing training in 130 trades in approximately
14,000 firms. The duration of training for trade apprentices varies from six
months to four years depending upon the requirements of the particular trade.
Syllabi for different trades are prepared by respective trade committees
represented by experts from the professional associations, employee unions and
Government. About 85% of the training co,isists of practically oriented basic
training and 15% of related instruction of a more theoretical nature. Annex 3
gives a detailed description of the national apprenticeship training scheme.
1.15      Finance and Costs.  Vocational training in India is predominantly
subsidized by the Government. No student fees are charged for public ITIs in
most states, while fees ranging between Rs 10 and Rs 15 per month are charged
in 5 states. In addition, most States pay monthly stipends to trainees, which
range between Rs 40 and Rs 125 per month (Annex 4, Table 1). Nominal fees are
charged for the AVTS ooerated in 16 selected ITIs, the Advanced Training
Institutes (ATI) and the Cencral Training Institute (CTI) at Madras.
Industrial firms are required to pay for the training provided to trainees
sponsored by them, but the amount paid ranges from about 50% of the total
training cost for the apprentice training scheme to only a small fraction of
the cost of training for the AVTS. In addition, industry has to bear the
salaries of trainees to the various training schemes. Public sector
establishments are not required to pay for sponsoring trainees.
1.16      Government expenditures on vocational training are financed from
general revenues. There is no tax specially earmarked for the financing of
vocational training. Although recurrent costs are entirely borne by the
States, there are centrally sponsored schemes such as modernization of ITIs
(replacement of machinery) and establishment of women's ITIs, where investment
costs are shared on an equal basis by the central Go, _rnment and the
participating States. Recurrent costs after completion of in'.estments,
however, are the responsibility of the State Gove:nments. Although these
centrally sponsored schemes only started in 1986/87, actual expenditures each
year have been greater than budgeted (Annex 4, Table 2), indicating good
implementation performance. Annual budget outlays at the central level have
been relatively constant at about Rs 115,000 during the last 2 years
(Annex 4, Table 3), an increase of about 30% over average outlays in 1984-86.
1.17      Recurrent expenditures required for the day-to-day running of the
existing training programs are determined by individual States on the basis of
staffing norms and other standards laid down by the DGET. The average cost per
trainee (1987) for the craftsmen training scheme was Rs 4,000 p.a., and for the
apprenticeship training scheme, Rs 6,000 p.a. The unit costs for the AVTS vary
from institute to institute depending on the type of programs offered. For



-6-
'plan' expenditures, which are required for the new programs, such as the
introduction of new trades in existing institutes, the replacement of
equipment, and the establishment of new institutes, the State Governments have
to submit their budgets to the Planning Commission for inclusion in the Five
Year Plan. The DGET's role is to assess the proposals prepared by the State
Governments and give policy support. It would cost around Rs 10 million to
establish a new ITI with around 250 seats.  The capital cost for an ATI such as
Madras runs at around Rs 37 million.
1.18      State expenditures on vocational training make up over 90% of total
expenditures, the bulk (Rs 367 million investment costs and Rs 774 million in
recurrent costs in 1987/88) being in the craftsmen training scheme (Annex 4,
Tables 4-7). The States with the highest expenditures on vocational training
are Maharashtra, the Punjab and Andhra Pradesh. For Maharashtra, total
expenditures in vocational training represented about 0.6% of total
expenditures in 1987/88. In the Punjab, total expenditures in vocational
training were about 1.5% of total expenditures, and in Andhra Pradesh, they
were about 0.3% of total expenditures. About 90% of total expenditures on
women's ITIs are carried out by the Punjab (Rs 18 million in investment costs
and Rs 90 million in recurrent costs in 1987-99).
1.19      The Private and Fublic Sectors in Vocational Training.  Vocational
training in India at the craftsman level is conducted both by Government and
private ITIs. The growth of the sector has been quite dynamic: enrollments
increased from about 193,000 in 1980/81 to about 327,000 in 1986/87, or an
annual growth rate of about 9.4%. While enrollments in the Government ITIs
grew at an average rate of 4.7% p.a., the growth of private sector enrollments
was much higher, at an average rate of 30.8% p.a. during the period. Due to
these differential growth patterns, the relative proportion of ITI trainees in
private institutions increased from about 10% of total enrollments in 1980/81
to about 30% in 1986/87. There are about 228,000 trainees in Government
institutions (70% of the total), and 98,800 in private institutions (30% of the
total as shown in Annex 5, Table 8). There is a very high concentration of
private ITIs in a few States, so about 90% of enrollments can be found in 5
states: Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Maharashtra.
Private enrollments are higher than Government enrollments  n three states:
Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Kerala. About 26 Stal ,s/Union Territories (UTs)
have negligible private sector enrollments (3% or less in 16 States/UTs, and
none in 10 States/UTs). Out of a total of 1,887 Government and private ITIs,
about 45% (850 institutions) are in the public sector, and 55% (1,035
institutions) are in the private sector. The average size of Government ITIs
(268 students) is considerably larger than that of private ITIs (95 students).
Public institutions are not only about three times as large as private
institutions, but they offer quite a larger variety of trades, especially those
trades with higher capital intensity.
1.20      Private ITIs charge a monthly fee of around Rs 80 in addition to an
annual lump-sum fee.  They are able to survive mainly by offering low-capital
intensive courses, by obtaining subsidies from sponsoring organizations, and
through production, maintenance, and repair contracts with industry. Contracts
with industry cover as much as 50% of operating costs in some private ITIs. In



-7-
general, instructors in private institutes are paid between 50% and 75% of the
Government salary scale, but the quality of instruction often is also lower.
1.21      There is a dichotomy in the quality of private ITIs. On one hand,
there are a few institutions providing top-quality training, while many private
institutions are small (less than 50 trainees) and clustered in a few low-
capital intensity, high-demand trades. The higher quality institutions
generally were established more than 15 years ago, and are affiliated with
religious, charitable, or industrial concerns. Most of the smaller, low-
quality private institutions were established during the last six years, in
response for demand for skilled and semi-skilled labor from the Gulf states,
rather than from the domestic economy.
1.22      The growth of the private sector ITIs shows that additional (mostly
financial) incentives to stimulate growth ar- not necessary at this time.
However, there is still a need for Government to strengthen the framework for
vocational training, to promote improvements in the relevance and quality of
training in the private sector.
D. Problems and Issues in Vocational Training
1.23      The NVTS aims to contribute to the industrial development process by
providing skilled labor for the industrial sector in the necessary amounts, and
with adequate skills and quality. It needs to modernize equipment and curricula
to satisfy the demand for skilled and semi-skilled labor in the economy;
improve the skills and participation of women in the industrial labor force;
provide increased opportunities for organized employment and income growth for
workers from poor socio-economic backgrounds; and provide opportunities for
self-employment. These are discussed below.
1.24      Supply and Demand for Skilled Labor.  The vocational training schemes
in India have been making a sound contribution to building initial stocks of
industrial skills. These are particularly appreciated by small and medium
establishments, which usually cannot afford to train their own employees. A
recent study which estimated rates of return for different training schemes has
corroborated the value of such training. i/ The social rate of return was 13%
for apprenticeship training and 14% for craftsmen training. The study did not
estimate rates of return for AVTS ard foremen trainit.6, as the total number of
graduates from these programs was still limited, and adequate age-income
profiles could not be built.
1.25      Interviews with members of the Confederation of Engineering
Industries, representing mostly large, private sector firms, indicated a
general consensus on the usefulness of craftsmen training, but most firms
needed to supplement the training of graduates with an additional year of on-
the-job training. Firms felt that the rapid changes in industrial composition
and technology warranted changes in the concept of training for skilled labor.
i_/ C.P. Thakar and S. Umetani, "An Economic Evaluation of the Public
Vocational Training Schemes in India," Report No. 2, MOL, July 1987.



- 8 -
Additional training capacity was needed in certain industries, especially
plastics, plastic parts and components, computers, and electronics.
1.26      Even though the focus of the NVTS program is on quality improvements
rather than on major further expansion of craftsmen training, conservative
assumptions about industrial demand for skilled and semi-skilled labor in the
Indian manufacturing industry indicate that annual requirements for the
organized sector will be on the order of 145,000 by 1995. Current annual
output of craftsmen is about 90,000, and can be expected to grow to about
110,000 by 1995 (Annex 5), so graduates should be able to find adequate
industrial employment. A recent national survey by the Planning Commission
obtained t-.e following unemployment rates: 14% for ITI graduates, 30% for
polytechnic graduates, and 7% for graduates of regional engineering colleges.
Both qualitative and quantitative improvements to the various vocational
training schemes at the semi-skilled, skilled, and highly skilled levels are
necessary to cater to the needs of the organized sector, especially considering
that 75% of those employed in large-scale industry are either ITI or
apprenticeship scheme graduates. A 1986 study for Rajasthan 4/ showed there
are more shortages at certificate (ITI) level than in degree and diploma level
in both number of trades and number of workers. In addition, there are large,
uncharted demands of the unorganized and small industry sector for training
output from ITIs.
1.27      Relevance.  Industries have often found ITI trainees of poor quality
or not trained in areas relevant to their needs. Improvements itl external
efficiency are in large part dependent on strengthening linkages between
industries and training establishments. For example, many private ITIs have
obtained contracts with local industry to produce certain goods to determined
specifications. These items are then purchased by industry, generating
additional income for the institution, to help finance operational costs
(especially maintenance, replacement of equipment, or salary supplements for
instructors). In addition, this actively offers practical training to
students, who must produce under strict quality and timing criteria, goods
which are immediately relevant to industrial needs. This model of training-
industry linkage is also being followed in a few public ITIs, but is not easily
transferable to public institutions in general due to the existence of
bureaucratic obstacles to income generation by indiv4 ual public institutions.
The project will strengthen training-industry linkages in a number of ways.
1.28      The movement from tiaditional, manually operateC equipment to
computer numerically controlled (CNC) equipment is the most vivid example of
technological advances necessitating changes in the training equipment and
instructional systems. India has developed its own capability to design and
manufacture modern production systems. Government policy requires that, by the
end of 1993, 15% of all machine tools produced should be computer controlled.
4/ P.D. Kalkarni, "Design of Technical Education System in Rajasthan for VII
and VIII Five-Year Plans", Department of Educational Planning and
Management, Technical Teachers Training Institute, Chandigarh, February
1986



With the emergence of new industries sdch as electronics, plastics and
computers, the rapidly changing occupational structure has made it imperative
that new courses and in-service advanced training programs be introduced in
order to make the current trainin, system relevant to the changing work
requirements. Local industry could &lso assist in improving the quality and
relevance of vocationa'. training in these areas by providing instructors from
their own staff to serve for fixed periods or on a pait-time basis at an ITI.
1.29      The composition and quality of vocational training also needs to be
overhauled towards high-growth industries, and according to local market
conditions and orospects. Employment prospects of ITI graduates vary by trade,
but 3 years after graduation, between 70% and 85% of graduates have been found
employed in occupations directly related to their training. These percentages
are lower for trades like radio and TV repairmen, and carpenters, but the
percentage of self-employment among these trades is larger. Employment
prospects vary not only by trades, but also among states, and among
institutions ir. each state. For example, in high industrial growth areas like
Haryana, wbsre there already exist about 4,000 large, middle, and small scale
industrial establishments, with about 100 more to be opened in the next 3 to 5
years, employment prospects are excellent. Almost all graduates (turners,
machinists, mechanics, electronics, tool and die, draftsmen, electricians,
stenographers, etc.) are expected to find employment within six months of
graduation.
1.30      Coverage of the NVTh also needs to be broadened to assist in
improving the skills of the unorganized industrial sector, which serves about
80% of the industrial labor force. Not only should skills be provided for
small- and medium-sized industries, but also trades such as auto mechanic,
carpenter, e_., enable graduates to become self-employed.  In addition, the
current trend, which is to support the establishment and improvement of
privately provided vocational training by including them in the Government's
equipment modernization scheme and sharing instructional materials, should
continue. This would allow for greater collaboration between industry and
training institutions, and put less pressure on Government budgets than if ali
vocational training were to be publicly provided.
1.31      Quality and Internal Efficiencv of Vecationa  Training.  A
qualitative assessment of the NVTS has also been undertaken, based on responses
from employers (particularly training and supervisory staff) and on trainees'
own responses. The study showed that the quality of ITI instruction is still
highly variable, that equipment and faculty skills are often obsolete, and that
linkages to local industry need to be further developed.
1.32      The quality of training at the industrial training institutos has
been hampered by insufficient instructional materials, poorly equipped and
outmoded laboratories and workshops, and the shortage and limitted
qualifications of the teaching force, particularly for the ad' nced skill
areas. Most equipment in the industrial training institutes, for example, is
between 10 and 30 years old, in poor condition, and has little or no
relationship to the equipment currently being deployed in industries. The
modernization of equipment in training institutions would in turn require an



- 10 -
updating ana upgrading of related curricula, instructional materials and
instructors, as well as systems of testing and certification to
ensure standardization and quality control.
1.33      The internal efficiency of the vocational training system is affected
by the poor condition of equipment and the lack of qualified instructors. On
average, only an estimated 72% of those sitting for the annual trade
certification test pass. Presently, about 66% of those who enroll in
vocational training programs complete the training, as against an estimated 80%
in 1975/76. Modernization of equipment and improved efficiency would entail
the further development of an equipment maintenance and instructor training
system. Vocational training institutions find it difficult to attract and
retain well-qualified instructors, because of more attractive conditions of
service available in the private sector. Such shiortages are especially acute
in the advanced skill areas of the ITIs.
1.34      Modern Sector Skills and ParticiRation of Women.  Female
participation in the industrial labor force is only 21%, partly as a
consequence of low levels of education and training, although there are still
some cultural barriers.   Traditionally, ITI training for women has been
concentrated in trades such as cutting and tailoring, embroidery, needlecrafts
and secretarial training. Employment in most of these fields is at best
stationary and graduates do not have good employment or earnings prospects.
Unfortunately, little training has been provided for women in high-growth
industries o-; high-tech trades. A survey j/ of about 200 women ITI graduates
from traditional trades found that an average of or.ly 27% were employed, while
48% were unemployed, and 25% were undergoing further training within 1-3 years
after graduation. By trade, about 12% of embroidery and needlecraft graduates,
23% of cutting and tailoring graduates, and 100% of secretarial practice
graduates, were employed. More marketable skills need to be provided to women
if their labor force participation and earnings are to be increased. There is
a strong demand for hiring more trained women in industry, especially in
electronics, telecommunications, computing science and software development,
drafting, and chemical analysis in testing laboratories. In general, employers
have a preference for hiring women in types of work involving precision.
1.35      Increased participation of women in the orga..ized and emerging
industrial sectors, in particular, is a primary objective of the Seventh Five
Year Plan (l990-9.5).  The DGET estimates that women currently make up only 11%
of the workers employed in the organized industrial sectors while their labor
force participation rate is about 21%. Women comprise less than 25% of the
total enrollment of vocational and technical training inscitutions. Of the
190,000 apprentices, women total only about 4,000. Lack of access to relevant
industrial training for women is a major contributing factor to this imbalance.
This is especially true of the non-traditional trades such as electronics and
computers.
ii Report on Survey of Lhe Employment of Ex-Trainees of National Vocational
Training Institute, New Delhi, DGET/ILO 1930.



- 11 -
1.36      Planning. Management and Supervision.  The present planning and
management of vocational training, particularly at the ITI level, is more
oriented to the application of administrative procedures than the improvement
of training performance. Since the establishment of the Central Staff
Institute for Training and Research (CSTARI) in 1968, only 529 ITI principals
have received any form of management training. Considering turnover, this
suggests that fewer than 5% of the ITI principals have received training. The
information system upon which senior managers and planners rely to develop and
monitor vocational training is inadequate. Data from the State level is
usually out-dated and not of adequate quality for effective decision making.
The indicators utilized to monitor the performance of the NVTS are oriented
toward measuring inputs rather than evaluating processes and outcomes.
Computerization of informatior, handling is limited to a few microcomputers
concentrated at the central level. Given the planned expansion of access to
women in modern sector skill development, there is also a need to enhance
curriculum development and management capacity for women's programs throughout
the NVTS.
1.37      Funds have not been adequate to maintain ITI equipment in good
working order or, especially, to prevent obsolescence. It is imperative that
solutions be found by establishing new organizational arrangements for
providing routine maintenance to ITI equipment and by increasing the funds for
operations and maintenance and investment. Additional finance might be derived
either through increased state/central budgetary alloc--,ons, higher fees,
reduced stipends, or donations from industry or other organizations, and
through increased revenues from production contracts with industry.
1.38      To date only 13% of the research activitics conducted by CSTARI on
vocational training were broadly focused on quality or pc.rforuiance issues.
Even the results of these studies have had limited documentation and
dissemination to practitioners. In addition. the ability to cope with the
processing demands of trade testing and certification due to the rapid
expansion of the NVTS over the recent years is problematic. There is a need to
redesign testing content and structures, and to computerize the entire trade
testing and certification system to stay abreast of changes in course content
and the increased volume of testing.
E. Government Sectoral Goals and Strategv
1.39      The GOI in 1985 issued a White Paper on education and training called
"Challenge to Education - A Policy Perspective" that resulted in a New
Education Policy in 1986. The Seventh and Eighth Five Year Plans will pursue
the long term educational goals of that policy, which include targeted growth,
increased relevance, and improved quality of and access to education and
training. The Government has chosen a two-pronged strategy of: (a) providing
universal access to a minimum level of basic education for the 6-14 age group
by 1995; and (b) producing the type and quality of skilled manpower required to
serve the changing needs of a growing industrial sector.
1.40      In the area of vocational training, the Gcvernment has prepared a
seven year (1988-1995) investment program spanning the remainder of the Seventh



- 12 -
and the Eighth Five Year Plan (1990-95) periods to moderniz, and restructure
the National Vocational Training System (NVTS). The major g,qls of the program
are to: (a) improve the quality and efficiency of basic skill development;
(b) increase program relevance by reorienting and expanding the NVTS through
the introduction of new courses and increased advanced skill training; and
(c) expand access for women to training for non-traditional trades.
F. Bank ExDerience in the Sector
1.41      Bank experience in the sector has been limited to a credit (Cr. 342-
IN) of US$ 12 million in FY73 for support of university-level agricultural
education in New Delhi, Bihar, and Assam. The project was implemented over 10
years, compared with 7 years planned at appraisal, due to: late appointment of
staff, shortage of construction materials, and price disputes with contractors.
The completion report recommended better institutional assessment, more
explicit statement of project objectives, and increased realism in setting
conditionality.k/ Apart from the work done on the project noted above, the
Bank and Lhe Government have had limited discussions concerning education and
training over the last decade.
G. Bank Sector Strategv
1.42      The GOI requested Bank support for financing the NVTS investment
program oi the MOL. The Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD) is also
discussing with the Bank Group possible assistance for technical education. In
:-esponse to the Government',s interest in the Bank Group's involvement in the
sector, the Bank Group: (a) has drafted an internal sector strategy note;
(b) appraised and negotiated this proposed project; (c) has undertaken an
identification/preparation mission for a technical education project; and
(d) carried out sub-sectoral studies cn education and training in connection
with the FY89 Country Economic Memorandum on human resources development in
India. The Bank's sector strategy at this time is to: (a) assist in the high
priority area of vocational-technical education; and (b) build our knowledge
and involvement in primary education by carrying out a collab-rative sector
work program.
H. Rationale for Involvement in the Prop sed Project
1.43      Bank involvement will provide an entry point for Bank collaboration
in education and training. It will also promote industrial development by
supporting improvements in the quality, efficiency, and relevance of vocational
training and increasing access to modern sector skill training for women. High
rates of return to apprenticeship and craftsmen training support further
investments in vocational training. From a distributional and employment-
generation point of view, these investments are also well-justified, as
ik/ See Project Performance Audit Report: India-First Educational Project
(Credit 342-IN), Report No. 5668, May 23, 1985.



- 13 -
trainees at these levels tend to come from the lower income groups.Z/ Without
the project, the Government would probably be slower to implement the pzoposed
program, less likely to develop and apply criteria ',r State participation, and
less economical in the procurement of equipment. Moreover, it would probably
also give less attention to improving women's skills and participation rates,
as well as to the difficult issues of the long-term sustainability of
investments in vocational training, especially in the areas of recurrent
finance for equipment maintenance, and incentive systems for retaining high
quality instructors.  The project will also have a substantial impect on the
quality, relevance, financing, and accreditation of private ITIs. Finally, the
project fits in well with the Bank Group's country strategy which is to promote
industrial and agricultural growth and help raise the level of development of
India's human resources.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
2.1       In 1983, with the assistance of ILO, the DGET prepared a proposal for
expansion and continued external financing of an earlier UNDP-ILO project in
advanced vocational training. However, that proposal received little support
from the GOI and donor community, as the Government placed little priority on
the education and training sector at that time. In mid-1987 the DGET
substantially revised the earlier proposal. After preliminary discussions with
the Bank's Resident Mission, the GOI presented the bank with an informal
project brief outlining several schemes to support the National Vocational
Trai;.ing System (NVTS). The Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), Ministry of
Finance, subsequently confirmed that the GOI was interested in obtaining Bank
financing for the implementation of this program. Agreement was reached during
an October 1987 Bank identification mission that the DGET would begin
preparation of a detailed project request. The project was subsequently
ippraised in November 1988 and negotiated in Februdry 1989.
B. Project Obiectives and Summary Description
2.2       Objectives.  The project will support the _..aplementation of the MOL's
long-term program to modernize and restructure the NVTS. The primary
objectives will be to: (a) improve the quality and efficiency of craftsman and
apprenticeship training; (b) expand the scope and relevance of the advanced
skills training programs; (c) strengthen the planning and management capacity
7/ A UNESCO study reported that about 92% of the ITI graduates surveyed came
from families with a monthly income lower than the average per capita
income in the country. Studies in Bombay and Cochin in 1984/85 showed that
about half of ex-I7I trainees have come from homes where the father is an
agriculturist, or works in non-gazetted jobs, while about 60% of ex-ITI
trainees' parents earned less than Rs 2,100 at a time when national per
capita income was about Rs 2,400.



- 14 -
for vocational training at central and State levels. Special attention will be
given to the training of females in all of these areas. The planned impact of
the project is shown in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1    PRESENT AND PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS IN VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Post Project
Key Issue           Present Condition                Condition
Obsolete and poorly   - Average age of equip-        Replacement of obsolete
maintained equip-         ment is 15 yrs. old        equipment in up to 400 ITIs
ment
: - Inadequate mainte-        - Establishment of a national
*  nance system                equipment maintenance system
- Specialized maintenance
training will be provided to
550 staff
Inadequate trade       - Basic training is         - An additional 34 apprentice-
coverage under           currently offered in        able trades will be intro-
basic training            only 65 of the 139         duced in Basic Training
courses                  apprenticeable trades       Programs
Insufficient           - Nearly 85% of ITIs        - Provision of audio visual
instructional            have no audio-visual        aids and equipment to about
materials                aids and equipment          400 ITIs
Low access to voca-   - Women comprise less        - Create up to 100 new womens'
tional training for      than 25% of total           ITIs/wings increasing train-
women, particularly       enrollment in voca-        ing capacity by about 9,000
in modern sector         tional train.ng             per annum in 22 trades
advanced skill            institutions
areas                : - Current capacity to       - New advanced trade offerings
:   train women is about       for an additional annual
:   17,000 in 230 ITIs         capacity of 3,010 women
in 18 trades
: - Only 9 Instructor        - Instructor training offered
:   training centers for       for 16 trades in 4 new cen-
:  women                        ters with annual capacity
of 656 female instructors



- 15 -
Post Project
Key Issue          Present Condition               Condition
Insufficient train- : - About 10,000 persons    - About 22,000 would be train-
ing capacity for ad-:   currently trained      :  ed per annum in 40 centers
vanced skill train- :  per annum in 22 AVTS  : - Establishment of a high tech
ing programs        : - Inadequate in-service :  training center to offer in-
:  advanced training in  :  service training and instruc-
:  electronics, compu-   :  tor training in emerging high
:  ters and rototics      :  tech fields
Inadequate instruc- : - Insufficient instruc- : - Training of an additional
tional staff for    :  tor training capa-    :  7,000 instructors during the
advanced training   :  city to stay abreast  :  life of the project
programs                of expansion of AVTS  : - Establishment of linkages to
:  training               :  industry to employ part-time
instructors
Poor linkages be-   : - Insufficient number   : - Industrial Liaison officers
tween industry and  :  of placement officers :  assigned for about 400 ITIs
training                at ITI                   - Increase numbers of local
: - Local industrial ad-      industry advisory boards to
:  visory boards for      :  about 400 ITIs
:  limited number of
.  ITIs
Outmoded management,: - Management informa-   : - Introduction of computerized
planning and super- :  tion system current-  :  monitoring and evaluation
visory techniques   :  ly to DGET level only       system to S;:ate level in 18
and procedures                                     States
Limited access to   : - Fewer than 5% of all  : - Additional 31,500 staff days
management training :  ITI principals have   :  of 'anagement training for
particularly at      :  received training      :  vocational training personnel
supervision and ITI :                          :  for DGET to ITI level
principal level
Theoretical and        - Only about 13% of all : - Improved capacity to conduct
irrelevant research     research concerns      :  research on vocational train-
on vocational        :  quality or perform-   :  ing and financing of 3-5
training                ance issues            :  major studies
Delays in trade        - Insufficient techni-    - Improved, computerized trade
test processing     :  cal capacity to con-        test/certification processes
:  duct trade testing/
certification



- 16 -
2.3       The project will provide for:
(a) Modernizing the Craftsman and ARRrenticeshiR Training Programs
(Pro2osed Outlay USS324.6 I/ million):
(i)  an integrated package of inputs consisting of: the replacement
and modernization of workshop equipment, the introduction of new
trades, the upgrading of instructors, and modern instructional
materials and audio-visual equipment in about 400 ITIs;
(ii) a comprehensive maintenance and repair capability for workshop
equipment at about 19 State ITIs, 6 regional maintenance centers
and 100 equipment maintenance cells at larger ITIs;
(iii)  expansion of the pilot post-ITI training for self-employment
program in about 100 ITIs;
(iv) creation of 24 new BTCs and 44 RICs in trades and theoretical
areas where apprenticeship training is currently deficient;
(v)  construction of about 100 new women's ITIs/wings;
(vi) introduction of about 18 new trades in non-traditional areas in
about 72 existing women's ITIs/wings;
(vii)  construction of four new women's RVTIs for training instructors;
and
(viii)  equipment and technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of
the curriculum and methods development wing of the NVTI.
(b) Expanding Advanced Training Programs (Proposed Outlay USS74.0
million)
(i)  introduction of about 17 nLew trades at the advanced skills level
in exis.ing RVTIs and the NVTI;
(ii) upgrading facilities and equipment in about 34 ITIs where
advanced training would be provided;
(iii) extension of advanced skill offerings and related equipment in
eight existing ATIs and ths NVTI; and
(iv) construction and equipment of one High Technology Training
Center for electronics, computers and robotics.
t/ This and subsequent outlay figures represent totals including
contingencies.



- 17 -
(c) Improving NVTS Planning. Management and SuDervision (Proposed Outlay
USS31.2 million)
(i) equipment and technical assistance to develop NVTS project
management capability;
(ii) equipment and technical assistance to strengthen the NVTS
monitoring and evaluation system;
(iii!  data processing equipment and facilities for improving trade
testing, certification and documentation;
(iv) equipment and facilities, and technical assistance for
strengthening the women's training unit at the DGET; and
(v) equipment, technical assistance, and operational funding for
NVTS management and supervisory training, and conducting a mid-
term review of project progress and related studies on
vocational education.
2.4       The project investments will be linked with measures to be taken in
four key areas. First, steps will be taken to improve the incentive system for
instructors, particularly for the advanced skill areas. Second, the links
between training institutions and industry will be strengthened through the
establishment of local level advisory boards and industry liaison officers for
each project-assisted institution. Third, the DCET will establish, provide
adequate budget for, and implement an equipment maintenance system. Finally,
the DGET will develop and implement a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
system as part of an enhanced management information system for vocational
traini lg.
C. Detailed Proiect DescriRtion
2.5       Project Description.  The project is national in scope and will be
implemented under the overall direction of the DGET.  .ne DGET will be solely
responsible for implementing the central training schemes covering the adv3nced
skill training areas and CSTARI management and instructor training programs.
These represent about 40% of the project investments. The States will be
responsible for implementing the ITI modernization scheme under the guidance of
the DGET, which accounts for about 60% of proposed investments. In addition,
about 80% of the ITIs assisted under the project will be located in 15 large
states. All major procurement will be conducted in a centrally guided manner
under the auspices of the DGET with appropriate representation from the States.



- 18 -
The project will include the following specific components:
Modernizing the Craftsman and A=Drenticeship Training Program
(Proposed Outlay USS324.6 million) i/
2.6       Improving ITI Ouality and Relevance.  This component will address the
critical need to modernize and improve the quality of the NVTS by upgrading and
developing the capacity of about 400 ITIs. Twenty-six of these ITIs are
operated by the private sector. These 400 ITIs represent about 20% of the
total number of ITIs. About 80% will be distributed among 10 States and Union
Territories. These ITIs have already been selected on the basis of a
comprehensive survey utilizing the following criteria: (a) condition and
requirement of equipment; (b) access and student demand; (c) employment demand;
(d) ITI performance; and (e) existing resource availability. This survey was
reviewed and the selection criteria approved by the Bank Group during pre-
appraisal.
2.7       Bank/IDA assistance will support the provision of an integrated
package of inputs consisting of: the replacement and modernization of priority
workshop equipment, the introduction of new trades, the upgrading of
instruction through the training of instructors, and the introduction of modern
instructional materials and audio-visual equipment. The project will establish
a comprehensive maintenance and repair capability for workshop equipment at the
ITI rnd regional levels. Limited support for the expansion of the pilot post-
ITI training for self-employment program will also be included in the project.
This latter program encompasses additional training in business management
skills with access to credit, and continuing technical assistance for those ITI
graduates who intend to pursue self-employment in such areas as electronic
equipment service and repair. These points are discussed below.
2.8       A key factor in the capacity of these ITIs to provide acceptable
standards of training is the lack of adequate capability to maintain and repair
workshop equipment. One equipment maintenance and. repair workshop will be
established at a nodal ITI in each of the larger 19 participating states to
undertake major repairs and reconditioning of machine tools. Regional
maintenance service centers will be established at six ATIs to establish plans,
guidelines and procedures for equipment maintenance sy tems, develop training
curriculum, and to conduct training of maintenance cell and regional workshop
personnel (see Chart 4, Organizational Structure of Equipment Maintenance
System). Equipment maintenance cells will be established at 100 of the larger
ITIs selected. These will install new equipment and provide ongoing repairs,
preventive maintenance and maintenance training throughout the NVTS. The
maintenance training function will have an outreach program to assist
surrounding smaller ITIs without maintenance cells to install new equipment and
to introduce preventive maintenance training courses as a normal part of the
ITI curriculum. Each equipment maintenance cell will include required
equipment, staff appointments, staff training and budgets. The proposed
9/   This and subsequent statements represent totals including
contingencies.



- 19 -
-roject will provide civil works, equipment, and fellowship training. It is
expected that about 550 trainees will complete specialized maintenance training
in the above institutions. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that the equipment maintenance system will be adequately funded and maintained
throughout the life of the project.
2.9       Instructor training will be enhanced through the development of Media
Resource Centers (MRCs) at 10 existing vocational teacher training institutes,
7 ATIs, 1 CTI, 1 National Vocational Training Institute (NVTI), and 1 Regional
Vocational Training Institute (RVTI). The focus of these institutes will be on
the direct training of instructors and the training of trainers in
instructional methods and content of newly introduced courses for other ATIs
and RVTIs. Modern audio-visual aids and equipment will also be provided.
Fellowsnip training will be provided for MRC staff and principals of
participating ITI and ATI staff. Allowances for training of instructors from
the selected ITIs and other training institutions will be provided under the
project. It is expected that about 3,000 instructors will be trained during
the life of the project. The institutional arrangements linking software
development (CIMI and CSTARI), instructor training (MRC) and actual use in ITI
instruction referred to above is depicted in Chart 5.
2.10      New trades relevant to the changing technology, skill requirements,
and employment potential of local industries will be introduced in selected
ITIs. These criteria were used in the recent ITI survey (para 2.06) to
determine the trades as well as ITIs to be assisted under this subcomponent of
the project. About 34 new trades in about 200 ITIs meeting these criteria were
identified. The proposed project will provide equipment, buildings,
incremental staff salaries and training materials for the introduction of new
trades such as electronics, computers and plastics. In addition, in order to
assure strong linkages between industry and training, the Government provided
assurances during negotiations that it will continue the policy of establishing
local level advisory boards and the appointment of industry liaison officers
for each ITI assisted under the project.
2.11      Due to extreme competition for employment in the formal industrial
sector, job placement statistics for recent ITI graduates suggest that
alternate tracks for employment in the informal sectoi are common. In
response, the DGET is now conducting on a pilot basis post-ITI training for
self-employment in electronic trades in 86 ITIs in collaboration with the
Department of Electronics. Directly resulting from the success of this pilot,
the DGET will pilot additional post-ITI self-employment training programs in
other occupational areas such as scooter repair, office equipment maintenance,
and pump repair, in about 100 ITIs. This program will offer specialized
courses in business management as well as the technical skill required for the
specific enterprise. The ITI will provide technical backup to the trainee in
establishing and developing his/her enterprise. The proposed project will
provide training, equipment, materials and honoraria to support this program.
It is expected that the duration of training will be from 3 to 6 months and
a1out 9,000 persons will be trained during the life of the project.



- 20 -
2.12      Strengthening the ADvrenticeshiR Training Scheme.  The purpose of
this sub-component is to increase the number of available apprenticeship trade
offerings by creating additional facilities for apprenticeship training (See
para 1.11 and Annex 3 for more details on the apprenticeship scheme). The
intention is to create 24 Basic Training Centers (BTCs) to provide practical
training in trades where training facilities do not currently exist, and to
establish 44 Related Instruction Centers (RICs) to provide theoretical
instruction related to apprenticeship training. Some of the BTCs and RICs will
be new sites, while others will be located on existing ITI premises. Six of
the BTCs will be in the central sector and the remaining 18 will be located in
various states selected on the basis of the number of apprentices in each state
and the concentration of industries. Six RICs will be located in the central
sector and 38 in the states based on the criterion of one center per 3,000
utilized apprenticeship seats. The centers will be staffed by part-time
teachers with engineering and technology diplomas. Incremental staff salaries,
equipment, instructional materials, furniture, equipment and fellowships will
bi provided under the proposed project. It is expected that 7,800 apprentices
will be added to the existing capacity of 131,500 apprentices as a direct
result of the creation of the new BTCs and RICs each year. About 10,500
additional trainees will undergo basic training and 105,000 related instruction
during the life of the proposed project.
2.13      Developing Modern Sector Women's Training Programs.  This sub-
component will increase access for women to modern industrial training,
particularly in non-traditional trades in such areas as computers, electronics,
civil and mechanical drafting, and instrument repair. The project will provide
assistance for the introduction of new trades and the establishment of new
institutions for women.
2.14      New trades in non-traditional areas, technical libraries and resource
centers will be introduced in about 72 existing ITIs or wings of ITIs for women
in about 18 States. By the end of the project, establishment of the new trade
offerings will provir'e an additional annual training capacity of 3,010 seats in
18 trades. Included in each new ITI will be placement cells to facilitate
employment of graduates and technical libraries. It is estimated that the
introduction of new trades will require four instructional staff and one
placement officer and technical librarian for each con erned ITI.
2.15      About 100 new ITMs for women will be constructed in 15 States.  These
new training institutions will provide an additional annual training capacity
of 9,184 seats in 22 trades, thus increasing the enrollment of women in ITIs
from the current level of about 5% to about 10%. Trades to be offered include
one-and two-year courses and respond to expanding employment opportunities for
women in the industrial, services and self-employment sectors and in domestic
employment industries.
2.16      To provide greater opportunities for advanced skills training and
instructor training for women, four new Regional Vocational Institutes (RVTI)
will be established under the project. By the end of the project, the total
number of RVTIs will increase from 8 to 12 with locations in 12 States. The
RVTIs are operated by the DGET and provide women ITI graduates with increased



- 21 -
opportunity for advarced training in trade skills and instructional methods.
Coupled with the NVTI in New Delhi, the RVTIs are a primary source of
instructors for women's ITIs. By the end of the project, the 4 new RVTIs will
provide training in about 16 trades with an annual training capacity of 656
seats.   Under this sub-component, the 4 new RVTIs will provide training for a
total of 992 trainees. Staffing requirements for the new RVTIs include one
principal, about 17 instructional staff, one placement officer and 25 support
staff. The increased demand for approximately 68 instructional staff will be
met through recent and future graduates of instructor training programs
conducted by the NVTI and graduates from ATIs under the N1iTS. The project will
also introduce a total of 17 new trades at the advanced skills level in
existing RVTls and the NVTI in New Delhi. By the end of the project, this sub-
component will provide additional annual training capacity of 632 seats or
approximately 70 additional seats in each institution. Staffing requirements
for new trades in the RVTIs and NVTI include eight instructional staff and four
support staff for each institution. This sub-component will also strengthen
the capacity of the Curriculum and Methods Development Wing at the NVTI to
support increased demands for new training curricula and instructional
materials by adding staff, office equipment and facilities.
2.17      The increased demand for instructional staff for women's training
programs will be met by recent and future graduates of ATIs. Additional staff,
including management and personnel for the Curriculum and Methods Development
Wing of the NVTI, workshop attendants, and support personnel, will be provided
from existing NVTS training institutions. Necessary curricula and
instructional materials will be provided by the Curriculum and Methods
Development Wing of the NVTI, the RVTIs and other training institutes under the
NVTS. Project inputs for this component will include civil works, equipment,
incremental staff salaries, and raw materials.
Expanding Advanced Training Programs (Proposed Outlay USS74.0 million)
2.18      Expansion of AVTS.  The Advanced Vocational Training System (AVTS)
was introduced in 1977, following a successful pilot project undertaken with
the assistance of UNDP/ILO in 1971. Six Advanced Training Institutes (ATIs)
have since been set up offering instructor training programs and short term
modular courses for the in-service upgrading and updL.cing skilled workers and
technicians. Additional AVT. facilities have been created in 16 ITIs and the
total capacity for AVTS training is now approximately 10,000 seats. The AVTS
(ATIs and ITIs) have to date provided in-service training for 65,000 industrial
workers. The AVTS concept has been well received and its expansion and
extension has been requested by industry.
2.19      The long term objective of this sub-component is to provide training
facilities in critical skill areas affecting the quality and quantity of
industrial production. The ATIs will offer standard and tailor made courses
designed to meet the needs of particular industries. This sub-component will
also provide support for the institutional and staff development needs
associated with the long-term identification of needs and the provision of
training to suit the needs of industry. The proposed project will modernize 34
ITIs where Advanced Skill Training facilities will be developed. Fifteen of



- 22 -
these centers are already operating AVTS courses but with inadequate
facilities; the AVTS will be introduced to the other 19 centers for the first
time. The project will also ectend the use of the AVTS in six ATIs in order to
enable the centers to offer new advanced skill courses. The number of
additional persons trained under the AVTS will increase from 1,700 in 1989-90
to approximately 22,000 in 1994-95. Instructors will be drawn from existing
ATIs, larger, more advanced ITIs, and industry (on a part-time basis).
Instructional staff will be recruited and receive training early in the
project. The scheme will also strengthen the management of the AVTS to enable
it to expand into the additional 40 centers. The Government has given
preference to 28 centers selected by the States and funded from the States' own
resources. Centers have been identified based on criteria of numbers of ITIs
and known needs for advanced course&. Inputs necessary to implement this
sub-component will be provided by the proposed project, including incremental
staff salaries and related costs, equipment, consumable materials, civil works,
and fellowships.
2.20      Development of High Technology Training.  The objective of this
sub-component is to produce trained personnel with the range of skills
necessary to meet the requirements of industry, commerce and domestic consumers
in the application of electronics, computers and the modern production system.
The Goverrment envisages the introduction of training programs in 19 existing
training institutions (ATIs/ITIs) and the establishm3nt of an Apex Training
Institute for high technology areas. Programs will be progressive, starting at
fundamental level in the ITIs, rising to basic level in ATIs, and then to
specialized level in the Apex Institute. This modular approach to the progtams
should ensure that trainees build upon a broad skill base and will allow for
more specialized programs to be added as and when technological changes
introduce new methods, practices and procedures.
2.2       Programs in modern production technology cover the skill areas of
fitting and maintenance, computer aided design, computer aided manufacturing,
Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machine operation for turning and milling,
fine blanking and plastic processing in the fields of automation technology,
industrial engineering and production technology. These programs are intended
for occupational areas such as industrial mechanics, technical service
personnel, metal cutting mechanics and tool mechanic . Programs in the
electronics and computer fields will cover the basic electronics course, a
bridg4ng course in digital techniques and basic computers, basic courses in
domestic electronics (including microprocessors and computers), industrial
electronics and communications electronics, and specialized courses in
programmable logic control, robotics control, computerized control, peripheral
equipment, data communication, automatic measuring systems, small computers,
office machines and auto-electronics. These programs are intended to produce
highly skilled staff in the areas of machine and process control, computer
applications, computer maintenance and repair, and the maincenanc6 and repair
of eiectrical/electronic systems of modern vehicles. Instructors will be
identified early during project implementation and provided short-term training
overseas. Industrial links will be insured through the development of local
level advisory committees comprising industrial associations and Government for
the ATI and High Tech programs. Industry will be further encouraged to provide



- 23 -
part-time instructors and technical services as well as to pay for the costs of
training. This sub-component will finance the following inputs: incremental
staff salaries, equipment, consumable materials, civil 'forks for construction
of a national cente., furniture and audio-visual equipment, fellowships, and
technical assistance.
ImDroving NVTS Planning. Management. and Supervision (Proposed Outlay USS31.2
million)
2.22      Strengthening Project Management.  To assist in strengthening the
capacity for planning and managing central investments, project management
units will be created in the DGET and State Directorates. The Central Unit at
the DGET will be responsible for overall coordir.ation and liaison with the
Association, and will also administer all centrally sponsored schemes in
collaboration with the States. Depending on the scope of work, each of the
State units will be organized in sections, adequately staffed to deal with: (a)
procurement of equipment and materials; (b) contracting and monitoring of
progress of civil works with assistance from the Ministry of Public Works cr
consultants, if necessary; (c) administration and bookkeeping of project
expenditures; (d) management of training and technical assistance activities;
.-:.4 (e) general administration of the Unit. The project will provide
incremental s_aff salaries, equipment, operational support and staff training
for the Units.   Each state particizating in the project will maintain a State
Project Implementation Unit. During Negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that it would maintain the Central Project Implementation Unit
during the life of the project, at a staffing level acceptable to the Bank
Group, to coordinate, monitor and supervise the project.
2.23      Establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation System.  Monitoring and
evaluation of ongoing DGET programs is now spread across a number of
operational units at the Central and State levels. To effectively implement
the large scale restructuring of the NVTS it will be necessary to regularly and
continuously monitor training inputs, processes, and outcomes (see Annex 7,
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators). Toward that end, the project will
assist in strengthening monitoring and evaluation units in each State/UT and at
the DGET headquarters. The ongoing monitoring and evaluation system operated
by DGET will collect information on capital and recuirent costs of project-
assisted ITIs, various types and levels of project-assisted training programs
and data related to their financing. It will also facilitate the tracing of
employment outcomes of training programs under the project over time (para
5.2c). The project will provide incremental salaries for additional staff,
training, expert services and data processing equipment related to
strengthening monitoring and evaluation.
2.24      Improving Testing. Certification and Documentation.  With the
expansion of the All India trade tests from three schemes to eight schemes over
the recent years, the sheer volume of work at the DGET test and certification
unit has expanded dramatically, while the staff strength,
equipment and office facilities have remained static (para 1.31). It is
therefore necessary to expand and modernize the administrative apparatus for
testing and certification by increasing staff levels and providing modern data



- 24 -
processing equipment and facilities. In addition to strengthening test item
bank development and validation procedures and improving the efficiency of
examination scoring, certification issuance and recording, a documentation wing
will be established at the DGET. This wing will maintain computerized data
based on specialized material from DCET library holdings, research abstracts,
and other key documentation with relevance to vocational training. It will
serve as a kind of information clearing-house on vocational training for the
nation, facilitating a network for communication throughout the country. The
proposed project will provide facilities, equipment, incremental staff salaries
and fellowship training to support this sub-component.
2.25      Strengthening of DGET Women's Vocational Training Winjg. This sub-
component will provide the Women's Vocational Training Wing at the DGET with
the capacity to provide more effective planning, direction, control and
monitoring of the women's training delivery system. This sub-component will
also develop the capacity of the Women's Vocational Training Wing to prepare
and disseminate policies and programs to promote greater participation by women
in apprenticeship training, to increase opportunities for participation in
entrepreneurial training programs, and to cr-ate greater public awareness of
the increased opportunities for women in the NVTS. The project inputs for this
sub-component include incremental salaries, equipment and furniture, and
overseas fellrwship training for key staff.
2.26      Re-orienting the Central Staff Training and Research Institute
(CSTARI). The proposed project will assist CSTARI in developing tho
organizational and professional capacity to focus its research, problem solving
and staff development activities on the following areas within the NVTS:
(a) performance evaluation and improvement systems; (b) management,
organization and staff perioimance; (c) equipment maintenance, facility
planning, and utilization cf training institutions; (d) linkages with industry;
and (e,' action research and dissemination programs (see Chart 6, CSTARI
Organizational Structure). It is expected that CSTARI will provide substantial
staff training during the life of the project to meet these aims (Annex 6,
Table 8)
2.27      Mid-term Project Review and SRecial Studies.  The project will
support a mid- erm review of project progress and fot related studies during
the life of the project. The general purpose of this sub-component is three-
fold: (a) to build an improved database as part of a comprehensive management
information system in order to enhance the planning, budgeting and policy
formulation functions of the NCVT and the DGET; (b) to serve as a basis for
building research capacity on vocational training in CSTARI, the NVTI and the
RVTIs, and (c) to serve as a data source for a mid-term review of project
progress. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that no later
than December 31, 1994, a mid-term review of project progress will be
undertaken and furnished to the Bank Group under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank Group with a view to identifying any impcrmentation problems and
actions required to strengthen the subsequent execution of the Project.  The
mid-term review would take into account the output of the monitoring and
evaluation system as well as the findings and recommendations of the studies
carried out under the Project prior to the mid-term review.



- 25 
2.28      The studies will help to enhance the research capability of CSTARI,
NVTI and the RVTIs while simultaneously conducting applied research to improve
the efficiency and effectiveness of the overall training system. The proposed
studies are: (a) an evaluation of the self-employment scheme; (b) a tracer
study of ITI certificate holders into the labor market; (c) a study of quality
and efficiency of ITI instruction; and (d) a review of accreditation standards
and application, with particular reference to managing the growth and quality
of public and private ITIs. The topics were chosen on the basis of particular
area.i in which further knowledge and insight could contribute to improving the
overa;l performance of the vocational training system. To strengthen CSTARI,
and th- NVTI and RVTIs, and to conduct the above studies, the project will
finance: (a) technical assistance; (b) overseas fellowship training of staff;
and (c) equipment. At negotiations the Government provided outlines for the
studies to be condvcted under the project for the review and comment of the
Bank Group. The Government also provided assurances at negotiations that the
following studies will be undertaken under terms of reference and an action
plan agreed by the Bank Group: (i) an evaluation of the self-employment.
scheme no later than December 31, 1994; (ii) a tracer study of ITI certificate
holders into the labor market no later than September 30, 1995; (iii) a sample
study of I';I instruction no later than December 31, 1994; and (iv) a study of
the application of accreditation standards in selected ITIs no later than July
31, 1995.
2.29      Technical Assistance.  In order to facilitate techaology transfer for
the various project components, about 619 person/months of foreign fellowship
training and 198 person/months of foreign and about 456 person/months of
domestic expert services are included in the project. A detailed breakdown and
rationale for these services are included in Annex 9. The principal
assumptions guiding the technical assistance are: (a) foreign training and
expert services will not be a substitute for available domestic competence; (b)
foreign expert services will work in conjunction with domestic experts to
provide context and translatior of new knowledge and applications to the Indian
environment; and (c) knowledge and experience gained through foreign fellDwship
training will be institutionalized and disseminated through follow-up of
locally designed training programs.



26 -
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
Summary of Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project, including taxes and contingencies, is
estimated at Rs 6,877.9 million or US$429.8 million equivalent. The estimated
costs by project component and category of expenditure are summarized below in
Tables 3.1 and 3.2. Detailed costs are presented in Annex 8.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
For-                      For-              a ai
Local    eign   Total        Local  eign  Total   Base
-------Rs million------       ----US$ million---  cost
A. Modernizing the
craftsman and
apprenticeship
training program   3,079.8   646.2  3,726.0        210.9  44.3  225.2    76
B. Expanding advanced
training programs    568.0   257.7    825.7         38.9  17.6   56.6    17
C. Improving NVTS
planning manage-
ment & supervision   280.8    75.0    355.8         19.2   5.1   24.4       7
rotal Base Costs   3.928.6   978.9  4.907.5        269.1  67.0  336.1   100
Contingencies
Phys'cal              436.9   105.7    542.6        29.9   7.2   37.2    11
Price               1,162.8   265.0  1,427.8        45.7  10.7   56.5    17
Total  b'           5.528.3 1.349.6  6.877.9       344.7  85.0  429.8   128
a/ Refer to US$ figures. All figures are rounded.
L/ Includes Rs 539 million (U$33.9 million equivalent) in taxes and duties.



-27 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
For-                      For-           % /
Local    eign   Total        Local  eign  Total   Base
-------Rs million . .         ----US$ million---   cost
Equipment:
Standard        1,933.0   593.8  2,526.8       132.4  40.7  173.1    51
high Tech         172.0   210.2    382.3        11.8  14.4   26.2    11
Books              18.8      3,3     22.1        1.3   0.2    1.5       0
Furniture               19.2      3.4      22.6        1.3   0.2    1.5      0
Civil works and
related pro-
fessional services   440.5    77.7    518.2         30.2   5.3   35.5    11
Training:
Domestic          150.1      7.9    158.0       10.3   0.5   10.8       3
Overseas            4.5    40.7      45.2        0.3   2.8    3.1       1
Specialist services:
Local              15.3       -      15.3        1.0    -      1.0      0
Foreign             5.8    23.1      28.9        0.4   1.6    2.0       2
Honoraria              110.4       -      110.4        7.6    -      7.6     2
Miscellaneous           40.8      2.1      42.9        2.8   0.1    2.9      1
Incremental Salaries  702.4        -      702.4      48.1    -    48.1    14
Incremental
Maintenance           188.6      9.9    198.5       12.9   0.7   13.6       4
Travel/Daily             0.3       -        0.3       0.02   -      0.02    0
AllowanceE
Consumable Materials  126.9       6.7    133.5        8.;   0.5    9.1       3
Total Base Costs    3.928.6   978.9  4.907.5        269.1  67.0  336.1   100
Contingencies:
Physical          436.9   105.7    542.6        29.9   7.2   37.2    11
Price           1,i62.8   265.0  1,427.8        45.7  10.7   56.5    17
Tot.l ]J            5.528.3 1.349.6  6.877.9       344.7  85.2  429.8   128
a/ Refer to US$ figures only. All figures are rounded.
h/ Includes Rs 539 million (US$33.9 million equivalent) in taxes and duties.



- 28 -
Cost Estimates
3.2       Base Costs and Contingencies.  Base costs are expressed in October
1988 pricos. Civil works costs were based on standard Public Works Department
(PWD) unit costs. Building proposals for the various components were designed
on standard area allocations for the various activities developed by the DGET.
Equipment costs were based on detailed lists and on prices of similar imported
or locally available items. Books and instructional materials were based on
similar items recently procured in eeacation projects in neighboring countries
in the region.  Overseas short-terr_ .raining was estimated at US$5,000 per
staff-month and domestic training at US$300 per staff-month. Costs of foreign
and local experts were estimated on the basis of recent experience in India.
Physical contingencies (US$37.4 million) represent 11% of base costs. Price
contingencies are US$56.5 million or 17% of US$ base costs (29% of Rs base
costs). These contingencies were estimated on the basis of the implementation
schedule and expected annual price increases as follows: local - 8% for
1989-90, 7% for 1990/91 to 1992/93, and 6.5% for subsequent years; foreign -
5.3% for 1989/90, 5% for 1990/91 and 4.1% for subsequent years. Total
contingencies represent about  8% of US$ base costs, or 40% of Rs base costs.
3.3       Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
are estimated at ebout Rs 1,349.6 million (US$85 million equivalent). Based on
detailed analysis of expenditures of other projects in India, the foreign
exchange component for the major categories was estimated as follows: (a) civil
works and furniture 15%; (b) equipment 29% (24% for domestic equipment and
about 5'5% for imported equipment (local costs of imported items include
estimated import duties of about 50%); (c) books and educational materials 15%;
(d) local training 5%; (e) overseas training 90%; and (f) foreign specialist
services 80%.
3.4       Taxes and Duties.  Identifiable taxes and duties were estimated at
about Rs 539 million (US$33.9 million equivalent), and were based on current
practice of value added tax on civil works and goods contracts (ranging from 3%
to 6%), and duties on imported goods (minimum of 50%, on imported high tech
items), representing the major portion of the above estimates. The Government
will finance all taxes and duties.
B. Financing
Investment Costs
3.5       A loan of US$30 million and a credit of US$250 million equivalent
will finance 70% of the estimated costs of about US$429.8, net of taxes and
duties of about US$33.9 million. Together, the central and State governments
will finance the remaining US$149.8 million (35% of total costs) of which the
Center will finance about $94.8 million of project investments (including
contingencies) representing central schemes and centrally sponsored schemes on
a 50-50 matching grant basis with the States. The share of the States will be
about US$55.0 million (including contingencies).



- 29 -
3.6       The financing plan by category of expenditure is presented below in
Table 3.3.
Table3.3L:  FINANCING PLAN
Government  /               /
of India    IBRD/IDA      Total       % IBRD/IDA
----------US$ million-- -------    Financing
Equipment: f./
Standard                 48.7       146.2          194.9         75
High Tech                13.9         16.8          30.7         55
Books                     0.4          1.4           1.8         80
Furniture                      0.7          1.0            1.7        60
Civil works and related
professional services       16.2         24.3          40.5         60
Training:
Domestic                   -          12.8          12.8        100
Overseas                   -           3.4           3.4        100
Specialist services:
Local                      -           1.2           1.2        100
Foreign                    -           2.2           2.2        100
Miscellaneous                  1.7          1.8            3.5        50
Incremental Salaries          27.7         30.1          57.8         52
Incremental Maintenance       16.5           -            16.5         0
IA/DA Allowances and
Honoraria                    4.5          4.6           9.1         50
Consumable Materials           4.4          6.6           11.0        60
Total Base Costs        134.7       252.4          387.1         64
Unallocated 4/                15.1         27.6           42.7        65
Total                   149.8        280.0         429.8         65
a/  Totals represent total estimated costs per categLry including price
contingencies.
_/  Including estimated import duties and taxes financed by GOI.
c/  Unallocated funds are the physical contingencies plus price contingencies
on physical contingencies.
d/  Includes State shares.
3.7       Financing of the vocational training program during the project
implementation period will consist of two types of schemes: (a) central
schemes, financed entirely by the central Government; and (b) centrally
sponsored schemes, where investment costs are shared equally by the central
Government and the respective state Governments. After project completion,
recurrent costs for the central schemes will be borne entirely by the central
Government, while recurrent costs for the centrally sponsored schemes will be



- 30 -
borne entirely by the respective state Governments. Central schemes represent
about 22.5% of total project costs, and centrally sponsored schemes, about
77.5%. This implies that the central Government will be responsible for about
62% of total project costs (including central schemes plus half the cost of
centrally sponsorec schemes), while state Governments will be responsible for
about 38% of total project costs.
Recurrent Expenditures
3.8       Additional annual recurrent expenditures generated by 1996/97, the
year after project completion, are estimated at about Rs 320 million, or about
US$21.9 million, in constant 1988 prices. About Rs 90 million (US$6.2 million)
will be borne by the central Government, and about Rs 230 million (US$15.7
million) by the respective state governments, representing about 4% of
estimated annual non-plan expenditures for the Ministry of Labor, and about 3%
of estimated aggregate state expenditures on labor and labor welfare for that
year. About 55% of estimated annual recurrent costs after project completion
consist of incremental salaries and honoraria, about 26% represents maintenance
of equipment, about 10% consumable materials, about 5% building maintenance,
and the remainder is distributed among miscellaneous items.
3.9       Considering the priority given to training for industrial
development, and the expenditures which have been made during the last three
years, the recurrent expenditures generated by the project are substantial, but
affordable. Given current overall pressures on state finances, generated
partly by the high growth of current expenditures, and given the financial
constraints facing state governments, some of whom are already curtailing
social service spending to service their debt, much greater attention needs to
be paid towards better planning and monitoring of expenditure. Toward that
aim, the DGET monitoring and evaluation system will collect information on the
capital and recurrent costs of project-assisted training and the financing of
that training. Those issues will also be addressed auring the mid-term review
of the project (para. 2.27).
C. Status of Project PreDaration
3.10      Proiect Management.  The DGET is already oj.rating a number of
schemes at different levels and a comprehensive network of institutions and
field offices are in operation. However, additional staff are being added to
existing divisions in the DGET and at State Directorates. A full plan for the
establishment of a special unit within the DGET to strengthen its capability to
manage the implementation of the project has been drawn up. The DGET is in the
process of finalizing staffing and physical needs for the smooth functioning of
such a unit. Similar steps are also be.ng taken at the State level to
strengthen State Directorates involved, and delineate working procedures,
relationships and responsibilities of concerned Government agencies and
institutions. At negotiations the Government identified key CPIU staff and
indicated they would be appointed by April 1, 1989.
3.11      Implementation Planning and Budgeting.  An overall implementation and
phasing plan for all project activities was prepared during appraisal.



- 31 -
Procurement plans for the first project year (1989/90) were reviewed during
negotiations.
3.12      Proiect  Sites.  The majority of project sites are at existing
facilities with adequate space for expansion. The Oovernment is currently
identifying and selecting sites for the new institutions (100 new ITIs for
women, 4 new RVTIs, and a High Technology Center), scheduled for construction
during the second project year. The GOI provided at negotiations: a plan for
the acquisition of sites for construction planned to take place in the second
year of implementation and beyond, (no new land is required in the first year),
and an operational plan for the high technology center, including overall plans
and schedules for site selection, civil works, equipment procurement, and
activities to be undertaken.
3.13      EiuiRment.  Standard equipment lists exist for ';he vocational trades.
The DGET is receiving assistance from the ILO to prepare a procurement plan for
the more sophisticated high technology items. At negotiations the Government
provided an equipment procurement plan for the ITI/AVTS components, including
equipment lists and an outline of proposed packaging and phasing of procurement
during the seven-year project implementation period, and standard bidding
documents (ICB and LCB) for all. items scheduled for procurement during the
first year of the project. A workshop on procurement by Resident Mission staff
was given to key staff and agencies in September 1988, during which a standare
bidding document for LCB was prepared. This document was reviewed by IDA and
found satisfactory. GOI also prepared a standard document for ICB whi"h was
reviewed at negotiations and found satisfactory, subject to minor
modifications. An additional workshop for launching procurement activities
will be held in June 1989.
3.16      Civil Works.  The scope and size of most ITIs is already established
from the guidelines in the exizting Training Manual for Industrial Training
Institutes and Centers. Arrangements for completing design of the more
sophisticated High Technology Center will be made during project
implementation, when advice from experts under the technical assistance program
will be available. The appraisal mission has reviewed these arrangements and
made recommendations.   At negotiations the Government provided architectural
worksheets for all new construction and renovations I-oposed for the first year
of the project. Preliminary designs for new workshops rnd plans for existing
ITIs during the second year of implementation will be ready for review as soon
as the project becomes effective. The Architects' Departments of Public Works
(in Delhi and at the States) will assist in finalizing the designs and
construction schedules and ensuring that the needs of the users and functional
requirements of the buildings are satisfied.
3.15      Staff Development.  At negotiations the Government provided final
training plans identifying the various trainee groups/roles, number of
trainees, training objectives and general description of the curriculum and
course content, duration of training, and implementation schedule, for the ITI,
BTC, RTC, AVTS, and High Tech Center programs, for the first year of the
project.



- 32 -
3.16      Technical Assistance.  Considerable assistance has been provided by
the ILO in establishing the technical assistance parameters, particularly in
response to the needs for the High Technology items. An ILO team visited India
in July 1988 and made a number of recommendations on this matter. This
technical assistance will include professional services for the procurement of
specialized equipment and assistance with the placement of fellows.
D. Implementation
Project Management Arrangements
3.17      The Ministry of Labor (MOL), will have the overall responsibility for
the project and for Inter-State coordination. The Director General of
E,ployment and Training (DGET) will be responsible for project execution. The
DGET will be directly responsible for the overall planning and coordinated
administration of the project, staff training, monitoring and reporting
activities, including audits of project accounts. It will also be responsible
for preparing a project completion report within six months after completion of
disbursements. A Central Project Implementation Unit will be established
within the DGET, MOL, to direct the implementation of the centrally managed
NVTS components: the AVTS and High Technology Center, the Women's RVTIs and the
NVTI, and all planning, management and supervision subcomponents (see Charts 7
and 8, PIU organization). In addition, the CPIU will set guidelines and
provide quality control for the other centrally sponsored schemes that will be
executed by the Szates. The DGET' will be strengthened wi-h requisite staff and
equipment financec. under the project to: (a) provide overall coordination with
concerned agencies; (b) organize central procurement of equipment and
materials; (c) direct and guide the design of civil works and oversee
construction activities; (d) budget and control project finances, keep records,
and prepare and submit withdrawal applications to IDA; (e) coordinate training
and technical assistance; and (f) provide general administrative support to the
project, evaluate iitiplementation performance, and prepare quarterly progress
reports.
3.18      The State Training Directorates will be responsible for providing the
matching funds for the re-equipping of ITIs in their respective States, and
will directly implement this scheme under the guideliLes and oversight of the
CPIU. The State Training Directorates will also be directlv responsible for
implementing the extended apprenticeship training component. All plans for
project-assisted investments at the State level will be developed by the States
and vetted with the CPIU before implemer,tation. The States will be responsible
for the administration of their respective budgets and periodic monitoring and
reporting to the CPIU.
3.19      Operational support will be provided to cover routine project
management and supervision activities during the seven-year implementation
period and will include salaries and honoraria for additional staff, travel and
subsistence allowances for supervision and for the collection and processing of
information concerning project progress.



- 33 -
3.20      In addition to the above arrangements, the following committees will
be constituted to direct general policy matters and set technical guidelines:
(a)  a Technical Committee comprised of State Directors and other Heads of
Institutions involved; and
(b)  State level committees in States with major involvement in the
project.
3.21      Procurement actions will be directed by DGET with assistance from
staff seconded from other agencies with requisite experience. The DGET will
procure centrally all major equipment for both centrally managed and State
managed programs. The States will oversee the procurement of minor equipment
and of consumables. These arrangements for procurement build upon those now
being used. Civil works which, with the exception of the High Technology
Center, are small and dispersed will be assigned to the central PWDs and State
PWDs. The DGET and the State directorates will proviae the necessary guidance
and supervision through its facilities division to ensure that the work
progresses on schedule and the users' needs are met. In addition, technical
assistance in specialized areas will be provided by experts under the technical
assistance program.
3.22      The project will be executed in accordance with an agreed overall
implementation plan which will be reviewed and adjusted annually in
consultation with all concerned agencies and the Association. Budget
allocations reflecting the agreed activities will also be made annually. At
negotiations the Government provided assurances that by De-ember 31 of each
year (commencing December 31, 1989), the proposed implementation plan for the
following project year will be prepared and furnished to the Bank Group. Each
plan will include staffing and training plans, plans for the acquisition of
land (including a statement of land acquired to date), and financial,
procurement and construction plans for that project year.
ImRlementation Schedule
3.23      The project will be implemented over a seven year period (Annex 9).
The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996. To allow for the
completion of payments and full withdrawals of credit proceeds, the closing
date will be September 30, 1996, six months after completion.



- 34 -
E. Procurement
Procurement
3.24      The credit proceeds will be used to finance procurement in the agreed
categories of expenditure during the seven-year implementation period as
follows:
Eauipment totalling about US$248.2 million will be procured as follows:
(a)  IQ.  Bid packages exceeding US$200,000 equivalent will be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines (about US$85.3 million). Local manufacturers
will be giver a margin of preference in bid comparison of 15% of the
c.i.f. price of competing imports or the actual customs duty,
whichever is lower.
(b)  LCB.  Equipment items in smaller packages will be procured through
local competitive bidding under government procurement procedures
acceptable to the Association   Procurement through LCB may not
exceed an aggregate of about US$118.5 million.
(c)  LIB.  Equipment packages expected to be below US$200,000, but
containing highly specialized items not available in India, may be
awarded under the Bank's Guidelines for Limited International
Bidding.
(d)  Prudent ShoRRing.  Off-the-shelf items not exceeding US$50,000
equivalent for each package and aggregating to a maximum of US$21.4
million, could be purchased through prudent shopping on the basis of
three competitive price quotations.
(e)  Direct Contracting.  Proprietary equipment items obtainable only from
one source may be procured directly from the manufacturers or
suppliers, aggregating to about US$21.4 million. This amount
represents the estimated value of such items required for training in
specific service-related trades.
Furniture totalling about US$1.9 million equivalent, will be procured locally
through competitive bidding and for contracts below US$50,000, through prudert
shopping procedures.
Books totalling about US$1.9 million equivalent, will be purchased through
prudent shopping procedures directly from publishers or local distributors
after negotiation for best discounts.
Consumable naterials totalling US$12.1 million equivalent, will be procured
locally under LCB procedures, and for contracts below US$50,000, through
prudent shopping.



35 -
Civil works totalling ab ut US$48.6 million equivalent, will be procured
locally through local competitive procedures.
Staff training (overseas fellowships and local training) totalling about
US$15.9 million equivalent, will le arranged with local and overseas
institutions. Placement of fellows in foreign institutions will be made on the
basis of relevance and quality of the programs offered, costs and prior
experience, and will be reviewed by the Bank Group.
Soecialist services for local and foreign experts totalling about US$3.8
million equivalent, will be procured in accordance with the 'Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."
3.25      The procurement procedures to be used for the above categories are
indicated in Table 3.4 below:



- 36 -
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million)
Procurement method               Total
., ------------------------------       cost
Category of Expenditure          ICB      LCB      Other      NA        A/
Equipment:
Standard                      66.5     105.1    42.9        -       214.5
(49.8)    (78.8)  (32.2)      -       (160.8)
High Tech                     16.8      13.5      3.4       -        33.7
(9.3)     (7.4)   (1.9)      -        (18.6)
Books                             -          -      1.9       -          1.9
(1.5)               (1.5)
Furniture                         -        1.7      0.2       -          1.9
(1.0)   (0.1)                (1.-)
Civil works and related           -       48.6       -        -         48.6
professional services           -      (29.2)               -       (29.2)
Training:
Domestic                        -         -        -     14.1        14.1
(14.1)     (14.1)
Overseas                        -         -        -      3.8         3.8
-         -       -      (3.8)       (3.8)
Specialist services:
Local                           -         -               1.3         1.3
-  -    -     (1.3)        (1.3)
Foreign                         -         -        -      2.5         2.5
-        -        -       2.5        (2.5)
Miscellaneous                     -          -       -       3.8         3.8
-         -       -      (1.9)       (1.9)
Incremental Salaries              -         -        -      63.6       63.6
-  -    -    (33.1)       (33.1)
Incremental Maintenance           -         -        -      18.1       18.1
-         -       -      (0.0)       (0.0)
Travel/Daily Allowances           -         -        -       9.9         9.9
& Honoraria                     -          -       -      (4.9)       (4.9)
Consumable Materials              -       10.9      1.2       -         12.1
-       (6.5)   (0.7)      -         (7.2)
Total                         ILI      179.8    49.6   117.1        429.8
(59.1)   (122.9)  (36.4)  (61.6)    (280.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank Group.
a/   Totals represent total estimated costL per category inciuding price and
physical contingencies.
NA -  Not applicable.



- 37 -
3.26           Bank Group Review.  As model documents developed for LCB have
been cleared with the Association, prior review will be required for ICB only.
Other contracts will be subject to selective post-award reviews. The High
Technology components, particularly the Apex Institution, will be given special
attention during project implementation to ensure that design and contracting
of related civil works, and equipping proposals are technically sound, and
follow Bank Group procurement.
F. Disbursements
3.27           The proposed loan and credit will be disbursed over a period of
about 7 years (Table 4.4). Disbursements are expected to be completed by
September 30, 1996 and will be made against the following categories of
expenditures: (a) civil works, furniture and related professional services and
fees - 60%; (b) equipment, books, and instructional materials - (i) 100% of
foreign expenditures of directly imported goods, (ii) 100% of local (ex-
factory) expenditures of locally manufactured goods, and (iii) 75% of local
expend.tures of locally procured goods; (c) training - 100% of total
expenditures; (d) specialist services - 100% of total expenditures; (e)
honoraria and travel and subsistence allowances - 50%; (f) consumable materials
- 60%; and (g) incremental salaries - 60% for the first three project years,
and 50% for the remaining four project years.
3.28           rhe disbursement forecast is based on the historical profile of
other Bank financed education projects in the Asia Region. A profile for
education has not yet been established in India due to the limited operations
of the sector to date. The program and disbursement forecast is feasible,
considering that most of the proposed activities are either part of on-going
plans or at an advanced stage of preparation.



- 38 .
Table 3.5: DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
Disbursement                      Disbursement   Semesters
IDA                            _       Cumulative  Profile (%)    from
Fiscal  year    Semester    Cumulacive    as % of       Regional        Approval
and Semester    ----(US$  million)----    total         Ed. Projects   Date
--- --- --- --.- . -- -- . -..- . - . --- -..- - . . .. - --.- - . . - .   . .   . . .   .  -
1989
2nd             0.0             0.0         0S           0%             1
1990
1st             5.6             5.6         2%           2%
2nd             5.6            11.2         4%           4%             3
1991
1st            11.2            22.4         8%           10%           4
2nd            19.6            42.0        15%           18%            5
1992
1st            28.0            70.0        25%           28%            6
2nd            28.0            98.0        35%           38%            7
1993
1st            19.6           117.6        42%           46%            8
2nd            22.4           140.0        50%           54%            9
1994
1st            28.0           168.0        60%           64%            10
2nd            28.0           196.0        70%           73%            11
1995
1st            14.0           210.0        75%           80%            12
2nd            14.0           224.0        80%           88%            13
1996
1st            28.0           252.0         90%          94%           14
2nd            14.0           266.0         95%         100%            15
1997
1st             8.4           274.4         98%                        1.6
2nd             5.6           280.0        100%                         17
Closing Date: September 1996
3.29      Documentation of Expenditures.  Wi,idrawal applications for goods and
services with a contract value of US$200,000 or more will be supported by full
documentation, otherwise Statements of Expenditures will be used. Other
disbursements against programs not undertaken by contract such as program



- 39 -
support, operation, maintenance and project management coscs will be made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure. The DGET will be responsible for
ag,gregating the eligible expenditures under each sub-project and preparing
withdrawal applications for submission to the Bank Group. To the extent
practicable, withdrawal applications will be aggregated in amounts of US$3.0
mi'lion or more, prior to submission.
3.30      SRecial Accounts.  To facilitate disbursements, the project will
establish a Special Account in a bank acceptable to the Bank Group. An amount
of US$25 million equivalent will be deposited into the Special Account upon
project effectiveness and upon application by the DGET. This amount should be
sufficient to cover expected eligible expenditures during any four-month
period.  Replenishment of the account will be based on quarterly statements
from DGET reflecting disbursements from the Special Account for agreed
expenditures, or when the amount is reduced below 50% of the initial amount,
whichever occurs first.
3.31      Retroactive Financing  up to US$10 million equivalent (about 3.6% of
the proposed credit) has been included to cover eligible expenditures during
the twelve month period preceding credit signing (but not before May 1988, the
pre-appraisal date), for costs incurred in implementing appraised ITI equipment
procurement, and other eligible expenditures.
G. Monitorire and Reporting
Project Monitoring and Reporting
3.32      To provide effective monitoring and reporting of the Droject, the
DGET and concerned State Directorates will regularly monitor: (a) realization
of expenditures; (b) implementation of project activities; and (c) performance
of the system.
3.33      Expenditures.  Expenditures agreed for the seve.n year project period
will be monitored annually. The plans for the project period will be monitored
according to the dates agreed for each of the actions in the Plan. Reasons for
deviation will be identified, modified plans agre3d and action taken to
overcome bottlenecks and facilitate achievement of the plans.
3.34      Project Activities.  The implementation of the main project
activities will be monitored in terms of actual progress compared with plans;
the achievement of project targets: building work, equipment and materials
procurement, and consulting services compared with the planned implementation
schedule.
3.35      System Performance.  The performance indicators developed in the
monitoring and evaluation component for the entire NITS (see Annex 7) will also
be used by the DGET to monitor the performance of the various project
institutions, and by sub-project managers to monitor and compare the
performance of their individual components. After their validity has been
established, the key performance indicators will be used as a major factor in
the allocation of resources. The performance indicators will also provide the



- 40 -
basis for setting goals for short- and long-term improvement in eftic!ency and
quality (see paras. 2.27-28, Mid-term Review and Special Studies).
H. Accounts and Audits
3.36      Project accounts and details of the Special Account will be
maintained by the DGET. Accounts and documentation supporting SOEs will be
maintained separately and will be readily available centrally for review by
visiting Bank Group missions. Accounts and SOEs for each fiscal year will be
audited by the comptroller and Auditor General of India. Within six months of
the closing date, DGET will submit a project completion report to the Bank
Group. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it
would have the project accounts audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
procedures, consistently applied, by an independent auditor. In addition it
will furnish the Bank Group with the audit each year, including a separate
opinion on the use of Statements of Expenditure within nine months of the close
of the government's fiscal year.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1       Benefits.  The main benefit of the project will be the provision to
the industrial sector of more relevant and better trained skilled and
semi-skilled manpower. The NVTS will also be rejuvenated and more closely
linked to industry and better able to respond to current and projected needs.
The project will also increase modern sector training opportunities for women.
In addition, it will result in a strengthe'.ied planning and management capacity
for vocational training, particularly at the State level.
4.2       Risks.  The major risk likely to face the project is the potential
delays in implementing a national effort. Other concerns are: (a) the fact
that the MOL has not previously worked with the Bank; (b) the continued
inadequacy of industry-training establishment linkages; (c) difficulties in
implementing improved maintenance programs; and (d) constraints on establishing
enhanced incentives for instructional staff. These risks are being addressed
in a number of ways. First, the project builds upon an ongoing government
sponsored scheme for modernization of ITIs. In addition, 40% of the project is
under a single entity. Second, a detailed procurement plan was prepared and
generic bidding documents were approved prior to negotiations. Third, the DGET
will have some flexibility to shift funds from one ITI/State to another based
on implementation performance wiiich should cons;derably limit implementation
delays by any given State. The additional risks mentioned above will be
addressed through the implenentation of well-prepared project components aimed
directly at improving: monitoring and evaluation, and the strengthening of ITI
industrial advisory boards to improve industry-training establishment
linkages.



- 41 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1       At negotiations, the Government provided the following:
(a) outlines for the studies to be conducted under the project for the
review and comment of the Bank Group (para 2.28);
(b) identification of the key staff responsible for implementing the
project at the CPIU to be appointed by April 1, 1989 (para 3.10);
(c) a plan for the acquisition of sites needed for implementing the
project in the second year and b-eyond and an operational plan for the
high technology center, including overall plans and schedules for
site selection, civil works, equipment procurement, and activities to
be undertaken (para 3.12);
(d) an equipment procurement plan for the ITI/AVTS components, including
equipment lists and an outline of proposed packaging and phasing of
procurement during the seven-year project implementation period, and
standard bidding documents JICB and LCB) L'or all items scheduied for
procurement during the first year of the projen.t (para 3.13);
(e) architectural worksheets for all new construction and renovations
proposed for the first year of the project (para 3.14); and
(f) final training plans, identifying the various trainee groupsi'roles,
number of trainees, training objectives and generai description of
the curriculum and course content, duration of trairing, and
implementation schedule, for the ITI, BTC, RTC, AVTS, and High lech
Center programs, for the first year of the project (para 3.15).
5.2       At negotiations the Government provided assurances that:
(a) it will maintain a Central Project Implementation Unit during the
life of the project, which will carry out project coordination,
monitoring, and supervision (para 2.22);
(b) the equipment maintenance system will be adequately funded and
maintained throughout the life of the project (para 2.8).
(c) it will continue under the project its policy of strengthening links
between training institutions and industry through the establishment
of local levcl advisory boards and the appointment of industry
liaison officers for each ITI assisted under the project (para 2.10);
{d) no later than December 31, 1994, a mid-term review of project
progress will be undertaken and furnished to the Bank Group under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank Group with a view to
identifying any implementation problems and actions required to
strengthen the subsequent execution of the Project. The mid term
review would take into account the output of the monitoring and



- 42 -
evaluation system as well as the findings and recommendations of
the studies carried out under the Project prior to the niid-term
review (para 2.27);
(e)  the following studies will be undertaken under terms of reference
and an action plan agreed by the Bank Group: (i) an evaluation of
the self-employment scheme no later than December 31, 1994; (ii) a
tracer study of ITI certificate holders into the labor market no
later than September 30, 1995; (iii) a sample study of ITI
instruction no later than December 31, 1994; and (iv) a study of
the application of accreditation standards in selected ITIs no
later than July 31, 1995 (para 2.28);
(f)  by December 31 of each year (commencing December 31, 1989), the
proposed implementation plan for the following proiect year will
be prepared and furnished to the Bank Group. Each plan will
include staffing and training plans, plans for the acquisition of
land, (including a statement of land acquired to date), and
financial, procurement, and construction plans for that project
year (para 3.22); and
(g)  assurances were obtained from the Government that it would have
the project accounts audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing procedures, consistently applied, by an independent
auditor. In addition, it will furnish the Bank Group with the
audit each year, including a separate opinion on the use of
Statements of Ex:enditure, within nine months of the close of the
government's fiscal year (para 3.36).
5.3       In addition to the above, the following condition of disbursement
was agreed:
(a)  as a condition of disbursement for expenditures in any State or
Union Territory, that State/Union Territory participating in the
project will have submitted a letter of undertaking to GOI,
satisfactory to the Bank Group, which will cover implementation,
procurement and coordination arrangements wi.ch the States/Union
Territories will be expected to follow, including the maintenance
during the life of the project of a State Project Implementation
Unit (para 2.22). This letter will also deal with maintenance of
facilities and progress/supervision reports and will ensure
adherence to project arrangements.
5.4       Part of the proposed project will be carried out in the State of
Jammu and Kashmir, which includes areas over which India and Pakistan have
been in dispute since 1947. In making the proposed loan/credit to India,
the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the claims
of the parties involved.
5.5       Recommendation.  Subject to the above conditions and assurances,
the project will constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$30.0
million equivalent, and an IDA credit of SDR 189.2 million ($250.0 million
equivalent) to India, on standard IBRD and IDA terms.



'-.rn3c  3.-.  cc . r - rr r , a />    J - v v  n  4-.-  .   r.  -   -3.       3..  .a          .    .       .c. . . .r.. . .                          .  . .        a
;o_-  wQ  ~.A.....           _ro  0-  a_c __-'3.-4......                                                                    .... _  .,  _  3_.- .3.3.3.0A..  j-; .n-4-           .c              ..  _ ro0____  - _ o;0 _ 
C,-  o   oC       3.,.           oA ',   _.     ,              v33.          cttl3-.-o             v..A.    o-n    oovvv3-   t-av  -O.  G  G0 _               nZC3        t3  OO....   _   ,s.
. --nr.  3.   r&.->r.           --r +                              rr c - -        .r    J.           Og    n       c .- ..-- .            -..-. e-.-o.                  - _ n gt.......
<vC<t Vw o   .>  3. crt                   .c  _-.  3. 0                               J o < <  v     oc . .  o  o                  r. -.
3.  Ot          *-                                                           S~~~~~~9t 
3.                                                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
a-..   -5 -3.3.            -X                                          3. 3.:t-ca    3~  -~                 . . 0... .     .    .    ...    . 0      3 .  .  .t ... .
I -
| | I * ~~~~~~~~~~-3*b|O*_j b*|v*Ob*IbI... 3.                                   3...t.2.c                 .3.3.3.,.-.t.3.    .Oc                    O     .c.                      I
^    o!        Da      X'-;       v.      oO  . _..*. ....,,............. 4    t W_     *o       !!     )    vr r_   vv -   -!-             -. ZS  o  DO    O_.   -    ;gti! *    gL  
O0V0O30D00ot0O030D  3                             -                  o                  D2 s. .........CrX-3L~jaOOr  rJra     2  !r O rO~-2  _ .000g0_   O0CC '.3.........                         .      ........OGOOo... 3.-  .   -
b  *V  bo *                                                                                 .                                                                               -        .    1
3..3s3-~-..3..*3                  * C3~.0.                      J'.3.|.   3.*            tc...-    *.   * 0                3 . 3 .'  Fg 
V 3t _o  .O  ''S O_s_f .  . _   _D  .  A. - Z     -3  ! 3          a..2        -          cc      .                         .3-;2  D5             3.- =  rOa-33z  O .0    _o0r     '--n.  o.    _             .  ~o flfloZ  _r     
*            at            t ,    -            t    ts a    a;    ate                        at oo__Ob!<            t   _ -  V3  Do_.3O__          .................. 53.1!~' |_>n   
X 'O O O -s- - = _ @    :   ...  s  ,   . I, ,,   .-' ....'......                                  0 .-...--t.3.t. .- - -                           j  3.          0 
a- tt --  C-:.GO sOC tOIt a r                           o     o    o    ;;~3..t..t-S33..                                     -a      3._ _ .3._   _  _.   aa                 0- '_   Doa*3G     a-         DG|GV   



44-                                                                             Page 2 of 2
C"APATIVS 9KUTION tWICATOaS
i"q
CMIAL
:owl
:SRFMITM    :61MMUTION                                           COIVL MOI:                    ticuituilT
:O14 9*UCATtON  : IBM RWf                i AWLT                   .1. ;.                        -'%IT COST    PWX;AMSSI1W
:GM    M :                   : AS  pasesw        :99PIMITUfAS   L I TROWT: Pik I MAV : Pt I VA& V               PRI-WAV   PRIVARY            AATV. ftOM        IECIMDAAY W -10DARY 4II;MFQ
MSU   POP. :CAPTTA   P9MC2W    CW:TGTAL  CZWMALALLOCATW    TO: ILATt                              :11111KILL-SCROOL            STUDEWM   CIRICATUM    PRIPAItY  TO   tVROI.L.    STI'DENTS    F4WLL,
:TU101ILLS.:(US$)   :WVOrZD TO  :Offgl*SW                          :14111    sac   III     (2)      :RATtO          :CYCLII     -pas          AS  PtRClO1T:S6CY)"DAJ1V          RATIO          PER           RATV
INCATION  :gX#M t?UU                        (1)           (1976)    (1)               (t)        TtAO491   GOViCAPITA:               (t)              I)       TRACHER           (11,
(1)
I&A  SIA        TU   if  11 I ,C.
t$WMISIA                    L    150:".                                      9:',          7,.,    21    , A,                                                 S,           L,,:O             b, 11
lot"                      :2       19.S)b   L .65230b       7.7-            20.6            )4     14      IL        Ot           99                         43            kb.0,,             67                           22
LAOS                      as       1.7          1643       4.4-              7.0            ba     24       I       .7y          Al            la            11                                               LI           11
KtIAV SIA                 96       16,1b   I Swb            6.7             1                      40      2                                                 22            ib.0               1.
N             222       -b           O)            'J.
:APUA 0I.C.               8)         1:1,):                                 L ,                     11-
'a           'IO         I.:                            61 1)    )b    ---        ?ib         8A           bs             IL             1.1
MILIFFIN95
S, OCAFORS                w
SOLOWN  ISL.              82        ;:,2.   ","o,          S'                                                       A,                                                                                                     'A
t'A ILAND                 42        9           "O                                                                  A.                        ba                            4.1-
V'AMATU                   ob        1)          .-O                         !'3:,'         6",                       ti         115            to                          11 Q
SOM ASIA
LVCLADES14                46      I'm    L      III)                                                                             tI            0             4                                LI
w         I 2                                                     ---    ---              2i
SHUTAN                                                                       L, ")
M IA                             h59:t          2'                           9.9-Y          - -    ---    ---       36                                       1-
2      1 1.11b      11 t        1.            ---                                                     I')                         LA                                                            Si           I
PAXISTU                   :2       q?.ib        M(ob        2                               u      2(                             S,)                                       5.9               St              2            1             1
EPAL
EU           IDDLE CAS r Allo MORT"  ArRICA
A,=! SH
TA"           7 7                                                 1.1           .7             15        12           ilb,         6                           -
AWERIA                                       L                              ii.)
Irl, PT                                                                                                                                                                        A-             43-               I,
17!                                                               Il.   11.   2 6
IO       S.. I       I,:)
:,,,.
000,Y,        ---
RELAND                                                                    It.A-Y                                                             9              24           ---                9A
J"                                                                                                                                 !.
RDAJW                  4        2.2b   1.,21)b         I9                                                                    q
19     -4     14                                  85
LEBANON                             2.1            -        ,:-                             -       -       _-       - -         9;.           --
,40ROCCO                  A.       21.8b        b7                             .9           W      .1      19        IS           5'.           9             I
,MAM                     85         :.2b   6,49,)b          1.2            j,.1..                                      b,        7'..         6
Ah                I I                                                      SO     2,       I        4,        I.IS                          in
OATUGA,_                                                    :b                                                                                                                              hA                                         4.
RUMN I A                   4       .12:1                                                                     -                                               21,                             98               4.
9t,                                                                             ---                         ---
SPI,                                                                                                                                                         :9t           ---                                                        Z"  j
L`6                                                      14     2'    2                      A
TUMESIA                                                                                            14      4          't
y
KXE
fE4101                                                      '.9p            I,.:           4,      r        i                                                                                4,
YI.,                                                                                                                S3
------------------                         ---------- -------  --------------------------  -- -----  -----------
iumAly FOR DEVELOPENC OUNTRIFS
9               41           42
1.,3-   In-    S-          8            2-
?,,    .0) I3,            S;I        ii4           4,
48           A0            .1
91            I
1.     2A     IA        Si
-4.dw                                                                        1,  I                       14        S,
--------------------              ---------- --------  ------------- ....... L- 28 .............................. .....   ... - -------------                                                               ---------
SYWLS                                                                                            FIA)MTES
OATUM  UNMALLASILE                                                               A-OAIV PREIIR  T'  1.1k YFAR                                            41 St TRY  -F               I I .11,  I.L1
4A(;N,.r,,ot  41 'IR  4EGLII,(qLF                                               9-DATU4  4t)RF  REr"T  n(AN  ",,  Y,.q                             7    F III,, iTATI  IIVERNMFNT  WIY
DArl' Ol)(1ESTIONTAIL                                                                                                                                                                     Y
L
[Nr.L,J ES PAXT-    4E  qT"D"TS                                                        ,F   'NO L WNT  UTT,-                                                                        1T7'11,ST1
T
RINS ENROLLMENT  RATIO                                      y     !MESCII i,IJRCFS
,;DP
SOURCES                C.1-          I -d  2    W.,1,1 R..k  MI..             Vd,- ,I.I, .,,-    ft.Ld
1-    W.,Ld S-                       ... 1,,,   LW -.,
h. 1, - St.tt.ti,.1 Y.., W.k
------------------------------ ------------------------------------------- :------------------------------------ ---------------- -------  ----------------------------
C,7:11111:1 I            t                                                                   I.                           -d
t..:,%,                pr:,
-1   1,         ON,          L.     -    I,   'I                          h. A.
"d                  I                     II_  I_  U__                           h.-
I. h.,: th. ---7; M.
P-41 ... t-l             h.
.1. M          h...  d.l.,   h.   F.11-t,, q-L    I                    ,,-1d   W    k,pl  0    - d
Iftl.d   L,  th.   1.bL.   t-!.d..    It                                            Wth   f--L -d
tl
d- -1
111111,d
L                 Y L
i.111r,
IL -pil.1 -d                       ..Idtlu-    -,,d
li_        11  P"L"    I    1.
L                                                    L
It .1r r                    p       .9



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
i                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Technical Education and Vocational Training (TEVT)
i ~~Introduction
1.             Rapid industrialization in India, together with technological
advancement involving new methods, new processes, and advanced machinery has
resulted in unprecedented requirements for skilled technical manpower at all
occupational levels. The government has responded through successive 5-year
plans by developing technical education and vocational training systems
capable of meeting the changing requirements.  Such development has been
achieved through policies which have combined National and State
responsibilities within a coordinated system.  The Government is aware,
however, that its future planning must confront the formidable challenge of
large scale investment in its education and training systems based on the
implications of forecasted indusrrial trends; its policy remains rooted in the
belief that appropriate education and training systems are prerequisites for
successful economic development.
The TEVI System
2.             The present system caters for all levels of skill development
from craft training in industrial training institutes to the highest levels of
academic and applied work in engineering and technology in the Institutes of
Technology. The system is administered through a variety of executive and
advisory bodies at National, State and Local levels,  ith the Department of
Education of the Ministry of Human Resources Development and the Directorate
General of Employment and Training of the Ministry of Labor being the two main
central executive authorities, and the Directorates of Training and Technical
Education being the State Authorities. The whole system is shown
diagrammatically in the attached annex, which also indicates possible transfer
routes between various parts of the system. Each part of the system is
described below.
Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs)
3.             ITIs provide craftsmen training in a total of 65 trades.  There
are 1887 such institutes of which 224 cater wholly or partly for women
trainees; 45% are state controlled and the remainder privately controlled.
The state ITIs cover more trades than che private ones and about two thirds of



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
the 327,000 available training places (310,000 men and 17,000 women) are in
state ITIs. Private ITIs can become affiliated to the National Council for
Vocational Training if their standards comply with prescribed guidelines; only
affiliated ITIs may submit their trainees for the all India trade tests for
DGET certification. Entry requirement to the ITIs vary from 8th to 10th grade
secondary school. Courses are intended to be terminal but there are
opportunities for graduates to enter the apprenticeship scheme with
appropriate credits being given for the training completed.
Basic Training Centers (BTCs)
4.             BTCs provide basic training for apprentices as part of a
structured apprenticeship program as specified in the Apprenticeship Act of
19f1 (revised 1973). There are 134 designated trades and basic training
varies from 6 mcnths to 1 year according to trade. Firms employing more than
5QO workers are required to set up BTCs to cover trades appropriate to their
needs but, when numbers are small, the responsibility tends to be taketn by the
state. Under the 1961 act, the state is required to provide BTC faciliLies
for apprentices employed in firms with less than 500 workers. In practice,
virtually all of the state BTCs are located within ITIs.
Related Instruction Centers (RICs)
5.            RICs are essentially classroom facilities where theory related
to apprenticeship training is imparted. Many RICs are located within ITIs but
a significant number occupy their own separate (usually donated) buildings.
Instruction is given by the same instructors who provide basic training and
related instruction occupies 12 of the 42 periods which constitute one week of
training.
Industry Training Facilities
6.            The apprenticeship act requires large firms to provide BTCs for
their apprentices and for all firms to provide training and experience after
basic training in accordance with laid down programs. Such training is
subject to inspection by state or DGET inspectors.
Regional Vocational Trainine Institutes for Women (RVTIs)
7.            There are 7 RVTIs which provide upgrading training for women and
instructor training programs. The upgrading (advanced) training is intended
to follow on from ITI training. Three of the RVTIs offer instructor training
programs for the instructors at the womens' ITIs.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
National Vocational Training Institute for Women (NVTI)
8.             There is only one NVTI located in Delhi and offering training
places for 300 women. It is the apex institution for womens' training and
serves as the focal point for developing and implementing new programs at the
state level. The NVTI also offers instructor training programs for
instructors at the womens' ITIs.
Advanced Training Institutes ATIs
9.             There are six ATIs offering one year instructor training
programs and short term modular courses for upgrading and updating skilled
workers and technicians, the latter courses varying from two to twelve weeks
duration. The ATIs can also offer tailor made programs to suit individual
companies. Additional ATI facilities have been created in 16 ATIs and the
total capacity for ATI training is approximately 10,000 places. ATIs trained
1,196 instructors during 1986/87.
Polytechnics
10.     There are 467 polytechnics offering three year technician training
courses leading to a national diploma award. The annual admission capacity is
65.000 students. The polytechnics are guided and supervi3ed by the boards of
technical education in the various states.
Technical Teacher Trainine Institutes (TTIs)
11.     There are 4 TTTIs providing in-service training programs of 12 to 18
months duration for polytechnic teachers. They also strive to improve
polytechnic education through activities such as education film production and
instructional package preparation and provide short-term training programs on
curriculum development and related activities.
Engineerine Colleges (ECs)
12      There are 180 ECs offering degree and post graduate courses for
en,ineers and technologists.  The colleges are affiliated to various
universities and other university level institutions.
Regional Engineering Colleges (RECs)
13.     There are 17 RECs established as joint ventures between the central
government and the state governments.  The colleges offer undergraduate and
post-graduate programs in conventional and specialized engineering fields and
they funiction as all India institutions admitting students and recruiting
faculty from all over the country.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
National Institutions
14.     There are a large number of highly specialized institutions set up to
train technical manpower in specific fields. Examples include the 4 Indian
Institutes of Management (IlMs) offering fellowship and in-service executive
development programs for managers, the administrative staff college of India
(Hyderabad) concentrating on in-service management development programs, the
National Institute for Training in Industrial Engineering (NITIE) offering
post graduate programs in industrial engineering and executive development,
the National Institute of Foundry and Forge Technology (NIFFT) offering
programs in advanced foundry and forgitig techniques, the Indian School of
Mines (ISM) offering urdergraduate and post-graduate programs in mining
geology, petroleum technology and geophysics, and the school of planning and
architecture.
Technological Universities (TUs)
15.     There are 15 TUs including the Indian Institute of Science (IISC) at
Bangalore, offering undergraduate programs. Some also offer M. Tech. and
doctoral programs for degree level teachers.
The Indian Institutes of Technology (II s
16.     There are 5 !ITs, all designated as institutes of national importance.
They are the premier centers of education and research in engineering and
technology and they conduct undergraduate and post-graduate courses in a wide
range of subject fields. They also offer facilities for doctoral work and
advanced research. In 1985/86 the total student strength of the institutes
was 5,904 undergraduates and 6,093 post-graduate and research students; the
total out-turn for 1985/86 was 3,867.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
The AoDrenticeshiR Training Scheme
Introduction
1.          For its economic progress, India has relied mainly on industrial
development through successive Five-Year Plans. Technical education and
vocational training systems have been featured in these Plans in order to
ensure that human resource development has matched technological development,
and Government policy is still rooted in the belief that appropriate education
and training systems are prerequisites for successful economic development.
One of the earliest national training schemes set up by the Directorate
General of Employment and Training was the Craftsmen Training Scheme for semi-
skilled and skilled workers, a scheme which still provides many trained
workers for industry. However, industry has additional needs for people with
proven experience as well as basic training, and the apprenticeship system has
evolved from the Craftsmen Training Scheme to meet such needs.
Legislation
2.          Apprenticeship training programs in industry were made statutory
by the enactment of the Apprentices Act of 1961, subsequently modified in 1973
and again in 1983. The Act sets out to regulate the program of training for
apprentices and to utilize fully the facilities available in industry for
practical training. The Act established the following Authorities for
administering the apprenticeship scheme:
(a)   The National Council;
(b)   The Central Apprenticeship Council;
(c)   The State Council;
(d)   The State Apprenticeship Council;
(e)   The All India Council;
(f)   The Regional Boards;



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(g)   The Boards or State Councils of Technical Education;
(h)   The Central Apprenticeship Adviser; and
(i)   The State Apprenticeship Adviser.
3.          The Act makes it obligatory for employers, in both public and
private sector industries, to engage apprentices according to a ratio of a
certain number of apprentices to workers in designated trades prescribed under
the rules. In 1973, the Apprentices Act was amended to include the training
of graduate engineer and diploma holder apprentices. A further amendment in
1986 enabled the Act to include the "10 + 2" stream of education, known as the
'technician (vocational) apprentices'.
4.          So far, the Act has specified 217 industries and 134 trades.  The
qualifications for admission range from 8th to 10th class pass, and the
duration of apprenticeship training varies from six months to four years for
different designated trades.
5.          Under the Act, employers have the following obligations:
(a)   To provide apprentices with training in their trades in
accordance with the provisions of the Act and the rules framed
thereunder;
(b)   To ensure that a person possessing the prescribed qualification is
placed in charge of the training of the apprentices;
(c)   To _arry out all the obligations under the contrac_ of appren-
ticeship training;
(d)   To engage a specified number of apprentices as fixed by the
apprenticeship adviser, ensuring that the ouota expected is filled
without any delay; and
(e)   To ensure that the reservs;ions of scheduled castes and scheduled
tribes, if applicable to his establishment, are observed.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Administration
6.          The overall responsibility for the Apprentices Act rests with the
Central Apprenticeship Adviser in the Ministry of Labor. Apprenticesh,p
training places are located as a result of intensive surveys conducted in
industrial establishments. The duration of training for trade apprentices
varies from six months to four years, depending upon the requirements of the
trades. The syllabi for different trades are prepared by respective trade
committees representing experts from the organizations of employers,
employees' unions and Government. Training syllabi are available for each
apprenticeship trade, together with the lists of equipment required to carry
out the training. Engagement of apprentices is normally done twice a year -
during February/March and August/September.
7.          The Central Government is responsible for implementing the
apprenticeship training scheme in the central government
establishments/departments and the respective state governments in the state
government departments/undertakings and private sector establishments.
8.          There are three categories of apprentices: trade apprentices,
graduate engineers and diploma holder apprentices. The apprenticeship
training program in respect of trade apprentices is implemented by the
Directorate General of Employment and Training in the Ministry of Labor with
the assistance of six regional directorates of apprenticeship training and by
state apprenticeship advisers in each of the states. The trainina program for
graduate engineer and diploma holder apprentices are controlled by four
regional boards of apprent_ceship training (autonomous bodies under the
Ministry of Education).
9.          The responsibility for engagement of apprentices lies solely with
the establishments, and employing establishments are required to enroll
suitable apprentices with them directly after making their own selections.
'he candidates can contact employer establishments directly for their
admission or they may contact the nearest employment e .change or the principal
of the industrial training institute in their vicinity for further details.
The employers can also request the assistance of the nearest employment
exchange or the principal. of the industrial training institute to supply them
with the names of suitable candidates for enrollment as apprentices.
10.         The entire craining program under the Apprentices Act is
controlled under the provisions of the apprenticeship contract between the
employers and the apprentices. The apprenticeship contract is registered with
the apprenticeship adviser and is a legal document. In case any dispute
arises, the matter is referred to the apprenticesnip adviser, whose decision
is binding on both the parties.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
Training Arrangements
11.         Apprenticeship training for trade apprentices consists of basic
training followed by on-the-job or shop floor training, with related
instruction throughout the period of training. Those of the apprentices who
have been engaged as MfreshersN by the employers for the full period of
training, i.e. six months to four years (according to the trade), are also
required to undergo basic training.
(a) Basic training
12.         Where there are corresponding trades under the craftsmen training
scheme and the apprenticeship scheme, the basic training is the same as that
provided in the industrial training institutes. There are, however, other
trades which are not available under the craftsmen training scheme, such as
chemical, printing and hotel and catering trades. Basic training in such
trades is imparted in basic training centers managed by the Central Government
or respective State Governments or employing establishments.
13.         A group of establishments can join together to establish a basic
training center. Normally, if facilities are available, basic training is
given at the nearest industrial training institute in consultation with the
principal of that institute. In the case of employers with less than 500
workers, the cost of basic training is shared equally by the establishments
and the appropriate g3vernments. In the case of employers employing more than
500 workers, the entire cost of basic training is borne by the employers.
They may arrange basic training in a separate place, off the job, with
classroom facilities, but training must be given by trained instructors
strictly as per the svllabi and operations prescribed.
(b)  Shop floor training
14.         This part of the training is given by the employers in their own
workshops and all operations listed in the syllabi hav to be completed.
Suitable arrangements, such as the appointment of instructors and provision of
machinery and equipment, have to be made to provide shop floor training.
(c) Related instruction
15.         Apprentices undergoing basic training or shop floor training in an
establishment should receive a course of theoretical related instruction
appropriate to their trades. Related instruction is provided at the cost of
the appropriate government at the rate of Rs. 20 per month per trainte
throughout the period of training. All facilities for offering such
instruction have to be provided by the employer.



53 -
ANN4EX 3
Page 5
td) Trade tests and certificates
16.         At the end of the training period, every trade apprentice is
required to appear in an all-India trade test for apprentices, conducted by
the National Council for Training in Vocational Trades, in the prescribed
subject together with a practical test. These tests are conducted twice a
year, in April and October. Those apprentices whc successfully pass the trade
test are awarded a certificate by the National Council for Vocational
Training, which is a recognized certificate for the purpose of employment
under the Government.
17.          In order to promote a healthy competition among the apprentices as
well as establishments, an All-India Apprentices Skill Competition in seven
trades (fitter, machinist, molder, turner, welder, motor vehicle mechL iic, and
electrician) is held after every all-India trade test. The apprentices
securing the highest qualifying marks at the all-India level are awarded a
cash prize of Rs. 6,000 and a merit certificate. The establishment whose
apprentices secure the highest marks in all seven trades put together in a
particular year is awarded a trophy and a certificate of honorable mention
from the President of India. Thus far, 38 All India Skill Competitions have
been held, the most recent in April 1987. The All India Skill Competitions
are preceded by regional competitions in all the above trades and a merit
certificate is awarded to the best establishments, as well as to the best
apprentice in each trade at the regional level.
(e) Stipends
18.         During the period of apprenticeship training, the graduate
engineers, diploma holders and trade apprentices are paid at the minimum
prescribed rates. The current rates of stipends payable by the employers to
the apprentices are given below:
Trade apprentices               - First year of training         : Rs. 290/month
- Second year of training         Rs. 330/month
-Third year of training         : Rs. 380/month
-Fourth year of trainfig          Rs. 440/month
Engineering graduates           - Post-institutional training   Rs. 700/month
Sandwich course students from degree institutions                 Rs. 500/month
Diploma holders                                                 : Rs. 500/month
Sandwich course students from diploma institutions              : Rs. 400/month
Technician (vocational) apprentices                             : Rs. 380/month
Note: The cost of stipends for graduate engineers and diploma holder
apprentices is shared equally between the Ministry of Education
and the employers.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
Achievements
19.         The latest available figures for 1987, show that 131,470 trade
apprentices were undergoing training in approximately 15,000 establishments.
This figure should be comp4red with the total number of training places
available, which is approximately 190,000. Approximately 65,000 apprentices
are engaged directly by employers as 'freshers'.  Of the 131,470 apprentices,
48,022 belonged to weaker sections of society such as scheduled castes,
scheduled tribes, physically handicapped, minorities and women.  Also on March
31, 1987, there were 18,061 engineering graduate and diploma holder
apprentices; this figure should be compared with the 28,548 training places
available.
20.         The importance of the apprenticeship system is recognized by
employers' and employees' representatives and by the National and State
Governments; there is common consensus that the system represents the most
practical means of training skilled workers for industry. There is also
encouraging evidence i:hat there is widespread commitment for the introduction
of any changes that may be deemed necessary to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of the system.



- 55 -
Table 1
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Details of Tuition le.aStinendn  in the StatesUTe
Name of State            Monthly         Monthly Stipend
UT              Tuition Fees         per Trainee               Remarks
(Rs)                (Rs
Maharashtra              No fees               40           for 50% of trainees
Jammu and Kashmir        No fees               40 to 100  for 4 categories
Dadra and Nagar                               100           for special trainees
Haveli                No fees                75           for others
Haryana                    10                  75           for special trainees
100          for ex-servicemen
45          for others
Andhra Pradesh           No fees               45
Rajasthan                No fees                            no stipend since '82
Meghalaya                No fees              120           for matriculates
100          for non-matriculates
UP,              10 for gen. trainees          40           for 10% of trainees
Madhya Pradesh           No fees               50           for 33% of general trainees
100          for special trainees
Chandigarh                 10                  40           for general trainees
60          for special trainees
Karnataka                No fees               50           for all reserved
categories only
Pondicherry                10                  40           for general trainees
60          for sr cial trainees
Sikkim                  No fees               125
Gujarat                    15                  75 to 125  for 4 categories
Nagaland                No fees               150
Manipur                  No fees               40           for general trainees
45          for special trainees
Orissa                   No fees               55           to 50% of general trainees
60          for special trainees
Madras                   No fees               25           for 33% of trainees
Punjab                  No fees                45           for 33% of general trainees
for special trainees
Delhi           10 except Resid. category   40              for 50% of trainees
Source: DGET, MOL.



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Expenditures on Centrlly-Sponsored Schemes
(Rs million)
1986-87                         1987-88
Budgeted     Actual             Budgeted      Actual
Scheme           Expenditure  Expenditure         Expenditure  Expenditure
Modernizatiorn of
ITI/replacement of
Machinery                   4.2          16.7                4.8          5.2
Grant-in-aid to
State for establishing
womnen ITIs                  -             -                 2.0          2.6
Actual exceeds budgeted expenditure due to reallocation of
unspent budgets elsewhere in the Ministry of Labor.
Source: DGET, MOL.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Approved Budget Outlay on Vocational Training - Central Sector
(Rs Million)
1984-85        _ 1985-86          1986-87          1987-88
Scheme            Plan    Non      Plan      Non    Plan      Non    Plan    Non
Plan              Plan             Plan            Plan
Craftsmen Training
(eneral)            5.23    1.31   5.00       1.37   5.00      1.46   3.70    1.65
Craftsmen Training
(wcmen)             5.20    0.63   2.60       2.99   6.65      3.88   4.30    5.38
Apprenticeship
Training            1.75    8.79   4.25       8.81   5.60      9.03   6.80   11.07
Trainiing of Highly
Skilled Craftsmen 10.73    6.52   6.20        7.90   6.95      7.73   7.90    9.64
Training of Craft
Instructors         6.60   23.70   2.00    25.05   4.00    26.00   3.30   32.31
Others               -       2.99   0.55      3.28   2.05      3.32   2.20    3.54
Civil Works
(construction)    15.50            12.59       -    11.25        -   21.20      -
Totals             45.01   43.94  33.19    49.40  63.10        51.42 49.40   63.59
Source: DCGET, MOL.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
AmUroved Budget Outlay on Vocational Training
State Expenditures on Craftsmen Training Scheme - General a/
(Rs. Million)
1984-85            1985-86            1986-87          1987-88
State/UTs          Plan    Non        Plan    Non        Plan    Non      Plan    Non
Plan               Plan               Plan             Plan
Andhra Pradesh      4.5    61.5        5.7    75.0        5.1    85.6      10.3   84.7
Assam               2.7     8.5        3.1    10.6        3.3    14.7       6.0   16.0
Bihar               1.0    36.3        4.9    42.4        4.6    42.5       4.2   48.7
Goa                 9.4     2.1        7.2      8.2       9.2      9.4      8.5    7.4
Gujarat            49.0    19.2       59.2    54.8       53.2    53.6      69.8   61.1
Haryana             8.4    31.0        6.4    37.1       20.0    39.9      22.0   43.1
Himachal Pradesh   4.1      7.9        3.7    10.5        2.5    11.1       4.9   11.9
Karnataka           4.7    26.2        7.3    28.9        2.4    28.9       5.0   36.4
Kerala              1.7    23.1        0.2    26.7        0.2    28.5       2.8   33.5
Madhya Pradesh    18.6    34.4         9.4    42.7       21.6    43.6      23.2   49.0
Maharashtra        89.9    74.6       32.9   125.9       34.3   140.7    131.5  157.9
Manipur             0.2     1.3        1.3      1.4       1.5      1.6      1.7    1.9
Meghalaya           0.3     1.4        0.4      1.6       0.4      1.9      0.7    2.4
Punjab              5.9    51.4        6.4    53.8        8.4    60.7      18.2   69.6
Rajasthan           3.7    12.9         .2    17.7        5.2    19.2       9.8   22.7
Sikkim              0.9     0.3        1.0     0.6        0.8     0.6       1.2    0.7
Tamil Nadu          5.2    38.4        7.4    41.5       13.1    41.7      33.5   45.9
Tripura             0.1     1.6        0.4      1.7       0.6      1.9      0.6    2.3
West Bengal         2.9    31.0        3.5    31.3        3.1    31.4       2.9   41.7
Chandigarh          0.1       .2       0.1     1.9        0.3      2.9      0.3    2.5
Dadra Nagar &
Haveli            1.0     0.3        1.0     0.4        0.8     0.4       1.8    0.3
Delhi               7.0    22.2        6.0    24.3        4.9    29.6       8.3   34.5
Total             221.3   487.6      169.5   639.0      195.5   690.4    367.2  774.2
a/ No data provided by Arunchal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Mizoram,
Nagaland, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, and Pondicherry, which together
represent about 15% of government ITIs.
Source: DGET, MOL.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Apgroved Budget Outlay on Vocational Training
State Exponditures on Craftsmen Training Scheme - Women a/
(Rs. Million)
1984-85           1985-86            1986-87          1987-88
State/UTs         Plan    Non        Plan    Non        Plan    Non      Plan    Non
Plan              Plan               Plan             Plan
Andhra Pradesh      0.30     -        1.00      -        0.50      -       1.40    -
Assam               0.30     -        0.30      -        0.30      -       1.00    -
Bihar                -                -          -            -             -      -
Goa                  -       -         -
Gujarat              -       -         -        -         -        -        -      -
Haryana              -       -        0.40      -        0.70      -       2.04    -
Himachal Pradesh   0.30    1.19       0.21    1.72       0.07    1.87       -     1.98
Karnataka            -       -         -        -         -        -        -      -
Kerala              1.60     -         -       1.20       -      1.51       -     3.23
Madhya Pradesh     0.25    1.26       0.26    1.99       0.43    2.47      0.28   2.80
Maharashtra        4.32      -        2.39    1.25       0.46    1.34      0.50   1.30
Manipur              -       -         -        -         -        -        -      -
Meghalaya            -       -         -        -         -        -        -      -
Punjab             5.91   51.40       6.40   53.76       8.45   60.68    18.21  89.61
Rajasthan _/
Sikkim               -       -         -        -         -                 -      -
Tamil Nadu         0.25    1.10       2.29    1.33       1.30    1.42      1.27   1.59
Tripura              -       -         -        -         -       -        0.30    -
West Bengal          -       -        0.40      -        0.2       -       0.60    -
Chandigarh         0.18    0.96       0.30    0.96        -      1.20      0.32   1.49
Dadra Nagar &
Haveli           3.00      -        2.69      -        1.60     -        2.00    -
Delhi              4.20    1.15       1.89    1.37       0.81    1.60      0.75   1 90
Total             20.61   57.06      18.53   63.58      14.82   72.09    28.67 103.90
a/ No data provided by Arunchal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Mizoram,
Nagaland, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, and Pondicherry, which together
represent about 15% of gcvernment ITIs. Blanks indicate no
outlays were made.
b/ No separate budget. Amount included ir. general ITIs.
Source: DGET, MOL.



- 60 -
ANNEX4
Table 6
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJ&CT
ADDroved Budget Outlay on Vocational Training
State ExDenditures on ApprenticeshiR Training a/
(Rs Million)
1984- 5            1985-86            1986-87          1987-88
State/UTs          Plan    Non        Plan    Non        Plan    Non      Plan    Non
Plan               Plan               Plan             Plan
Andhra Pradesh       -       2.47      0.40    3.20       0.40    3.58       0.50   3.41
Assam               0.04      -        0.06      -        0.05      -        0.08    -
Bihar               0.04    1.74       0.10    2.03       0.17    1.50      0.20   1.67
Goa                 0.05    0.10       0.02    0.11       0.04    0.15       0.04   0.09
Gujarat            15.80    1.71      14.26    5.41       8.21    5.47       5.80   6.00
Haryana              -      0.28        -       0.25        -      0.72       -     0.33
Himachal Pradesh    -       0.05        -       0.05        -      0.05       -     0.05
Karnataka           0.40    2.96       0.06    3.32       0.45    4.02      0.45   4.23
Kerala              0.40    1.89       0.30    2.07       0.20    2.69        -     3.15
Madhya Pradesh      0.58    0.28       0.15    0.70       0.20    0.60       0.10   0.77
Maharashtra         1.16   12.12       0.18   14.79       0.60   16.41      0.94  17.8L
Manipur             0.07    0.06       0.08    0.08       0.08    0.08       0.08   0.08
Meghalaya            -        -         -        -          -       -         -      -
Punjab              0.07    1.22        -       1.47       -       1.84       -     1.77
Rajasthan           0.55    1.04        -       1.79        -      1.92       -     2.25
Sikkim               -        -         -        -         -        -         -      -
Tamil Nadu          0.65    1.95       0.95    2.26       1.15    2.44       1.14   2.50
Tripura             0.01      -        0.02      -        0.02      -       0.02    -
West Bengal         0.13    2.80        -       3.04      0. 3    3.32      0.53   3.42
Chandigarh          0.06    0.18        -       0.18        -      0.19       -     0.19
Dadra Nagar &
Haveli            0.01      -        0.01      -        0.01      -       0.01    -
Delhi               0.20    2.35       -        2.38       -       2.93       -     2.64
Total              20.22   33.20      16.59   43.13      11.88   47.91      9.89  50.39
a/ No data provided by Arunchal 'radesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Mizoram,
Nagaland, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, and Pondicherry, which together
represent about 15% of government ITIs. Blanks indicate no
outlays were made.
Source: DGET, MOL.



-61 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Approved Budget Outlay or Vocational Training
State ExRenditures on Advancee. Vocational Training System n/
(Rs Million)
1984-85           1985-86            1986-87          1987-88
State/UTs         Plan    Non        Plan    Non        Plan    Non      Plan    Non
Plan              Plan               Plan             Plan
Andhra Pradesh      0.45     -        0.50      -        0.40      -       0.40    -
Assam               0.40    0.05      0.50    0.05       0.50    0.05      0.50   0.05
Bihar              0.14      -        0.44      -        0.19      -       0.04    -
Goa                  -                               -                      -
Gui arat                      -       -          -                 -            -
Haryana             1.10     -        0.50      -        0.50      -       0.50    -
Himnachal Pradesh    -       -        0.04      -         -        -        -      -
Karnataka          0.26      -        6.00    0.11       6.76    0.80      4.61   0.87
Kerala             0.80    0.34       0.50    0.40       0.50    0.48      0.50   0.48
Madhya Pradesh       -      0.22        -      0.30       -      0.37       -     0.44
Maharashtra         2.33     -        0.59      -        0.70      -      19.40    -
Manipur              -                           -             -            -
Meghalaya                               -            -             -            -
PuLijab            0.47      -        0.08      -        0.25      -       0.20    -
Rajasthan          0.35      -        0.04      -         -        -        -      -
Sikkim               -       -         -        -         -        -        -      -
Tamil Nadu          0.92     -        0.74      -        0.52      -       0.75    -
Tripura              -                               -                      -
West Bengal              -        -         -        -             -        -      -
Chandigarh           -       -
Dadra Nagar &
Haveli             -                                        -             -
Delhi              0.14      -        0.56      -        0.15    0.02      0.03   0.03
Total               7.36    0.61     10.49    1.46      10.47    1.72    26.93   1.87
a/ No data provided by Arunchal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Mizoram,
Nagaland, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, and Pondicherry, which together
represent about 15% of government ITIs. Blanks indicate no
outlays were made.
Source: DGET, MOL.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Demand and Supplv of Skilled Manpower
A. EmDlovment and Demand for Skilled Manpower
1.           The population of India has been increasing at an annual rate of
over 2% p.a. during the two decades from 1961 to 1981. With a reduction in the
fertility rate, the rate of population growth is expected to fall to around
2.1% p.a. during the period from 1971 to 1981. and to 1.5% by 1996-2001.
2.      Despite the reduction in population growth, the size of the total
population is expected to increase by 225 million between 1986 and 2001.
Coupled with the increase in the proportion of population in the working
(15-59) age group, the labor force would grow at a more rapid rate of over 2%
p.a. in the period from 1985 to 2001. In order to provide sufficient
employment opportunities and guard against further increases in unemployment
and underemployment, it is essential that employment demand generated from
economic growth should exceed the rate of growth in labor supply. Though the
rate of unemployment. at around 3%, was low compared with many developing and
developed countries, it should be noted that the rate was fairly high, at
around 13-18%, for the urban youth aged 15-29. Furthermore, as the
unemployment rate was based on the usual status of workers, it concealed the
existence of significant under-employment, especially in the rural and
informal sector of the population.
3.          The rate of growth of the Indian economy has accelerated over the
past seven years. The target of 5.2% annual increase in the Gross Domestic
Product (GDP), set in the 6th Five Year Plan (1979-80 to 1984-85), has been
achieved. In the 7th Five Year Plan (1985-86 to 1989-90), a continued growth
at 5% p.a. in the GDP was projected for the period up to 2000, with the
manufacturing, mining, electricity, water, and gas, and services sectors
leading at an above average rate of growth. As a result, the share of the
manufacturing, infrastructure and services sectors in the GDP would increase.
This calls for the need to ensure an adequate supply of skilled manpower to
support the increase in output in these sectors, especially for the
manufacturing and infrastructure sectors where continuous technological
upgrading is taking place.
4.      To sustain the rate of economic growth and to provide sufficient
employment opportunities to a growing population, it was estimated in the 7th
Five Year Plan that employment demand would increase at an annual rate of 4%,
or by 40.4 million standard man years between 1985 and 1990. The percentage
share of the manufacturing sector in the total employment would be 14.7% by
1990, as compared to only 10.9% in 1981.



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.      LimLted statistics are available on the training needs at the
craftsman (skilled or semi-skilled) level, as implied by the projected
increase in employment demand. Statistics on the occupational distribution of
the population, obtained from the 1981 Population Census (Annex 5, Tables 1
and 2), provide little guidance as the data are based on the International
Standard Classification of Occupation (1968) which does not distinguish
clearly between the level of skills required by the occupation. According to
the 1981 Population Census, only about 0.5% of the main workers had diploma or
certificate qualification (Annex 5, Table 3). This proportion can hatdly be
used as a guideline for planning.
6.      An estimate was therefore made as to the magnitude of training needs
for craftsman level manpower. In the 7th Five Year Plan, it was projected
that the stock of educated manpower at the degree and diploma levels would
increase by about one-third between 1985 and 1990 (Annex 5, Table 4). It is
estimated that the ratio of technicians (diploma holders) to craftsmen was
around 1:2.7 in 1985. Assuming that this ratio would remain largely
unchanged, the craft-level manpower should also be increasing by around 33%
during this 5-year period. The stock of craftsmen was estimated to be around
1 million in 1980 as compared with only 0.7 million in 1975, representing E
43% growth over the 5-year period from 1975 to 1980 (Annex 5, Table 5).
Taking a conservative estimate that the level of craftsman out-turn remained
roughly unchanged between 1980 and 1986, the stock of craftsmen in 1985 would
reach 1.4 million. To provide for an increase in stock by 33% between 1985
and 1990 and for wastage, the annual supply of craftsmen to the labor force
should reach some 114,000 by 1990. If the rate of growth in the stock of
educated manpower remains relatively unchanged for 1990 to 1995, the annual
supply of craftsmen would be as high as 147,000 by 1995 (Annex 5, Table 6).
7.      The total annual requirement of 114,000 craftsmen by 1990 and 147,000
by 1995 estimated above only gives a very broad indication of the training
demand, with a view to showing that additional resourees are required for
further quantitative improvement to the various vocatLonal training schemes at
the semi-skilled, skilled and highly skilled leve]s.
B. Supp1Y of Skilled ManRower
8.      For the craftsmen training scheme which covers some 65 trades, there
were 852 Government Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and 1035 private ITI
in July 1987, offering a total of 327,109 seats (Annex 5, Table 7). It is
estimated that in September 1985, a total of 93,000 Government ITI trainees
appeared for the craft test, of whom 68,000 passed the test (Annex 5,
Table 8). In 1986, the seating capacity in private ITI accounted for some 30%
of the seating capacity in all ITI (Annex 5, Table 8), or was equivalent to
about 43% of Government ITI capacity.



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
9.      Another avenue for becoming skilled is through the apprenticeship
trainiig scheme. In 1S86, there were about 190,000 apprenticeship places
located in industry for the 134 trades covered by the scheme, of which about
131,500 were taken up (Annex 5, Table 9). In 1985, a total of 48,500
apprentices appeared for the test, of whom 36,000 passed. During the period
from 1978 to 1985, the number passing out appears to have stabilized at around
32,000 to 38,000 (Annex 5, Table 10). It is likely that some of the
apprentices sitting for the apprenticeship test are in fact ex-ITI t:ainees
who have taken up apprenticeship training in industry after 1-2 years of
vocational education at the ITI.  As a result, the total addition to the stock
of craftsman would be much less than the annual output of 36,000.  The
recruitment of apprentices is decentralized to the individual establishments
concerned. Assuming that about 70% of apprentices are ITI trainees, the total
addition to the stock of craftsmen by 'freshers' joining the apprenticeship
scheme is about 10,000.
10.     Taking into account the projected supply of craftsmen from plivate
ITIs, and the capacity available in all ITIs up to 1987, an estimate of the
supply of craftsmen from the craftsmen training and apprenticeship schemes is
given in Annex 5, Table 11. It may be noted that not all craftsmen trained
under the two schemes would eventually enter the labor market. According to
the 1981 Population Census, only about 73% of the certificate and diploma
holders were modern sector workers. This level of participation in the work
force is already high when compared with the overall rate of 33% for the
population. Taking into account non-participation in the work force, the
supply of craftsmen to the labor market is projected to be around 87,400 p.a.
in 1990-1995.
11.     Advanced vocational training is also available at the 6 ATIs, as well
as 16 selected ITIs. Since those undergoing advanced vocational training at
these institutes are already trained craftsman working in industry, they do
not contribute to meeting the additional demand for craftsman.
12.     If the proposed expansion in the craftsman training scheme as detailed
in the Skills Development Project is taken into account, the number of
craftsmen available would be around 91,000 by 1990 and 111,000 by 1995
(Annex 5, Table 12). The resulting supply and demand position is summarized
as below:
Supply of craftsmen
Demand for craftsmen      without Project   with Proiect
1990          114,000                 87,400            91,000
1995          147,000                 87,400           111,000
13.   In addition to the d&mand for craftsmen estimated above, the rationale
for individual project investments further rests with the large, uncharted
demands of the informal sector for training output from ITIs and the need to
improve the overall quality and efficiency of vocational training.



- 65 -
ANNEX S
Tables 1 & 2
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
t,able 1
Percentage Distribution of Total Workers bv Industry. 1981
(Percentage)
Indus=r                     Ma             Female          Total
Cultivators                      43.7            37.5            42.1
Agricultural Laborers             19.8           44.8            26.3
Livestock, Fishing                 2.4            1.8             2.2
Mining & Quarrying                 0.6            0.3             0.5
Manufacturing
Household                       3.2             4.4             3.5
Non-household                   8.9             3.1             7.4
Construction                       1.8            0.7             1.5
Trade & Commerce                   7.3            1.8             5.8
Transport                          3.3            0.3             2.5
Other services                    9.1             5.4             8.1
Total                      1QO0.0          100.2           100.0
Source:  "Census of India, 1981: Report & Tables based on 5% sample data".
Table 2
Percentage Distribution of Total Workers by Occupation. 1981
(Percentage)
Occupation                   Male           Female          Total
Professional/technical            8.6            15.7             9.5
Managerial                         3.4            0.6             3.1
Clerical                         10.7             5.2            10.0
Sales                            14.6             7.3            13.7
Service                           8.5            13.2             9.1
Agriculture & fishery              6.1            8.8             6.4
Production & related             45.4            46.5            45.5
Not classified                     2.7            2.7             2.7
Total                      100.O           100.O           100.0
Source:  "Census of India, 1981: Report & Tables based on 5% sample data".



- 66 -
ANNEX 5
Tables 3 & 4
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 3
Percentage Distribution of Population by EdUcational Attainment. 1981
Total PoDulation                  Main Workers
Education         Male      Female      Total     Male      Female    Total
Illiterate        53.1%      75.2%      63.8%     50.6%      84.4%      57.5%
Literate          13.8%       8.3%      11.1%     10.3%       4.1%       9.1%
Primary           14.2%       8.4%      11.4%     16.0%       5.1%      13.8%
Middle             8.4%       4.2%       6.4%       9.5%      1.9%       8.0%
Matri/Sec          5.9%       2.4%       4.2%      7.7%       1.9%       6.5%
Higher Sec         2.2%       0.7%       1.5%      2.3%       0.5%       1.9%
Diploma/cXrt       0.3%       0.1%       0.2%      0.5%       0.4%       0.5%
Degree             2.1%       0.7%       1.4%      3.0%       1.5%       2.7%
Total       100.0%    1QQ.0j    1           10Q&       100.0% 1%00.0
Source:  "Census of India 1981: Report and Tables based on 5% sample data".
Table 4
Estimated Stock of Educated ManDower. 1985-1990
(millions)
1985               1990           Increase in stock  Projected
Econo.               Econo.    of Education       Stock in 19
Education      Stock    Active       Stock    Active      manpower
Degree           8.9         7.0      11.2        8.9       2.3    33.0%        2.9
Eng. diploma    0.6          0.5       0.7        0.6       0.2    34.8%        0.2
Matric/sec      38.2        23.3       52.4      32.0      14.2    60.b%        19.4
Total        47.7        30.8      64. .4               16.7    54.0%       22.4
Source:  "7th Five Year Plan", Planning Commiss.Lon, 1985, and mission
estimates.



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
Tables 5 & 6
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
lable 5
Institutional Out-turn and Stock of Craftsmen
(thousands)
Year                Out-turn              Stock
1970                  53.6                417.4
1971                  56.2                466.0
1972                  64.1                516.6
1973                  65.8                574.5
1974                  75.1                633.4
1975                  72.8                700.9
1976                  71.8                765.3
1977                  66.8                827.8
1978                  79.6                884.6
1979                  71.8                953.7
1980                  73.5              1,014.0
Estimated wastage rate - 1.2%
Source: Stock and out-turn data from LEM Division, Planning Commission.
Quoted from "Research & Development Statistics 1984-85",
Department of Science and Technology.
Table 6
Estimated Stock of Craftsmen. 1987-1 95
Additional no. of
new craftsmen       Estimated
reguired            Stock
('000)
1986              -               1,380
1987           110,733            1,474
1988           111,863            1,568
1989           112,993            1,662
1990           114,123            1,757
1991           137,014            1,873
1992           138,406            1,988
1993           139,797            2,104
1994           141,188            2,220
1995           142,579            2,336



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Table 7
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Number of ITIs and Total Seating Caoacitv
Government ITIs                          Private ITIs            Grand      Seating
Year    Affil.  Non-affil.  Total    Affil.    Non-aff          Total    Total    CaRacitY
('000)
1980         356        139        495        156        180        336      831        192.7
1981        439         175        614        108        248       356       970        201.1
1982        461         173        634        120        330       450    1,084         223.4
1983        468         193        661        132        368       500    1,161         226.6
1984        407         227        694        140       434        574    1,268         239.5
1985        521         198        719        302        426       728    1,447         264.3
1986        698         127        825        499       400        899    1,724         310.6
198         755          97        852        679        356     1,035    1,887         327.1
Source:  "Annual Reports, 1980-81 to 1986-87" Ministry of Labour (Employment & Training)
Unpublished data for 1987, DCET.



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Table 8
INDIA
VOCATINAL TRAINING PROJECT
Training of Craftsmen in Government ITIs (SeRtember 1985)
No.             No.              %
State              Enrolled          Rassed          Rassed
Andhra Pradesh        4,014           3,153            78.6%
Assam                 2,050           1,080            52.7%
Bihar                 4,454           3,594            80.7%
Gujrat                3,094           2,322            75.0%
Haryana               2,923           2,418            82.7%
Himachal P;-adesh     1,319              857           65.0%
Jammu and Kashmir    1,181               713           60.4%
Karnataka             3,886           1,673           43.1%
Kerala                2,758           1,210           43.9%
Madhya Pradesh        6,96q           4,866            69.8%
Maharashtra          14,542           9,475            65.2%
Meghalaya                 37               3            8.1%
Nagaland                203              112           55.2%
Orissa                2,620           1,955            74.6%
Punjab                9,218           7,271           78.9%
Rajasthan             1,850           1,017            55.u%
Tamil Nadu            7,243           5,913            81.6%
Tripura                 192              133           69.3%
Uttar Pradesh        14,551          11,884            81.7%
West Bengal           4,003           3,560            88.9%
Delhi                 3,249           2,472            76.1%
Goa                   2,309           1,730            74.9%
Pondicherry             230             180           78.3%
Total              92.895          6Z.591           72.8%
Source: Unpublished data, DGET



- 70-                                                        ANNFX 6
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Govornmnt and Private ITI. and Enrollments by State/UTo
(19886-7)
Stat*/UTs                  Government ITIo         Private ITIz        Total     TotoltSeatino             Averes9  Size
Number   Seatin       Number  Soettng    Numb r                          gii.cij  Covt.  Pr vr te  Ov- rall
1 Andhra Pradesh                 49      14,128         193   26,776        242           39,904        266       134      16
2 Arunchal Pradesh                 1         192                               1             192         192                192
3 Assam                          17       3,912                               17           3,912         230                230
4 Bihar                           32      13,246          2       144         34          13,392         414       72       394
5 Co                              11      2,294           3       144         14           2,428         206       46       173
6 Gujarat                         61      14,423         78    6,592         139          20,020         237       72       144
7 Haryana                        80      12,496          22       6s6        102          13,152         156       30       129
8 Himachal Prsd-sh                32       3,344                              32           3,344         105                1CS
9 Jammu and Kashmir               20       2,592                              20           2,692         130                130
10 Karnataka                       33       7,472        172   17,412         206          24,884         226      101       121
11 Korals                          21      10,384        243   26,146         264          36,529         494      103       135
12 Madhya Pradesh                  63      16,392           3      240        6e           16,63.         244       SO       237
13 iaharashtra                    107      36,816         96    8,064         203          48,680         363       64       231
14 Manipur                          6         472                               6              472         79                 79
15 Meghalaya                        2         312           1      1SO          3              492        1S8      160       e64
16 Wizoram                          1         236                               1              236        236                236
17 Nagaland                         1         212                               1              212        212                212
18 Orissa                          16       4,962           2       128        18           6,080         310       64       262
19 Punjab                          96      16,560         16        768       112          17,326         173       48       1S5
20 Rojasthan                       31       4,994         28    1,682          67           6,576         161       61       116
21 Sikkim                           1         112                               1              112        112                112
22 Tamil Nadu                      46      16,424        121   10,096         167          25,620         336       83       163
23 Tripura                          3         612                               3              612        171                171
24 Uttar Prad*sh                   85      27,484         33    2,116         118          29,600         323       64       251
25 West Bengal                     19       9,700           6        96        25           9,796         611       16       392
26 Andamajn A Nicobar Islands                                                   0                0
27 Chandigarh                       2         864           1        16         3              8S0        432       16       293
28 Dadra and Nagar Haveli           1         176                               1              176        176                176
29 Damon A Diu                      2         288                               2              28S        144                144
30 Delhi                           10       6,892         15       580         25           7,472         689       39       299
31 Lakshadweep                                                                  0                0
32 Pondicherry                      3         400          2         96         S              496        133       48        99
Total                         852    228,278        1,035   98,831    1,887            327.109         268       95       173
Source:  *Annu.l Report, 1986-87', Uinistry of Labor (Employment and Training).



- 71 -
ANNEX 5
Tables 10 & 11
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 10
The DeveloDment of ARRrenticeshin Scheme
No. of Seats and Utilization
('000)
Seats            Seats Utilized         % of seats
Year            Locted            ToLal    Women          utilized
1983             188.8            131.5        2.9           69.7%
1984             185.0            131.8        3.1           71.3%
1985             189.0            134.1        3.5           70.9%
1986             190.6            131.5        3.7           69.0%
Sources: "Annual Reports, 1980-81 to 1986-87" Ministry of Labour
(Employment & Training).
Table 11
Number ef ARDrentices Trained. 1964-1985
Number          Number             %
Year              Tested           Rassed              Rassed
1964                   100             70           70.0%
1965                1,180             700           59.3%
1966                4,100           2,410           58.8%
1967                7,920           4,940           62.4%
1968                9,470           6,180           65.3%
1969               11,290           7,690           68.1%
1970               15,110          10,980           72.7%
1971               15,700          11,730           74.7%
1972               18,850          14,000           74.3%
1973               19,000          14,000           73.7%
1974               21,130          15,570           73.7%
1975               23,840          16,460           69.0%
1976               37,310          25,990           69.7%
1977               45,740          31,400           68.6%
1978               53,100          36,520           68 8%
1979               53,560          38,750           72.3%
1980               45,840          33,000           72.0%
1981               45,900          34,320           74.8%
1982               43,200          32,310           75.9%
1983               45,100          34,320           76.1%
1984               43,100          33,400           77.5%
1985               49,500          36,000           72.7%
Sources: "Annual Reports, 1980-81 to 1986-87" Ministry of Labour
(Employment & Training).



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Table 12
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated SuRply of Craftsmen. 1985-1995
Freshers      Estimated No.
No. of ITI                Graduates               from       joining labour
Year     Gov't   Private        Gov't   Private   Total   apprentice          market
1984       694        574          -        -          -          -
1985       719        728      67,591  21,306    88,897    10,000                72,590
1986       825        899      70,026  22,073    92,099    10,000                74,941
1987       852     1,035       80,350  25,327   105,677    10,000                84,907
1988       852     1,035       82,979  26,156   109,135    10,000                87,445
1989       852     1,035       82,979  26,156   109,135    10,000                87,445
1990       852     1,035       82,979  26,156   109,135    10,000                87,445
1991      852      1,035       82,979  26,156   109,135    10,000                87,445
1992      852      1,035       82,979  26,156   109,135    10,000                87,445
1993      852      1,035       82,979  26,156   109,135    10,000                87,445
1994      852      1,035       82,979  26,156   109,135    10,000                87,445
1995      852      1,035       82,979  26,156   109,135    10,000                87,445
Notes:  1.  The number of graduates for the private ITI in 1985 is estimated on
a pro-rata basis tising the estimated enrollment in the private ITI
which is estimated to be around 54,000 (assuming the average size of
the private ITI is 100).
2. The number of graduates in 1985-1995 is projected on the basis of
the growth in the number of ITI 'n the preceeding year.
Source: DCET and Mission estimates.



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
Table 13
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Supply of Craftsmen Resulting from the Proiect. 1985-1995
No. of        Additional no. from project               Estimate no.
graduates               Appren-    Women                joining labour
|ear (existing Rlan)   ITI         tice        ITI     Total         market
1985      98,897            -          -         -          -        72,590
1986     102,099            -          -         -          -        74,941
1987     115,677            -          -         -          -        84,907
1988     119,135            -          -         -          -        87,445
1989     119,135          128          -     1,696      1,824        88,784
1990     119,135          384       300      4,412      5,096        91,186
1991     119,135       8,064        300      7,984    16,848         99,812
1992     119,135      11,094      1,400    12,356    24,850         105,685
1993     119,135      12,800      2,000    17,400    32,200        111,080
1994     119,135      12,800      2,000    17,400    32,200        111,080
1995     119,135      12,800      2,000    17,400    32,200         111,080
Source:  Mission estimates



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Applicant Statistics for Craft
Training in Government
(SeDtember 1985)
Number of             Number             Percentage
State                A,D;licants            Admitted            Admitted
Andhra Pradesh          150,813                5,786                 3.8%
Assam                    19,713                1,546                 7.8%
Bihar                   47,412                 4,605                 9.7%
Gujarat                  57,973                7,751                13.4%
Haryana                  14,988                3,035                20.2%
Himachal Pradesh          3,001                  955                31.8%
Jammu & Kashmir           3,697                1,373                37.1%
Karnataka                28,556                2,519                 8.8%
Kerala                   60,580                1,388                 2.3%
Madya Pradesh            71,713                6,797                 9.5%
Maharashtra             147,101               15,557                10.6%
Meghalaya                   178                   72               40.4%
Nagaland                    808                  254                31.4%
Orissa                  29,637                 2,098                 7.1%
Punjab                  66,682                 8,132                12.2%
Rajasthan                 8,608                2,558                29.7%
Tamil Nadu               58,389                4,395                 7.5%
Tripura                   2,508                  380                15.2%
Uttar Pradesh            75,184               15,596                20.7%
West Bengal              29,696                2,676                 9.0%
Chandigarh                5,725                  426                 7.4%
Delhi                     7,779                1,147               14.7%
Goa                       2,316                  952               41.1%
Pondicherry                 877                  149               17.0%
Total             893.939               90.147                10.1%
Source: Unpublished data, DGET



-   5 -                                                      ANNEX 6
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Introduction of Post ITI Skill Dovolopm.nt Coursen  for Self-Employmnt
Projected Output of Train.. Per-Year
Stat.             No. of ITIs   1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/96    Total
1.  Karnataka                   4             -        24        48        72        96        240
2.  Orissa                      3             -        24        72        72        72        240
3.  Andhra Pradesh              6            48        96       120       144       144        562
4.  Madhya Pradosli             6            24        48        72        96       120        360
S.  Delhi                       3            24        48        72        72        72        288
6.  Tamil Nadu                  8            48        96       144       192       192        672
7.  Kerasl                      4            48        96        96        96        96        432
8.  Assam                       3            24        72        72        72        72        312
9.  Himachal Pradesh            2            24        24        48        48        48        192
10.  Go&                         1            24        24        24        24        24        120
11.  Punjab                      7            72       120       le       168       168        696
12.  Rajasthan                   4            24        48        72        96        96        336
13.  Maharashtra                10             -        48       120       192       240        600
14.  Tripura                     1            24        24        24        24        24        120
16.  Uttar Pradesh              11            96       284       264       264       264      1,162
iS.  Haryana                     5            48       9s        120       120       120        504
17.  Jammu A Kashmir             2            24        48        48        48        48        216
18.  Bihar                       7           168       168       168       168       168        840
19.  Gujarat                     4             -         -        48        72        96        216
20.  Chandigarh                  1            24        24        24        24        24        120
21.  West Bengal                 9            72       144       261       216       216        864
22.  Manipur                     1             -        24        24        24        24         96
Total                101          s81      1.560    2,084    2.304    2.424         9,188
Source: DGET



ANNEX 6
- 76 -                                               TSbloS3
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Establishment of Basic Training Centres
Projoct*d Training Output
No. of Units                   No. of Train;es to be trained
SI No.      State         (20 trainees   1990/91  1991/92  1992/23  1993/94  1994/96   Total
per unit)
1.   Orissa                    5             -      100       100       100       100        400
2.   Punjab                     7            -      140       140       140       140        660
3.   Andhra Pradesh            4             -       80        80        80        80        320
4.   Haryana                   6             -      100       100       100       100        400
5.   D-lhi                    12             -      240       240       240       240        960
6.   Tamil Nadu                8             -      160       160       160       160 140
7.   Gujarat                   5             -      100       100       100       100        400
8.    Maharashtra                5            -      100       100       100       100        400
9.   Bihar                     4             -       80        30        80        80        320
10.   Rajasthan                 6             -      100       100       100       100        400
11.   Karnat.l.                 7             -      140       140       140       140        660
12.   Utter Pradesh            18             -      360       380       360       360      1,440
13.   Kerala                    7             -      140       140       140       140        660
14.   West Bengal               6             -      100       100       100       100        400
TOTAL               97                  1.940    1.940    1,940    1.940         7.7e0
Central Sector                   33            -      660       660       660      e6o       2,840
Grand Total                     130            -    2,60)    2,800    2,800    2,600    10.400
Source: DGET



- 77-                                         ANNEXl 
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
RELATED INSTRUCTION CENTRES TRAINING OUTPUT
(State Sector)
No. of Units
Si                       20 trainees
No.      State            e!r unit          1990-91   1991-92   1992-93   1993-94   1994-9C    Total
1.  Orissa                     5           600        500        SOO       500        500     2,500
2.  Punjab                    9              -        900        900       900        900     3,00
3.  Andhra Pradesh            12         1,200      1,200      1,200     1,200      1,200     6,000
4.  Haryana                   10             -      1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000     4,000
5.  Delhi                      6           500        600        500       600        500     2,600
6.  Tamil Nadu                20         2,000      2,000      2,000     2,000      2,000    10,000
7.  Gujarat                  20          2,000      2,000     2,000      2,000      2,000    10,000
8.  Maharashtra              20          2,000      2,000     2,000      2,000      2,000    10,000
9.  Bihar                      9           460        900        900       900        900     4,060
10.  Rajasthan                  5           SOO        500        SOO       600        500      2,600
11.  Karnataka                 10         1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000O    1,000      6,000
12.  West Bengal                5           600        600        500       600        500     2,600
13.  Uttar Pradesh             18         1,800      1,800      1,800     1,800      1,800      9,000
14.  Assam                     a 600                   800        800       6oo        60       3,000
16.  K-rala                    14         1,400      1,400     1,400      1,400      1,400      7,000
16.  Madhys Pradesh            10             -      1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000     4,000
17.  Jammu A Kashmir            6           SOO        500        500       500        500     2,500
18.  Manipur                    6           600        500        500       500        500     2,600
Total              188         16,4S0    las        18,800    18.800    18.800    90,G60
Central Sector           30          3,000      3,000     3,000      3,000     3,000    16,000
Grand Total        219         18.460    21,80    21,800    21,800    21.800   1066
N.B. 20 Trainees Por Unit for 40 days a year.  As such there will be 6 batches in a year.
Source: DGET and mission estimates.



- 78 -
AzNNEX 6
Table 5
IDA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TENTATIVE TARGET FOR THE NUMBER OF PERSONS TO BE TRAINED
UNDER THE PROPOSED EXPANSION OF AVTS
No. of Training Units Planned to be Operated at    Training
Year                                                                 output
(No. of
ITIs           ATI               Total           Rersons)
1989-90                9              16                 25               600
1990-91               24              16                 40             1,560
1991-92               57              i8                 75             2,760
1992-93               92              20                112             4,488
1993-94              104              25                129             5,784
1994-95              104              29                133             6,384
Total output                                                         21.576
Source: DGET and mission estimates.



-79 -                                           ANNEX 6
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Statee se Trainina Output During the Proloct Period
Opening of New ITIs/Wings for Womn
No.    No. of
S.                            of    Training
No.         State             ITS      Units       1990-91   1991-92   1 M  -93   1993-94   1994-9C   Total
1.    Andhra Pradesh           13       78           144        424        600        700         920      2,792
2.    Assam                     3       18             -        112        208        206         208        736
3.    Gujarat                   4       16            40         96        162        208         224        720
4.    Haryana                   6       30             -          -         16        128         280        424
5.    Kerala                    6       30             -        264        392        392         392      1,440
6.    Madhya Pradesh           10       60             -        128        328        472        S66       1,496
7.    Utter Pradesh             9       62             -          -        376        660         600      1,666
S.    West Bengal               4       24             -          -          -        216         392        608
9.    Maharashtra               9       64             -        176        304        352         516      1,348
10.    Bihar                     8       40             -          -        12d        272         416        816
11.    Karnataka                10       60             -          -          -        216         562        768
12.    Tamil Nadu                S       28             -          -         64        240         392        696
13.    Rajasthan                 4       18             -        128        264        264         264        920
14.    Oriss                     6       36             -         32        160        268         384        832
16.    Punjab                    6       30             -          -         s0        240         336        656
Total             100      574          184       1,360        3.072   4,848       6.444    16,908
Source: DGET and mission estimates.



- 80 -
A&NEX 6
Table 7
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TRAINING OUTPUT DURING THE PROJECT PERIOD
Strengthening of NVTI/RVTIs
SI                        Seating                       OutRut
No.      Institute        capacity  1990-91 1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95  Total
1. NVTI New Delhi
a. Basic skills        64           -       -      32       32      32       96
b. Advanced skills    60            -       -        -      40      40       80
2. RVTI Bombay
a. Basic skills        64           -       -      32       32      32       96
b. Advanced skills    40            -       -        -      40      40       80
3. RVTI Trivandrum
a. Basic skills        64           -       -      32       32      32       96
b. Advanced skills    40            -       -        -      40      40       80
4. RVTI Bangalore
a. Basic skills        64           -       -      32       32      32       96
b. Advanced skills    40            -       -        -      40      40       80
5. RVTI Hissar
a. Basic skills        64           -       -      32       48      48      128
b. Advanced skills    40            -       -        -       -      40       40
6. RVTI Calcutta
a. Basic skills        64           -       -       -       32      32       64
b. Advanced skills    40            -       -        -       -      40       40
7. RVTI Tura
a. Basic skills        64           -       -      32       48      48      128
b. Advanced skills    40            -       -        -       -      40       40
8. RVTI Sharatpur
a. Basic skills        64           -       -       -       32      48       80
b. Advanced skills    40                -       -            -        -       -
9. RVTI Allahabad
a. Basic skills        64           -       -       -       32      48       80
b. Advanced skills    40            -       -        -       -        -       -
Total Basic        576           -       -     192      320     352      864
Total Advanced    360            -       -       -      160     280     440
Total        936           -        -     192     480      632   1.304
Source: DGET and mission estimates.



INDIA
VOCATIOhAL TRAINING PROJECT
CSTARI STAFF TRAINING
Total No                 Number      No. Day                                                       Total   Total  MIx. Istr
to be    Training    Trainmee         per                              _ec                       t        staff  mbo-month
Staff               trained  Coursec /a  each course  course    1ff 199  1990  1991  199219   1994  19l                  s  treade   petr year
DGET Sr. Staff                10          1           10           5         -     1      -     1      -     1    -      1      20      200        0.8
State Directors               30          2           1S           6         -     2      -     1      -     1    -      1      26      375        0.4
State Inspectors              80          a           16          10         -     2      4     -      1     -    1      -      s0     1,200       1.
Principals
*  ITIs (Nw Equip)          400         4           20          10               a 8    2     2      2     2    2      2      290    6,000       4.7
*  ITIc (New/Womn)          60          4           20          10        _      2     2      -      1     -    1      -     SO      1,200       1.0
*  RYTIn/NVTI               13          4           13          10       -1      -      1     1      -     1    -      1      40      520        0.7
Vice Principal,
*  ITI  (No  Equip)         400         4           20          10        -    10      8      2      2     2    2      2      260    5,600       4.7
*  ITIs  (New/Woen)         60          4           16          10        -      2      2     -      2     -    2      -      so      900        1.0
*  RVTIa/NVTI               13          4           13          10        -      1      -     1      -     1    -      1      40      520        0.7
Group Instr ./Supvr.
*  ITIn (Now Equip)        1,200        6           20           6        _    10    16    20    20        2    2      2      855    7,100       5.9         a
*  ITIn (New/Women)         400         6           2C           6         -     6    10      6      1     1    1      1      120    2.400       2.0
*  RVTIu/NVTI               30          6           16           S        -      1      1     1      1     1    1      1      25     387         0.4         l
Superv sore/Heads of:
Regional MR Centers            8          6            8           S         -     1      -     1      -     1    -      1      20       120       0.3
Equip. MR Workshops           19          6           15           6         -     1      -     1      -     1    -      1      20       300       0.3
Equip. MR  Clls (TTI)         100         6           16           6         -     2      3     2      1     2    1      1      so       900        1.0
Placement Cell Suprv.
*  ITIu (Now Equip)         200         7           16           6        -      2     6      6      1     1    1      1     9S      1,275       1.4
a  ITIu (New/Women)         172         7           16           6        -      -     6      a      1     1    1      1      75     1,126       1.3
*  RVTIs/NVTI               13          7           13           6        -      -     1      -      1     -    1      -      15      195        0.8
Curricula/Methods
Staff-NVTI                   4          8           12          16        2      1     1      1      1     1    1      1      120    1,440       2.0
POT Staff RVTIs             24          -            -           -        -      -     -      -      -     -    -      -       -       -         -
/o   For a list and description of courses see next page.
All coursas would be prepared and delivered by CSTARI
Approximately 76S of the courses would be delivered in regions or locations in general proximity to trainee.



- 82 -
Table la
Impacted                               Indicators of                                                        IndSecter. of
9da                                    f_m
1. QualLty of Graftmon
training 1r.e_
a. Upgrade training                   replece obsolete               - N. of ISI vith                    Gnfl   indicator
i Lprowe Later-                  equi_t                           equipmnt rvplaced                 fer th T ISIncluded
nal efficLency                                                    as *aiant target                   in the project,
before & after
effects on:
- Amount of eapeadi-                - the retentlon rate
ture spent on                     - S of out-turns
equlpwmet replace-                  paosing trade tests
ment as against                   - peor assessmnt
M*ounts ce itted                    of changes in the
and *somt budgeted                  quality of training
- establish equip-               - go. of equipment                  SnCiLfic Indicators
mnet maintenance                 maintnance cells                  -    of equipment
cell                             established in ITI,                 functioning wvll
as ag:.4nst the                   - g. of IT1 with
targer                              proper equipment
- go. of equLpm_nt                    *antenance system
m_intensnce work-                 - Evidence of use
shop./centreas                      of A/V teaching
established                         materiels in
t raining
- enhance instructor             - No. of nrv media re-
training through                 source centres
ieproved A/V sup-               establihed
port                           - No. of ITI with modern
- introduce modern                 A/V aids and squLpmant
instructional aid             - Amount of expenditure
spent on A/V equipment,
as against _mount com-
mitted and mount bud-
geted
- No. of instructors
trained on the use of
A/V equipment
- Evidence of production
& disseiLntion .f A/V
traini4ng matris



-83 -
Table lb
Expected                               Indicators of                                                        Indicators of
b. lIaer.e  reoevno               - ltredue eJ                      -  eo. of III Lntrodu-              Cnral indicators
& externol effl-                 trades                           cLaog nw trades                   Per ITI Includ-d  n
.lency                                                          -   . of trainees ad-                th  sche, before
aLtted to programe                and after effects
for new trades                    on:
- conduct training               - Ne. of ITI with                   - Z of pass-outs
for self-employment              skill dv-lop_nt                     employed
courses for self-                 - I of pass-oats
loyinnt                            Self-employed
- No. of trainees ad-               - I of pass-outs
mitted to courses                   beco ing appren-
for self-employoent                 tices
Specific Indicators
- S of pass-outs from
now trade programs
mployed
- Z of pass-outs from
self-employed pro-
areas becoming
self-employed
- evidence of
Industry re-
quirements for
skilled techni-ians
net from new trades
introduced
2.  Apprenticeship                     - provide facil-                 - No. of Basic Training             - S of apprenticeship
training strengthened                itles for practical             Contres established                  seats filled
training in trades             - No. of additional                 - average time to
without facilities               seats for basLc                     place apprentice.
training
- provide facilities            - No. of Related                     - I of apprentices
for related theo-                Instruction Centres                 passing tests
retical instruction              established
-No. of additional                  - 2 of apprentice
seats for related                   pass-outs employed
Instruction
3.  Scope of advanced                  - establish AVTS                 - No. of additional ITI             - No. of pass-outs
skill training                      for critical skill               with AVTS facillties                 from the AVTS
expanded                            areas                          - No. of new AVTS seats              - 2 of AVTS pass-
sanctioned and I                    outs employed
- develop high tech-               filled
nology training                - No. of existing ATI               - Evidence of skill
centres                          with programs in                    upgrading demand
met by advanced
lnstltutlons



- 84 -
Awn92 L
Teble ic
xpaeted                                Indleators of                                                        Iralcetorb of
-No. of seats *enc-                 -  vidence of
tilmed I filled fog                 skilled persoanal
modere pra.ot io.l                  requirm-ets m_t
t ehnlagy pregrm
-  o. of seats eeoc-       -         No. of modern pro-
timned & I filled                   duction technology
Ln the APhK training               pdal-outso L 
eitituto                           employed
- Evid en of Skills
requirement in
modern productlon
technology m_t
4.  Access to skill                    - establish new                  - No. of new womn ITI               - women appileant/ada
dewelopm_at for                     womn  SI                          established                         ratio to Craftsmen
women inereased                   - introduce new                   - No. of new trades                   trainlng scheme
trades in women                  Introduced In women                 No. of Women
ITI                              I                                   out-turns  and I
- establish now RVTT             - No. of additional                   passing tests, and
- strengthen NVI                   seats sanctioned                    I Mploy'd
nd I filled ln ITI                - No. of wown
RVTI for w oen                      pass-outs in
- No. of new trades                   advsnced skill &
nd additlonal seats                 S *SLoyed
created for women                 - Average tn  taken
at advanced skill                   to place women
!eve!                              a*prentIces
- Evdasnce of demand
for sk;ll upgrading
from women workers
Met
5   Improved planning                  - estabiLsh moni-                - No. of states with                - success ln the
& Mnag Me nt capacity               toring * evaluation              monitoring & evalua-                 Lplem_ntation of
at central & state                  systems at central               tion calls                          the project
levels                                 state levels                - Setting up of manage-             - success in imple-
ent support systems                 menting  he project
at DGET like data                   L placMement of
bank documentation a                wo-n pass-otts
placement feedback                  in *eloyment
procedure
- strengthen man-                - Establishment of                  - Iproved per-
agement & iLnl-                  support systems at                  for_ance of
mentatlon capaeity               states like place-                  planners A managers
of central & state             mnnt cellA & resource                 from DX f  to



85-
apected                                 Ileoateve of                                                          Indloatere of
9~~~~k                                                          -- -.                               -_         _
- streastl CS?A*                 - Po. of staff tained,               - me. of res.ardbrs
re    La staff                   an I of targets                      _edmted of sod
development eN                 - Nvidemse of research                 qality
research                         studlee aemiucted                  - Inrease  kasledge
- vocat:,0") train-
ina systm
- odrine adminis-                -  vide.o  of prviston               - Noss in conduct-
trative apparatus                of adequate staff mid                Lag vald snd r.-
for trade testing                equLpment to Trad                    liable tr&ae tests
Testing Cell
6.  Ioproved resource                  - actions to monitor              - evide-ce of better                 - evidence of resource
utilLatlion and                      capital costs by                  maaed/lallocated                    sharigs  lWprovd
Iobilisatlon to                      levl of institution               capital insat_ant                   cost allocation
finance capital                      (center or state), end            n IMSe
and recurr-n- costs                  type of training progra
of training.
- actions to Laprove             - eidene  of improved                -  ovin  uit costs per
allocation of recurrent          allocation of recurrent              trainee closer to
costs by level of insti-         costs                                acceptable norms
tutional (center or stats).
and type of training
progrm
- steps to mobille               - plens end actions to               - increase in percentaSs
;rsources from industry,         increase Industry, end               ITI operating budet
private sector source,           other contributions                  derived from industricl
etc.                             to training                          and private contribution
- steps to reduce the shore    - plans and actions to                 - percentage reduction
of the recurrent cost of         reduce share of costs                in direct and indirect
truining which com_s from        represented by Govern-               training subsidies to
subsidies                        ment subsildies to                   ITIs and students
training



;                                                                      -  8~~~~~~~~~~~6   -
ANNEX 8
Table 1
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TC It; A
VOCATIONSAL TRAINING PAOFECT
PROJECT COST SUMV
(R5s NMill )                                  (tUS Hillion)
% Total                                     4 Total
4 Foreign  Base                             ' Foreign  Base
Local  Foreign Total   Excha e    Costs   Local Foreign Total Exchane   Costs
....... ....... ....... ......... .......  ..... ............... ......... ............... ,..I
A, P)DERNIING THE CRAFTSMAN TRAINING PRCAR
..........................................I
IMdPR0VING  TI IT( ALIT' ANO RELEVANCE
.-    I- -    .1 .. ........... . . . . . .
*tOEPNI:ATT!N OF !TI TRAINING FACILITIES                                  1,2-6.9   392.3 1,669.2            24        34   87.5    26.9 114.3            24       34
',4F'IF94ENT OF EIJIPtENT MINTENANCE SYSTEM                                  191.3    21.5   212.8            10        4   13.1       1.5  14.6          10        4
CPU0vI`QON OF INSTRUCTIONAL AIDS                                             44.8      11.8    56.7          21         1    3.1      0.8   3.9           21        1
MFDA PEEOVRCE CENTEPS                                                        10.,      1.3     12.0          11        0    0.7      0.1   0.8           11        0
'T 1 fTP I trN)N 'F NEW TRADES                                              479.7    85.1   564.8            15       12   32.9       5.8  38.7           15       12
'PAININ; fQP SELF-EMPLOYMENT                                                 42.2       4.3    46.6           9         1    2.9      0.3   3.2            9        1
,     1 t' [FRfOVING IT' )UJALITi AND RELEVANCE                             2,045.7   516.3 2,562.1            20       52  140.1    35.4 175.5            20        52
,  TaENGTHEN!(G 'HE APPRENTI.ESH!P TRAINIW, PROGRAF
rTrARi ! HMENr sOF VASIC TRAINING CENTERS                                 148.3    24.1   172.4            14        4   10.2       1.7  11.8           14        4
:'ApL' SENT 9F RELATED  NSTRUCTION (ENTERS                                   123.8      6.4   130.2            5        3    8.5      0.4   8.9            5        3
R1 'PENGTHENING THE APPRENTICESHIP TPAINING PROGMY                     272.1      30.5   302.6           10        6   18.6       2.1  20.7          10        6
,  ;l PIN', MOCERN SECTOR TRAINING PRIXRA#S FOR aIMEN
..ENT 'I  NEW FACILITIES FOR OIEN                                  495.5     62.9   558.3           11       11   33.9       4.3  38.2           11       11
T L-rq '[(N 'J  NEW TRADES                                                154.0    20.3   174.3            12        4    10.5      1.4  11.9           12        4
A: ,  .JMENT '!F NER QEG!ONAL 40CATIONAL INSTITUTES                       53.8       7.7    61.5          13         1    3.7      0.5   4.2           13        1
F::N',r'ENING; 'HE NV'! & R'*T                                            58.7      8.5    67.2           13        1    4.0       0.6   4.6           13        1
, ' i E.ifC!Nf 'ODERN SECTOR TRAINING PROGRAMS FOa WOEN             762.0    99.4   861.3             12       18   52.2      6.8  59.0           12       18
,             TW'QN1:NC,E  RAF '9AN TRAINING PROGflM                  3,079.8   646.2 3,726.0            17       76  210.9    443 255.2              17       76
ANC 'NH AE .A'"f F  TRA!NING PPOGRPAS
--- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- .... . ...
. u4Ni10N     AvTZ                                                           190.6    79.6   270.a           29         6   13.1       5.5  18.5          29        6
:,F  PIFNT )P .!!H TECHNOLOGY TRAINING                                     377.4   178.0   555.4            32        11   25.8    12.2  38.0            32       11
CANT.;' NC ADVANCED TRAINING PROYRAS                                 568.0   257.7   825.7             31       17   38.9    17.6  56.6            31        17
'Nf.      2ANNTN-    MANAGEMENT & SiPEDVISION
:;2N%'-FN'N, 'Q)'Err TVNAN,EMENT                                            83.0       1.9     .g.9          2        2    5.7       0.1   5.8            2        2
'".(L'.,(ENT '"F TE ST'N4G "FETIFICACION  & DCCVMENTATION                     7.6      0.5       8.1          6        0    0.5       0.0   0.6            6        0
A:N.TNP,r N'NG  0.,F&T  'E'   FCP WCMEN                                    11.3       0.7     12.1           6        0    0.8      0.1   0.8            6        0
. ' :N79NIwENG  "'C ';7AC!                                                        5.2      0.2      5.3           3        0    0.4       0.0   0.4           3         0
* .1  'I,.  'P"NT   TC WNI Al  A:      CE                                 173.7    71.7   245.4            29        5   11.9       4.9  16.8          29         5
'f' '-, 'Nf,N.T 7   ' P'NNING, MANACMEMFNT   - IJPEPRVI ION             280.8    75.0   355.8            21        7   19.2       5.1  24.4          21         7
Vi  '7.;    t                                                         3 928.6   978.9 4,907.5            20     1IO   269 1    67.0 336.1             20      100
436.9   105.7   542.6            19       11   29.9       7,    37            19       11
1 1568   265.0 1 427.8             19       29   45.7    10 7  56.5             5        17
5 528.3 1 349.6 6 877.9            20      140  344.7    85.0 429.8             20      128
.....................................  ................. ......... .......
M. ,    .  .   .......... -- - - - - - - -   - - -  - - -- ....................................       . -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - -  - -- -  - - - -



! S7 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDIA
VOCATIOML TRAINING PROJECT
Project Coonents by Year
(Rs Million)
Total
ease Costs                        .......--
..............    ..................................            (US$
89/90  90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94  94/95 95/96    Rs    Million)
..... ....... ....... ......... ....... .....................................  .......................
A. MODERNIZING THE CRAFTS'W TRAINING PROGRAM
1. IMPROVING ITI QUALITY AND RELEVANCE
MODERNIZATION OF ITI TRAINING FACILITIES                             295.2   341.5   305.9   298.9   256.2 171.5        -  1,669.2    114.3
DEVELOPMENT OF EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SYSTEM                                    52.7    51.9    34.2    25.0  24.9  24.1    212.8        14.6
PROVISION OF INSTRUCTIONAL AIDS                                          -    29.5    15.8       6.6     1.4   2.0   1.5      56.7       3.9
MEDIA RESOURCE CENTERS                                                   -      6.4     1.1      1.1     1.1   1.1   1.1       12.0      0.8
INTROCUCTION OF NEW TRADES                                               -   142.8   202.7    80.8    60.3  41.5  36.7    564.8         38.7
TRAINING FOR SELF-EMPLOYMENT                                             -      7.5     9.0     9.0      7.5   7.3   6.2      46.6       3.2
Sub-Total IMPROVING ITI QUALITY AND RELEVANCE                           295.2   580.4   586.3   430.6   351.6 248.3  69.6  2,562.1    175.5
2. STRENGTNENING THE APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
ESTABLIS*HMENT OF BASIC rRAINING CENTERS                                 -    47.1    53.8    29.2    17.2  12.8  12.2    172.4         11.8
ESTABLISHMENT OF RELATED INSTRUCTION CENTERS                             -    41.9    26.3    15.5    15.5  15.5  15.5    130.2          8.9
Sub-Total STRENGTHENING THE APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRAM                 -    89.1    80.1    44.7    32.7  28.3  27.7    302.6         20.7
3. DEVELOPING MODERN SECTOR TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR WCtMEN
ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW FACILITIES F('R WOMEN                            34.1    89.2   119.6    97.2    86.1  77.1  54.9    558.3         38.2
INTROOICTION OF NEW TRADES                                             8.3    27.9    32.5    32.3    32.7  24.2  16.3    174.3         11.9
ESTABLISHIMENT OF NEW REGIOr,AL VOCATIONAL INSTITUTES                    -      3.4    14.8    17.4    13.0   7.2   5.6        61.5      4.2
STPENGTHENIWG THE NVTI & RVTI                                          3.0    11.1    17.4    15.8       8.9   5.9   5.1      67.2       4.6
Sub-Total DEVELOPING MODERN SECTOR TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR WOMtEN          45.5   131.7   184.4   162.7   140.8 114.' 81.9    861.3          59.0
Sub-Total MODERNIZING THE CRAFTSMAN TRAINING PRCOR                          340.7   801.2   850.8   638.0   525.1 391.0 179.3  3,726.0    255.2
j  ExPANDING ADVANCED TRAINING PROGPAMS
1. ExPANSION OF AVTS                                                        -    73.1    72.9    61.4    33.2  15.0  14.6    270.3         18.5
2. DEVELOPMENT OF HIGH TECHNOLOGY TRAINING                                   .    25.9    73.6   216.8   174.2  38.5  26.5    555.4        38.0
-----.                                       ..-----G--- PLANNING,-MANAGEMENT--.SUPERVISI
Sub-Total ExPANDING ADVANCED TRAINING PROGRAMS                                  -    99.1   146.5   -78.2   207.4  53.5  41.1    825.7         56.6
C. ,MPPOVING NVTS PLANNING, MANAGEMENT 6 SUPERVISION
1. STPENGTHENING PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                      11.5    13.4    11.8    12.0    11.9  12.1  12.1         84.9      5.8
2. IMPROVEMENT OF TESTING CERTIFICATION 6 DOCUMENTATION                      -     0.7      1.7     1.8      1.5   1.2   1.2       8.1      0.6
3. STPENGTHENING DGE&T CELL FOR WOMEN                                              1.0      1.5     2.0     2.3   2.6   2.6       12.1      0.8
4. ;TPFNGTHENING OF CSTARI                                                   -     1.2     0.6      1.9     0.6   0.5   0.5        5.3      0.4
, TAFF DEVELOPMENT & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                              I      61.9    58.0    47.9    26.8  24.8  24.1    245.4         16.8
Subb-T,tal IMPROVING NVTS PLANNING, MANAGEMENT & SUPERVISION                 13.3    78.3    73.6    65.6    43.1  41.3  40.6    355.8         24.4
-----     ------   -------     -- ----     ------   -----     ----  .......     ............
Total BAO'EINE COSTS                                                          354.0   978.5 1,070.9   981.8   775.6 485.8 260.9  4,907.5    336.1
Phis-j l !' ntinclenries                                                    3/ D   113.5   122.1   108.5    84.2  51.2  26.1    542.C         37.2
P,.,-   otincencies                                                         '6.8   132.3   241.2   313.2   320.1 246.3 157.8  1,427.8         56.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                          407.8 1,224.3 1,434.2 1,403.4 1,179.9 783.4 444.8  6,877.9    429.8
Taxes                                                                       33.0    89.9   116.8   152.5   113.9  31.1   1.9    539.1         33.9
Foreign Exchange                                                            92.1   269.2   314.5   335.2   239.7  9% .1   8.7  1,349.6        85.0
March 7. 1989  16:05



INDIA
VEOCATIIWt TAINING PaROJCT
ProDjKt Compntents by Year
Totals Including Cont irQEfwiCs                       Totals Irltidiug CcMnpw.qiets
(Rs Miilios)                                          (U5$ Pillion)
89/90  90/91  91/92   92/93   93/94  94/95 95/96 Total    89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 93(94 94(   95(96 Total
A. ,n3rmIziiG Til CMA1TW TRAINING P806A5
I. IMPROVING. IT! OMI-ITY AND REL.EVANCE
WJOENIZATION OF IT! IMAININ6 FACILITIES                          338.1  421.0  403.8  422.2  386.1 215.3         - 2,247.0  22.6  27.6  25.8  26.2  23.4  16.3       - 141.9
IIEVELOF4(NT 0f EQUIPMENT MAINTENANE StSTEM                          -   66.0   69.4   48.1    31.6  39.8  41.1  302.6          -   4.3   4.4   3.0   2.3   2.4   2.4  36.8
PUIVISIWN Of INSTEJCIIOPI. AIDS                                      -    36.3   20.8      9.3     2.2   3.1  2.5   74.2        -2.4   1.3   0.6   0.1   0.2   0.1   4.7
MEDIA RESOURE CENTERS                                                      7 18    1.5     1.6     1.7   1.8   3.9   16.3       -0.5   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   1.0
INTWIXTIONI OF NEW TWKS                                                  180.9  273.5   115.4   91.8  66.1  62.6  190.8         -13.9  17.4   7.2  S5.   4.0   3.6  49.6
TPAINING FOR SELF-09t0PLO14T                                              9.3    11.8   12.7    11.3  11.7  10.6   67.4         -0.6   0.8   0.8  0.7   0.7  -0.6   4.1
Sub-Iota! IIPUOVING IT! tOJLITY AND RELEVSICE                      338.7   121.3  780.8  609.9   530.6 398.4 118.7 3.498.4   22.6  47.3  49.8  37.8  12.2  23.6   6.9 220.2
2. STRENGTHENING, THE APPUNTICESNIP TPAININ6 Pf0GW
ESTABL19M#N  OF BASIC TRAINING CENTERS                               .   60.4   13.0   41.4   25.9  20.4  20.9  7-'.O           -  4.0  4.7  2.6   1.6   1.2   1.2  15.2
ESTA8II1WWNT Of RELATED INSTWCTION CENTERS                                53.5   36.1    21.8   23.3  24.8  26.4  185.9         -   3.5   2.3   1.4   1.4   1.5   1.5  11.6
Stb-Total STRINGIl#NING 114 AP'PRENICF94IP TRAINING PUOGPAS             -   113.9  109.1   63.2   49.2  45.2  4713   428.0         .   7.5   7.0   3.9   3.0   2.7   2.7  26.8
3- IIELOPING IDl ECTOR10  TIAIINlT CORGI69 MOR lOIN
FSTMBLISIWNT OF KME FACILITIES FOR lENN                           40.4  114.6  16E.6   141.0   132.6 125.3 93.6  809-0    2.1   7.5  10.3   8.7   8.0   1.4   5.4  50.1                       0
INTIEIUTION OF MEN TWIES                                          9.8   35.5   43.9    46.6   5O.3  39.1  21.8  253.0    0.7   2.3   2.8   2.9   3.0   2.3   1.6  I5.6
ESTABLI98INT OF NEN REGIWONL VOCATIWWL INSTITUTES                    -    4.5   20.6   26.1   20.711I.?   9.5   93.3            -  0.3   1.3   1.6   1.3   0.7   0.6   5.7
STRENGTHENING THlE WVTI I AWl!                                     3.6   34.2   24.1   23.7    24.1   9.6   8.6   97.9    0.2   0.0   1.5   1.5   0.9   0.6   0.5  6.1
\..th-Total DEVELOPING MMM SECTOR TRAINING PRGS MOR koIN            53.8  168.6  250.3  231.3   217.1 185.73139.6 1,251.0    3.6  21.1  36.0  24.7  13.2  31.0  8.2  77.6
Stb-Total IIIDEIZING THE CMflTdI TWAINING P90GWM                      392.5 109D3.8 1.140.1  910.4  797.5 629.4 305.6 53179.3   26.2  85.   72.7  56.5  418.4  37.3  31.7 124.6
A. FEXANDING AOVANCED TRAINING PM2G5
I. EXPFESION 01 AVIS                                                    .   92.0   96.0   81.4   50.3  24.0  24.9  376.5           -   6.0   6.3   5.4   3.0   1.6   1.4  23.6
2. DEVELOFNII  01 HIGH TECHINOLOGY TRAINING                             .   31.9   98.8   313.0  267.6  63.8  JISA   820.2         -  2.1   6.3  19.4  16.2   3.8   2.6  50.4
Sub-Total EXPAIIING 051(10 TRAINING PUSWJ                                  -   123.9  196.8  400.4   317.1  87.9  10.0 1,396.1        -  8.1  12.6  24.8  39.3  5.2   4.3  74.0
C. IIPW8VING WIFS PLANNING, WMGlIT S SURVISIOR
I. STREIIIIlINING P80JCT IWA6IWT                                     23.2   16.5    15.5   16.9    11.8  19.4  20.7  320.3    0.9   1.1   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.2   3.2   7.4
IIUROVEIIT 01 TESTING CERTIFICATION  DOCTIINATION                   -    0.9     2.2     2.5      2.3   3.9   2.i    11.8      -  0.1   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.3   0.3   0.7 
3. STRENGTHENING, 06(1T CELL FOR SWIM                                         1 32   2.0      2.8     3.4   4.2   4.5   1.3.2          0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   3.1    *Cr
4. STRENGTHENING OF CSTAIlI                                             -     1.5     0.8     2.7     0.9   0.8  0.8      '.5      -  0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.0   0 .0   0.5       _
S. STAFF 0EVELOPNENT & TECHNICAL ASSlSINACE                           2.1   76.4   76.1'   67.8   40.3  39. 8  41.1  344.2    0.1   5.0   4.9   4.2   2.4   2.4   2.4  23.4
Stb-Total IMPROVING MYTS PIAUING. MANAGMET & SUPERVISIONI               15.3   96.6   91.2    92. 7    64.1  66.2 069.2  501.9    2.0   6.3   6.2   5.8   3.9   3.9   4.0  31.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                     401.8 1,2214.3 1,4 4.2 1,403.4 1. 1799q 783.4 444.8 6K?R? Y   27.2  80.2  91.5S  87.3  72.6  46.4  25.8 429.8
...  ...   ...   ...   ...   ..   .                -..    ..................... ....
-                                                                                                                                                                      
Mac?1989 16 OF



- 89 -
ANNEX 8
Table 4
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Finrcing P1n by Project Coqonmnts
(us) Nilliai)
60VEIEII OF
IW/IDA           INDIA          Total              Local
*---------   ......   Fr.   (ExCI. Outieo  S
AMt   '        AMout   %       AMwt   %    Exci.  Taxes)   Taxes
................... ......   ........  ....  ...     -...... .....  ......    ... .......  ........
A. MODEMIZIIG TIE CMPTSMI TRAINING PROGMW
1. I1901M G ITI QIMLITY AD RELEVAlCE
KKEPIIZATION OF ITI TRAINING FACIUTIES                                106.4  75.0     35.5  25.0   141.9  33.0   33.6    95.8        12.4
DEVELOIWNT OF EQIIPNENT MAINTENWNCE SYSTEIq                           10.9  58.0       7.9  42.0    18.8   4.4    1.8    16.3         0.7
PROVISION OF INSTRUCTIONAL AIDS                                        3.0  63.6       1.7  36.4      4.7   1.1    1.0      3.4       0.4
MEDIA RESOtRCE CENTERS                                                 0.6  57.2       0.4  42.8      1.0   0.2    0.1      i.9       0.0
INTROKUCTION OF NEW TRADES                                             3.0  60.4      19.6  39.6    49.6  31.5    7.4    39.7         2.6
TRAINING FOR SELF-EMPLOYlENT                                           2.4  57.1       1.8  42.9      4.1   1.0    0.4     3.6        0.1
Sub-Total IMPROVING ITi QUALITY AND RELEVANCE                            153.3  69.6     66.9  30.4   220.2  51.2   44.3   159.7        16.2
2. STRENGTWENING THE APPPENTICESHIP TRAINING PROGRA
-- - - - - - - -- - - -  - - - -  I..... .... . .
ESTABLISIHENT OF BASIC TRAINING CENrERS                                9.0  $9.4       6.2  40.6    15.2   3.5    2.1    12.4         0.7
ESTABLISHlENT OF RELATED INSTRUCTION CENTERS                           6.1  52.3       5.5  47.7    11.3   2.7    0.6    10.9         0.1
=- - -    -- -  . ... ..   .. .  -- - - - -I     - -    - - - - - - -
Sub-Total STRENGTHENING THE APPRENTI.ESHIP TRAINING PROGiR                15.1  56.3     11.7  43.7    26.8   6.2    2.7    23.3         0.8
3. DEVELOPING MODERN SECTOR TRAINING PR0RS FOR WO%
ESTAB'LISHENT OF NEW FACILITIES FOR PW*N                              29.4  58.6      20.8  41.4    50.1  11.7    5.6    42.7         1.9
INTRODUCTION OF NEW TRADES                                             9.4  59.8       6.3  40.2    15.6   3.6    1.8    13.3        0.6
ESTABLISSENT OF NEW REGIONAL VOCATIONAL INSTITUTES                     3.3  58.1       2.4  41.9      5.7   1.3    0.7     4.8        0.2
STRENGTHEN;NG THE NVTI & RVTI                                          3.5  57.6       2.6  42.4      6.1   1.4    0.8     5.1        C.2
Sitb-Total DEVELOPING MODER  SECTOR TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR WON            45.6  58.7      32.0  41.3    77.6  18.1    8.6   '4.9          2.9
-- - -    -- - . - - -    - -  .. .. ..     .....       - -  - - - -
&.b-Total MGDERNIZING THE CRAFTSMAN TRAINING PROGRMi                       213.9  65.9    110.7  34.1   324.6  75.5   55.8   248.8         19.9
B. EXPANDING ADVANCED TRAININ PROGRWS
.... ... ... .... ... ... ... .......
1. EXPANSION OF AVTS                                                     12.5  52.8      11.1  47.2    23.6   5.5    6.9    12.6        4.1
2. OEVELOPMENT OF HIG6  TECICLOGY TRAIN!NG                               2.'.0  53.5     23.4  46.5    50.4  11.7   16.0   24.7         9.7
- - - - - - - - - - - - -    .. . .   .. .  ... .  .... .  -- -- -
Sub-Total EXPANDING ADVANCED TRAINING PROGRAMS                              39.4  53.3      34.6  46.7    74.0  17.2  22.9    37.3         13.9
C. IMPSUVING NvTS PLANNING,  ANGENENT & SUPERVISION
1. STRENGTHENING PROJECT MNASGEMENT                                       3 9  52.6       3.5  47.4     7.4   1.7    0.2      7.2       0.0
IMPROVEMENT OF TESTING CERTIFICATION & DOCUMENTATION                   0.4  55.5      0.3  44.5      0.7   0.2    0.0      0.7       0.0
;. STRENGTHENING DGE&T CELL FOR WOMEN                                     nf' h 3.0       0.5  47.0      1.1   n 3   0.1      1.0       0.0
4. STRENGTHENING OF rSTARI                                                0 3  717       n.1 28.1      r.f   C.    0.0       0.4        0.0
5. STAFF DEVElOfMENT & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                              21.4 1ln.0       n.o   o.(K   21.4   5 .)   6.1    15.4
Sub-Toal IMPROvING NVTS PLANNING  FOANAGEWENT & SuPEPWISIN                  26.' 85.6        4.5  14.4    31.2  '.3    6.4    24.7         0.1
Total P'soursewnt                                                            280.0  65.2    149.8  34.g   429.8 IOP n   85.0   310.9         33.9
....... .....  ....... .....   -.- .....  .....  ... r..  ........
~.  .  ...  ...  ... .. ... . . -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Madr&  1  1989  16:oe



- 99 -
ANNEX 8
Table  5
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SJW4ARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
(Rs Million)                                (USS Million)
% Total                                   % Total
% Foreign  Base                           % Foreign  Base
Local  Foreign Total   Exchange   Costs   Local Foreign Total Exchange   Costs
....... m..m.... m....... *.mm.... **mm*.m  inSSmM..... Mumma ......... ..... .,=    ..
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. STANDARD EQUIPMENT             1,933.0   593.8 2,526.8           24      51  132.4    40.7 173.1           24      51
8. HIGH TECH EQUIPMENT               172.0   210.2   382.3          55       8   11.8    14.4  26.2           55       8
C. BOOKS                              18.8     3.3    22.1          15       0    1.3      0.2   1.5          15       0
D. FURNITURE                          19.2     3.4    22.6          15       0    1.3      0.2   1.5          15       0
E. CIVIL WORKS                      440.5    77.7   518.2           15      11   30.2      5.3  35.5          15      11
F. LOCAL TRAINING                   150.1      7.9   158.C           5       3   10.3      0.5  10.8           5       3
G. OVERSEAS TRAINING                  4.5    40.7    45.2           90        1    0.3     2.8   3.1          90        1
H. LOCAL EXPERTS                     15.3        -    15.3           -       0    1.0        -   1.0           -       0
1. FOREIGN EXPERTS                    5.8    23.1    28.9          80        1    0.4      1.6   2.0         80        1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               2,759.2   960.2 3,719.4           26      76  189.0    65.8 254.8           26       76
Physical Contingencies              320.0   103.8   423.8          24        9   21.9      7.1  29.0          24       9
Price Contingencies                 706.0   257.2   963.2          27       20   27.9    10.4  38.3           27      11
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES        3,785.2 1,321.1 5,106.4           26     104  238.8    83.3 322.1           26      96
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. HONORARIA                       110.4        -   110.4           -       2    7.6        -   7.6           -       2
B. MISCELLANEOUS                    40.8      2.1    42.9           5       1    2.8      0.1   2.9           5       1
C. INCREMENTAL SALARIES            702.4        -   702.4           -      14   48.1        -  48.1           -      14
D. INCREMENTAL MAINTENANCE         188.6      9.9   198.5           5       4   .2.9      0.7  13.6           5       4
E. TA/DA ALLOWANCES                  0.3        -     0.3           -       0    0.0        -   0.0           -       0
F. CONSUMABLE MATERIALS            126.9      6.7   133.5          5        3    8.7      0.5   9.1          5        3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                1,169.4    18.8 1,188.1            2      24   80.1       1.3  81.4          2      24
Physical Contingencies              116.9      1.9   118.8          2        2    8.0      0.1   8.1          2        2
Price Contingencies                 456.8      7.8   464.6          2        9   17.8      0.3  18.1           2       5
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES        1,743.1    28.4 1,771.5            2      36  105.9       1.7 107.7          2      32
............ a =w ..,====..........a..... =.== -,= ....=.= ==. ........=..-.. -.........= ..=. ==.=.=
Total BASELINE COSTS                  3,928.6   978.9 4,907.5           20     100  269.1    67.0 336.1           20     100
Physical Contingencies               436.9   105.7   542.6           19      11   29.9      7.2  37.2          19      11
Price Contingencies                1,162.8   265.0 1,427.8           19      29   45.7    10.7  56.5           19      17
Total PROIECT COSTS                   5,528.3 1,3'9.6 6,877.9           20     140  344.7    85.0 429.8           20     128
marrh 7  1989  16!05



- 91 -
ANNEX 8
Table 6
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Su ary Accounts by Year
Base Costs
(Rs Million)                      Foreign Exchange
89/90 90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94 94/95 95/96 Total       %    Amount
s.s. ..=.... .5=..= =.=...= =...=.=.   ....==                  ... .=..5=
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. STANDARD EQUIPMENT      319.2  598.2  618.9  455.2  341.1 194.1    - 2,526.8   23.5    593.8
B. HIGH TECH EQUIPMENT         -   33.7   71.3  166.1  110.8  0.3    -  382.3   55.0    210.2
C. BOOKS                     1.6    3.2    5.3    4.5    4.0  3.6    -   22.1   15.0          3.3
D. FURNITURE                 0.8   15.3    2.6    2.4    1.4    -    -   22.6   15.0          3.4
E. CIVIL WORKS              15.6  156.5  150.2  102.9   66.9  26.1    -  518.2   15.0        77.7
F. LOCAL TRAINING            0.1   28.7   29.1   27.3   24.6 24.1  24.1  158.0    5.0         7.9
G. OVERSEAS TRAINING         1.5   20.8   15.5    7.3        -    -    -   45.2   90.0       40.7
H. LOCAL EXPERTS             0.1    3.4    3 9    5.1    2.2  0.7       -   15.3    0.0       0.0
1. FORFIGN EXPERTS           0.1    9.8    9.5    9.5       -    -    -   28.9   80.0        23.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS        339.0  869.7  906.3  780.3  551.0 249.0 24.1 3,719.4   25.8    960.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. HONORARIA                  -   13.0   18.3   19.3   19.8 20.0 20.0  110.4    0.0          0.0
B. MISCELLANEOUS            0.7    7.7    8.0    6.6    6.4  6.7  6./   42.9    5.0          2.1
C. INCREMENTAL SALARIES    12.2   66.7   96.1  117.5  130.8 139.6 139.6  702.4    0.0        0.0
D. INCREMENTAL MAINTENANCE    0.9   11.3   24.4   35.1   41.7  42.6 42.6  198.5    5.0       9.9
E. TA/DA ALLOWANCES           -    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  (.C  0.0    0.3    0.0          0.0
F. CONSJMABLE MATERIALS     1.2   10.0   17.8   23.0   25.9 27.8 27.8  133.5    5.0          6.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS          15.0  108.8  164.6  201.5  224.5 236.8 236.8 1,188.1    1.6      18.8
Total BASELINE COSTS           354.0  978.5 1,070.9  981.8  775.6 485.8 260.9 4,907.5   19.9    978.9
Physical Contingencies       37.0  113.5  122.1  108.5   84.2  51.2 26.1  542.6   19.5    105.7
Price Contingencies          16.8  132.3  241.2  313.2  320.1 246.3 157.8 1,427.8   18.6    265.0
Total PROJECT COSTS            407.8 1,224.3 1,434.2 1,403.4 1,179.9 783.4 444.8 6,877.9   19.6  1,349.6
==s= -====  =.=-S==5  =- ==  -      = . = ... 5= 5u*=.=.  =...5= .. .....=
Taxes                        33.0   89.9  116.8  152.5  113.9 31.1  1.9  539.1    0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange             92.1  269.2  314.5  335.2  239.7  90.1  8.7 1,349.6    0.0        0.0
March 7, 1989  16:05



INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Suumaty Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                        Totals Incitding Contingencies
(Rs Million)                                          (US$ Million)
89/90  90/91   91/92   92/9?   93/94  94/95 95/96 Total    89/90 90/91 91/9? 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 Tot3l
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. STANDARD EQUIPMENT         366.2  737.3  817.1  643.1   514.0 311.6        - 3,389.2  24.5  48.3  52.1  39.9  31.2  18.5       - 214.4
B. HIGH rECH EQUIPMENT            -   41.8   94.9  236.6  168.1  0.5          -  541.9       -   2.7   6.1  14.7  10.2   0.0      - 33.7
C. BOOKS                        1.8    3.9    6.9       6.3     6.0   5.8     -   30.8    0.1   0.3  0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3        -   1.9
0. FURNITURE                    1.0   19.0    3.5       3.4     2.1     -     -   29.0   0.1   1.2  0.2   0.2   0.1         -     -   1.9
E. CIVIL WORKS                 19.5  211.1   218.5   160.8   111.8  46.7      -   768.6    1.3  13.8  13.9  10.0   6.8  2.8       - 48.6
F. LOCAL TRAINING               0.1    35.3    38.3    38.5    37.0  38.6 41.1   228.9    0.0   2.3  2.4   2.4   2.2   2.3   2.4  14.1
G. OVERSEAS TRAINING            1.8   25.8   20.7   10.4          -     -     -   58./   0.1   1.7  1.3  0.6                -     -  3.8
H. LOCAL EXPERTS                0.1     4.2     5.1     7.1     3.3   1.2     -   20.9    0.0   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.2   0.1       -   1.3
I. FOREIGN EXPERTS              0.2   12.1   12.6   13.5          -     -     -    38.4   0.0   0.8  0.8   0.8       -     -     -  2.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           390.7 1,090.5 1,217.6 1,119.8   842.4 404.3  41.1 5,106.4  26.1  71.5  77.7  69.5  51.1  24.0  2.4 322.1
===,=  ==.= ====.= .===== ====_ ==== ==== ===.== ===. =wa ==. .... ..... ...........
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. HONORARIA                     -    16.0   24.1    27.2    29.7  32.0  34.1   163.1       -   1.0   1.5   1.7   1.8   1.9   2.0   9.9
B. MISCELLANEOUS               0.8    9.5    bO.5    9.3       9.7  10.8  11.5   62.1    0.1   0.6  0.7   0.6   0.6   0.6  0.7   3.8
C. INCREMENTAL SALARIES       14.0    82.0  126.A   165.4  196.5 223.4 237.9 1,045.6    0.9   5.4  8.1  10.3  11.9  13.2  13.8  63.6
D. INCREMENTAL MAINTENANCE     1.0   13.9   32.1    49.4    62.6  68.2  72.6   300.0    0.1   0.9   2.0  3.1   3.8   4.0   4.2  18.1
E. TA/DA ALLOWANCES              -    0.1      0.1    0.1      0.1   0.1   0.1     0.4      -  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
F. CONSUMABLE MATERIALS        1.4    12.3   23.4    32.3    38.9  44.6  47.5   200.4    0.1   0.8   1.5  2.0  2.4   2.6  2.7  12.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS             17.2   133.8  216.6   283.7   337.5 379.1 403.7 1,771.5    1.1  8.8  13.8  17.6 20.5  22.5  23.4 10;.7          >  z
Total PROJECT COSTS               407.8 1,224.3 1,434.2 1,403.4 1,179.9 783.4 444.8 6,877.9   27.2  80.2  91.5  87.1  71.6  46.4  25.8 429.8          CO o
March  ....    ==7, 198..,- =-= ===    ===== === -9....   ..... ===-:  --= ... -JS  =.... ..  . a.  .....
March 7, 1989 16 '05



93  -
ANNEX 8
Table 8
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Financing Plan by Sumary Accoun;t
(US$ Million)
GOVERNMENT OF
IBRD/1DA         INDIA          Total              Local
-------------  -------------  ------------  For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %      Amount   %    Amount   %    Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
.,_ .. .... ..............  .......   ......  ........ .... ........ .....    .......  ...... a..... ........
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. STANDARD EQUIPMENT             160.8  75.0      53.6  25.0   214.4  49.9   50.8   144.8          18.8
B. HIGH TECH EQUIPMENT             18.5  55.0       15.2  45.0    33.7   7.8   18.6       2.6       12.6
C. BOOKS                            1.5  80.0       0.4  20.0       1.9   0.4    0.3      1.6          -
D. FURNITURE                        1.1  60.0       0.7  40.0       1.9   0.4    0.3      1.5        0.1
E. CIViL WORK,                     29.2  60.0      19.4  40.0    48.6  1;.3    7.3    39.4           1.9
F. LOCAL TRAINING                  14.1 100.0       0.0   0.0    14.1   3.3    0.7    13.4             -
G. OVERSEAS TRAINING                3.8 100.0          -     -      3.8   0.9    3.4      0.4          -
H. IOCAL EXPERTS                    1.3 100.0          -     -      1.3   0.3       -     1.3          -
1. FOREIGN EXPERTS                  2.4 100.0          -     -     2.4   0.6    2.0       0.5          -
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               232.8  72.3       89.3  27.7   322.1  75.0   83.3   205.4         33.4
11. RECIJRRENT COSTS
A. HONORARIA                       5.0  50.0       5.0  50.0      9.9   2.3        -     9.9          -
B. MISCELLANEOUS                   1.9  50.0        1.9  50.0     3.8   0.9    0.2       3.6          -
C. INCREMENTAL SALARIES           33.1  52.0      30.5  48.0    63.6  14.8         -    63.6          -
0. INCREMENTAL MAINTENANCE           -      -     18.1 100.0    18.1   4.2    0.9    17.2             -
E. TA/DA ALLOWANCES                0.0  50.0       0.0  50.0      0.0   0.0        -     0.0          -
F. CONSUMABLE MATERIALS            7.3  60.0       4.9  40.0    12.2   2.8    0.6    11.1           0.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 47.2  43.9      60.4  56.1   107.7  25.0    1.7   105.4           0.5
Total Disbursement                    280.0  65.2    149.8  34.8   429.8 100.0   85.0   310.9           33.9
=s3=3==33=-     =    =3 ...........  .33.3  .....3 .....  ....3    33...33....
March 7, 1989 16:05



VOCATlONAL TRAINING PROM'! I
Sr7y Acoost by P-ojet (cq9net
IUTEREIZIRO THE CRAFISPN TPAINIRG PROGRAM
EEVI LOPINGOMM IRN .1F1I7TO
TRAINIRO PROGREMI FOR1 WPAWN
STRENGTNENING THE       -------                                                              IMPROVING NETS PLANNING, IWNtEM  It UIMENVISISN
IIN'WIAIWO  FTI 59UAEITY AND RDIFVANCE               AEPPENTICESHIP                           f tART               EXPAN)INO ADVMNCED      -------------------------------
--- -- --------------   -------    TRAINIWO P8OGRP8                                          ISAm                TRAINING PROG5805                      [SEE-_
DElVELOP-                                        ----------   ESTE                           1%PlEAT----                                               LISA-      EIWWR
P)EE9I - PINT OF                                           ESTRA-    ESTAR-        LisA-              OF NEW                            DEVELOP-                  PINE      OUAl  OF                               STAFF
ATIONd  FEUIF-   PROW19I                       TRAIN-    LISA-        11514-     PEIN  or          AESION                             PINT Of                 OF 01M-   TESTIS                                  DEVELOP-
0r  7I    WHNT   SEER OF              INTRO-  ING FOR  MINT OF    PINT Of          NEEU   INTRO-  At VOWR SIRERTH-                    A  HEGH   STRIRNG4        TORNES    CATYFI-   STUWEP                      gm   I
TRAINING MAEINTEN- INSIREIC-  '(DIR    DifIION  SALE-    BASIC        RELATED     FAClI-  ME TIER  TUSRI    [MNEG          EEE'ANI    TECINOE       ENWES     I (VAIR-   CATION &        ONIlS      51351K    TIOUI
10A:1!-    ANtE    [ORAL   RESOURtE OF NEW  [PILOT-  TRAINING 1N50R1UCTION  TIES EON Of NRW   INSTI  fRE NYTI                 SION        LOGE      PROJECT      ATION   DWUEKNTA-  138T CELL    IIS6    CAL. ASS!-
T IOS    SYSTEM    AIDS   CENTERS  TRADES   MINT    CENTER         CENTERS       WO(N    TRADES   TTfTES    A NVTI        OF ARES   TRAINING  IWAROEPIT   SYSTEM            TION      PUM         * O  CITE!   SlICE       Total
IN1VE'TMENT (QSTS
ASTEAMDARD EROEIPANT              1.669.?      71.0      48.7       5.3   278.8    16.9        76.8          1.6      159-A    53 0       19.0       I5~         41.9        65.5          6.0          -1.8                     1.6        0.6            -2.26.8
6  8G114 TECH EQUJIPMENT                                                    -                   - -      - ---                                                   1.6        266.6-    -                              -             -           -           -     V 3~-
1800K5                                -                    -        -                            -            -       O        10.9                                -         1.1            -          --                        -         0.E           -      fli
OEORIAIEIE-                                       -                                                          13.2          -       -       0.0        0.9           -         A-3          0.8          -0.3                    0-2         0.!                  22.6
1I AlL WSAKS-                                19.I1                       104.0        -      36.0          26.8      131.7    34.6      27 4       27.8        27.4        82.0-                       - -                 -           -           -           S18.2
IIICAL  TRAINING                                                               -       -          --                       -       --                                                                                                          -      358.0    108.0
OVECWRSEAS TPAINIRONG-                                                                -          --                      -        -                                                                                                          -        45.2      AS-2
LOCKAL [EXER'S                         -         -        -         -        -        -          --                      -                                                                             ---                                 2.0        13.3      IS.3
I  FOREJIG [EXPEEIS                     -         -         -         -        -       -          --                      -        -                                                         -----                                                     28.8      2819
Total INEESiPINT COSTS               1,669.2      98-I      48.7       5.3   382-A     16-9      112-A         41.2      303.5    u-s5       41.2       43.9       184.9       421.6          6-A8                    2.1           1-8         ZR8      245.4  3.719.4
1. REECERRENT COSTS
A O30ARIA                             -         -         -        -        -    22.7           -         8AK5S                  - -                              -        1.2             -          --                        -           -           -     110.4
B. MESCLLANEOtS                                       --                               -         --                       -       .       3.8        5.5        12.2         LA8          /.E                       -          6.6                  -           42.9
I~ INCREMEINTAL. SALARIES                     83.5         -       5.9   102.5         -      46.4             -     179.9    55.4       11.8       1]-2        43.7        98-9         69.9          -5.8                    3.5         2.4            -    TER
f)INCREJNTAI. MAINTENJWE                    12.I       8.0       0.9    47.2      2.4       13.3          2.6       29.4      9.?       2.8        3A8        24.0        41.3          1.2           -0.2                   0.2          0.1                 In1.5s
Y  TA/OARALLNIANFS                                    -         -        -        -         -           -           -         -             .          -           -         0.3-                      - -                 -            -           -            0.3
I  CONSIRNELE MINERIALS                -      27.2         -         -    32.4      4.6          -             -      45.t    11.4        1.9        _.8         5.4         2.4            -----133.5
Total RECURREN  COTS                             1 I2.7      8.0       A.?   182.0    29.?        59.6         19. 1     254.7    ".,,       21. 3      23.3        85.4       139-A         /RE            -         6.0          10-3         2-5           -  1.18W-i
T.Oal RASELINE COSTS                  1.669.2    212.18    56.7        12.0   564.8    46.6       1721.4        1391' 2     s      174-    61.5          67 2       270.3       555.4         84.9           -8.1                   12.1         5.3       245.4  4.901.5
E9tys'IRl LonTtigewies               166.9      23.?       5.7       1.2    66.9      4.71      20.6          15.l      *q.,    20."        1.9        9.5        29.4        63.7          A-S                     0.8           1.2        0.5         24.5    W42.6
Pro   C-t,nqcm-e                     410.9      66.6f     11.9       9.1   159. 1    I6.?       48.8         40 I      101       5?1       22.8       21.2        76.5       201.0         26.7          -3.0                    4.9          1.?        74.2  1,427.8
Total COLlEC(T COSTS                  2,247.0     30.6       79.2      16.3   790.8    67.34      2421.0        185 9     FM 1.   :57 n       93.1       97.9       376.5       8'0.2        120.1                     11.8         18.2         7.s       344.2  6 877.9
Tan-s                      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~196.8  10.8  5-5  0.6    40 2    2.3       11.0          2.1      ;9' 4      9.0      3.4        3.6        65.2       157.8           0.7                     0 1.2        0.2         0.1            -    939.1
EF.-.tq  Echange                     532.6      29.0      15.4       l.A   115.8      5.9       32.8          8.-6      11..'   28.6       11.4       12.0       10R.R       2519.5         ?.                      0.7           I.E        01.2        98.2  I 949.6
Narrh 21. 1989  11:26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -



INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
IRAAKIOWIN OF SUItMARY ACCOUNTS
(USS Miillion)
8ase
Base Costs             Physical Continqencies         Price Continqencies            'otal Incl. Cont.        Physical    Costs +
Local                        Local                        Local                         Local                  Price Cant. Cont. On
For.  (Excl. Outies A        For.  (Exc1. D)uties S       For.  (Excl. Duties 6         For.  (Excl. Duties 6        on Physical    Base
Fxch. Taxes)  Ta:xes   Total Exch. Taxes)  Taxes   Total Exch. Taxes)  Taxes   Total  fxch. TaxesT  Taxes   Total    Cont.         Costs
1. INVESTT%Nl COSTC
A. STANKDARD EQFUIPMENT        40.7  117.2    15.2 173.1   4.1   11.7        1.5  17.3   6.1   15.9        2.1  24.0   50.8  144.8     18.8 214.4         19.5    194.9
A. HIGH TFCH FIQUIPF'NT        14.4    2.0      9.8  26.2    1.4   0.2        1.0  2.6    ?.7    0.3       1.8  4.9   18.6   2.6       12.6  33.7           *.1      3t.6
C. BOOKS                        0.2    1.3        -   1.5   0.0   0.1          -  02    0.0    0.?          -  0.3    0.3    1.6         -   1.9           0.2       1.7
0. FURNITURE                    0.2    1.3      0.1   1.5   0.0   0.1        0.0   0.2    0.0   0.1        0.0  0.2    0.3    1.5       0.1   1.9           0.2       1.7                    LA
F. CIVIL WORKS                  5.3  28.8       1.4  35.5   1.1    5.8       0.3   7.1    0.9    4.9       0.L   6.0    7.3  39.4       1.9  48.6          8.1      4iJ5I
F. LOCAL TRAINING               0.5   10.3        - 10.8   0.1    1.0          -   1.1   0.1    2.0          -  2.2    0.7   13.4         -  14.1           1.3      '.8
G. OVFRS'AS TRAINING            2.8   0.3         -   3.1    0.3    0.0        -  0.3    0.3    0.0          -  0.4    3.4    0.4         -   3.8          0.3        3.4
H. LOCAL FXPERTS                  -    1.0        -  1.0       -   0.1         -  0.1        -   0.2         -  0.2       -    1.3        -   l.i           0.1       1.2
1. FORIGAN fxPERTS              1.6   0.4         -  2.0   0.2    0.0          -  0.2    0.2    0.0         -  0.3    2.0    0.5          -  2.4           0.2       2.C
Total INVFSTWNT COSTS             65.8  162.6    26.4 254.8   7.1   19.1        2.8  29.0   10.4  23.7       4.2  38.3   83.3  205.4      33.4 322.1         33.0    289.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. HONOARIA                      -    7.6        -  7.6       -   0.8         -  0.8        -    1.6        -   1.6      -   9.9         -  9.9           0.9        9.0
B. ItSCELLANEOUS              0.1    2.8        -  ' 9    0.0    0.3         -  0.3    0.0    0.6          -  0.6    0.2    3.6         -   3.8          0.3        3.5
C  IWCRI1(INTAL SALARIES         -  48.1         -4U.1        -   4.8             4.8       -   10.6        -  10.o      -  63.6         - 63.6           5.8       57.8
D. INCREIENTAt 14AINT1FNANCE   0.7   12.9        - 13.6   0.1    1.3          -   1.4    0.2    3.0         -   3.2   0.9   1V.2         -  18.1           1.6      16.5
E. TA/OA ALLOWIANCES             -   0.0         -0.0         -   0.0             0.0      -   0.0              0.0           0.0        -  0.0           0.0        0.0
F. CONSULIABtE MATFRIALS       0.5    8.3      0.4  9.1    0.0    0.8       0.0   0.9    0.1    1.9       0.1   2.i   0.6   11.1       0.5  12.2          1.1       11.0
----     ------                                                                                                _   _   _ _  _    _
Total RECURRENT COSTS              1.3  79.7       0.4  81.4   0.1    8.0       0.0  8.1    0.3   17.7        0.1  18.1    i.7  105.4      0.5 107.7          9.8       97.9
Total                              67.0  242.3    26.8 336.1    7.2  27.1        2.8  37.2   10.7  41.5        4.3  56.5  85.0  310.9      33.9 429.8         42.8      387.0
March 7. 1989  16:05
oi X



INOIA
VOCATIONAI TRAINING PTIIIE(l
BRFAKf)VWN Of SUIMIARY AC('OUNIS
(Rs Mi IlI ion)
Base Costs               Physica' Continqen<ies            Price Continrencies                   Total Inrl. Cont.              Physical
-------------    ---------------------------- --   ----- - ---------------------  Cont. PIuS   Base Costs
Local                           local                           local                                  LociI                      Price CoAt.   * Price
For.  (ExdI.  [uties I           for.  (txl. Duties S           For.  (Fx.l.  Duties A                        (ExIl.  Duties S           an Fhtysical   Cant. an
Exch. Taxes)   Taxes   Total    Exch. Taxps)  Taxes   Total  Fxch. Taxes)   Taxes   Total    For. Exch. Taxes)   Taxes   Total               Cont.     Wase Costs
1  iNVVSTITMNT COSTS
A  STANIARD, FQIIIPHENT        993.8 1,711.6    221.3 2,526.8   59.4  Ill.Z        22.1 252.7  150.2   406.        53.4   609.8        803.4 22789.0    296.9 3,389.2           308.1      3,081.1
R. HIGH TECH  QtUIPWFNT        ?10.2    29.3    142.7   382.3   21.0    2.9        14.3  38.?   67.?      8.9      45.3   121.4        298.5    41.1    202.3   541.9            49.3       492.6
f. BOOKS                          3.3    18.8         -    22.1    0.3    1.9         -  2.2    1.0       S.9         -     6.5          4.7    26.1          -    30.8           2.8         28.0             1
D). FURNITURF                     3.4    18.3      0.9    22.6    0.3    1.8        0.1   2.3    0.6       3.3      0.2     4.1          4.4    23.5        1.2    29.0           2.6         26.3
F. CIVIL WORKS                  71.7   419.8      20.7   518.?   15.5   84.0        4.1 103.6   21.8  lIq.O         5.9   146.7        11S.1  622.8       30.7   768.6          128.1       640.5            C
F. IOCAt TRAINING                7.9   ISO.1         -   18.0    0.8   15.0          -  15.8    2.9    57.2          -    SS.1         11.6   217.3         -   228.9          20.8        208.1
G. OVFRSFAS TRAINING            40.7      4.5         -    45.2    4.1    0.9              4.5    8.1     0.8               9.f         S2.9      5.8         -    58.7           5.3        51.3
H. LOCAI ETP[RT,                    -    1S3               15.3      -    1.S         -   1.9       -     4.1         -     4.1             .   20.9          -    20.9           1.9         19.0
1. FOREIGN EXPFRTS              23.1      S.8        -    28.9    2.3    0.6              2.9    S.4      1.2               6.6         30.8      7.6              38.4          3.5         34.9
T tal INVLSTIINIT COSTS           960.? 7,373.6    385.7 3,'!9.4  103.8  279.3        40.6 423.8  2S).7   601.2    104.8   9613.        1,321.1 3,254.1    531.1 5.106.4           522.4     4,583.9
1. RCURRINT CosTS
A. WfthT#ARIA                      -   110.4         -   110.4      -   11.0         -  11.0            416          -    41.6            .   163.1          .   163.1          14.8        148.2
P. NISCtFtANFOUS                2.1    40.8         -    42.9    0.2    4.1          -   4.3    0.8    14.1          -    14.9          3.1    S9.0          -    62.1           5.6        56.5
(. INCRFEHNTAI SAIAQIES            -   702.4         -   702.4      -   70.2         -  70.2       -   272.9         -   272.9            - 1,045.6         - 1,045.6           95.1       90. 5
0. INCRFEHNIAI HAINTENANCE      9.9   188.6          -   198.S    1.0   18.9         -  19.9    4.2    77.3          -    81.6         '5.2   284.8          -   30G.0          27.3       272.7
F. IA/BA ALLOiWANCIS               -     0.3         -     0.3      -    0.0         -  0.0        -     0.1         .     nlI             -     0.4         -     0.4           0.0         0.4
F. CONSU tA8tf I4ATFRIAIS       6.7   121.5       5.3   133.5    0.7   12.2        0.5  13.4    2.8    48.6        2.1    93.S         10.1   182.3       8.0   200.4           18.2        12.2
Intal RECURRENT COSTS               18.8 1.164.0      5.3 1.188.1    1.9  116.4        0.5 118.8    7.8   454.7        2.1   464.6         28.4 1,735.1       8.0 1,771.5          161.0     1,610.5
To,tal                             978.9 3,537.6    391.0 4,907.5  105.7  395.7        41.? 542.6  265.0 j,05S.9    106.9 1,427.8        1,349.6 4,989.2    539.1 6,877.9           683.5     6,194.4
-4I.
Marsh 7, 1989  16:09
*   *U



- 97 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
YOCATONAL TRAININC PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Introduction
1.          Technical assistance, in the form of training and expert services,
is an important means of achieving technology transfer in the development
process   The following assumptions underlie the use of technical assistance
in this project: (a) foreign expert services and international fellowship
training should not be used when equally competent and relevant national
expert services and training are available; (b) wherever possible, foreign
expert services should work in conjunction with national experts to provide
concextual translation and adaptation of nsw skills, knowledge and attitudes
to the local environment; and (c) the benefits of training should always be
institutionalized by integrating the newly acquired knowledge, know-how and
attitudes into existing training activities and other avenues of
dissemination. Technical assistance should also facilitate timely
implementation of the project and will be phased over the first four years
according to the availability of physical facilities and other resources, with
sound integration of consultant and fellowship schedules. The technical
assistance requirement has been assessed in relation to each component and
sub-component of the project.
Modernizing the Craftsmen Training Program
2.          Improving ITI Quality and Relevance.  To accompany the extensive
replacement and modernization of priority workshop equipment, the Government
intends to develop a comprehensive maintenance and repair capability based on
six regional maintenance service centers, a nodal ITI in each of the larger 19
participating States, and equipment maintenance cells in 100 selected ITIs.
The project will provide 552 in-country fellowships cf bftween one and six
,nonths duration for key staff of equipment maintenance workshops and cells.
This total comprises the principals of 19 ITIs, who will undertake one month
of training, the Vice Principals of these 19 ITIs for three months training,
119 maintenance workshop foremen for four months training, and maintenance
workshop mechanics for six months training, making a total of 2922 months.
Twelve staff from the six regional service centers will undertake
international fellowships of three months duration to enable them to act as
key multiplier agents of the proposed system.
3.          The instructor training capability of 10 institutions together
with audio visual aids will be enhanced, and modern instructional equipment
for 400 ITIs will be provided by the project. Twenty staff of the instructor
training institutions will undertake 2-month international fellowships in
instructor training methodology, audio visual production, instructional design



- 93 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
and development, and adaptation of training materials. The principals and
group instructors of the 400 ITIs involved in the project will undertake
training programs to be organized by the Central Training and Research
Institute (CSTARI) in the management of training institutions and
instructional design. There will also be an incremental training requirement
for 3,200 vocational instructors to undergo six weeks training in the
effective use of the instructional aids being produced through the project.
4.          The introduction of 34 new trades in 200 ITIs will require the
appointment of additional vocational instructors. It is estimated: that up to
774 such instructors will need to attend the 12 month instructor training
course, making a total of 9288 months of in-country training.
5.          Following initial successful pilot experience, training in the
management and technical skills required for self employment will be given in
up to 100 ITIs on a pilot basis, and will include post training technical
back-up for trainees. One hundred ITI staff will be trained for two weeks
under the national fellowship program to establish and supervise these
schemes. Twenty regional and State officials will also undertake two-weeks of
in-country training which will be arranged in conjunction with appropriate
small scale industry agencies, such as the District Industries Centers (DICs)
and the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP). The training will
consist of two one-week periods utilizing the services of a national
consultant who will be engaged for a four-month assignment.
6.          Strengthening the Apprenticeship Training Scheme.  The project
will include a major strengthening and extension of the national
apprenticeship training scheme. The Apprenticeship Advisers from each of 16
States together with one official from DGET will undertake one-month
fellowships to study institutional aspects of apprenticeship training abroad.
They will then participate in the conducting of seminars aimed at the
development of plans for the effective implementation of improved
apprenticeship training arrangements. The apprenticeship system is also being
strengthened by the creation of an additional 24 Basic rraining Centers,
involving the appointment of an extra 97 vocational instructors. Each
instructor will require 12 months training, making a total incremental
requirement of 1164 months of in-country training.
7.          The sub-component of the project dealing with the development of
modern sector women's training programs will involve the introduction of new
trades and the establishment of new institutions for women. The incremental
training requirements for the creation of new ITIs for women will include two
weeks of training for 100 Assistant Directors of Training in the various
States and 12 months of training for 528 vocational instructors., making a
total of 6,336 months of in-country training. In addition, the establishment
of new trades in existing ITIs for women will create an incremental training



-9 9-                              ANNEX 9
Page 3
requirement of 12 months training for 224 vocational instructors, making 2,688
mnonths of in-country training.
ExRanding Advanced Training Programs
8.          ExDansion of the Advanced Vocational Training System. One hundred
and fifty six instructors from the 104 training units being established by the
project to offer AVTS training facilities will undergo six months of training
in India, to include elements of skill upgrading and training in instructional
methods and techniques. A further 20 trainers of instructors will receive one
month of in-country training and the principals of each of the 34 ITIs where
AVTS facilities are to be developed will receive one month of training; th-
total is thus 990 months. International fellowships of two months duratio;
will be given to 116 instructors from the new AVTS training units, to the
principals of the 34 ITIs where AVTS facilities are to be developed, to the
six Directors of ATIs which are to be extended to offer new AVTS courses, and
to four senior DGET staff; the total internatlonal fellowship training
commitment is therefore 320 months. Provisi .a is made for 350 months of short
term national specialists' services to assist in the skill upgrading of AVTS
instructors, the development of curricula, the installation and commissioning
of equipment, and the implementation of training programs.
9.          DeveloRment of a Hi2h Technology Training Center   The
establishment of an "Apex" institute for training in high technology areas is
a central element of the Government's programme for responding to the skilled
manpower needs of modern production technology. Sixty-seven persons will
receive international fellowships involving 126 months of overseas training;
this total comprises the Director of the Apex institute (one month training),
14 Joint Directors, of whom nine are from ATIs, one from NVTI and fout from
the Apex institute (one and a half months training for each Joint Director),
and 52 Deputy Directors, of whom 40 are from ATIs, six from NVTI and six from
the Apex institute (two months training for each Deputy Director). Training
will include skill upgrading where necessary, instructional techniques
relevant to the technology of each skill area and, where appropriate, the
design, organization and management of training progr 5is to meet modern
technological requirements. 136 persons involved in high technology training
at the level of Assistant Director or below will receive in-country training
for periods of six months, making a total of 816 months. Extensive provision
is made for 177 months of expert serv;.ces from foreign specialists. This
total includes five short term (three months) specialists in curriculum design
for automation technology, industrial engineering, computer numerical control
machine technology, industrial electronics, and communications technology; it
also includes two short term (three months) specialists in the identification
and specification of high technology equipment and in its installation and
commissioning. Longer term specialists would include a Chief Technical
Adviser for 36 months and eight experts in priority sectors of industrial
technology, each for assignments of 12 months duration. The eight experts
would be experts in automation technology, industrial engineering, CNC
technology, industrial mechanics, CAD/CAM techniques, CNC operating and



- 103 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 4
programming, industrial electronics, and communications electronics. It is
also foreseen that 13 assignments of varying durations amounting to 78 work
months would be undertaken by national technical experts to assist in the
development of curricula for the Apex institute and to carry out staff
training at institutions of the high technology training system.
Im2roving NVTS Planning. Hanagement and Supervision
10.         Strengthening Proiect Management.  Project management units will
be created in the DGET and State Directorates and international fellowships in
management training will be given to 21 persons involved in these units; 18
such people would be from the States and three from DCET. The fellowships
would be of two months duration and would concentrate on strategic issues in
the development of national training systems and policies and in the
organization and management of vocational training schemes.
11.         Establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation System. It is also
proposed to strengthen the existing management information capability of the
national vocational training system, including the development of appropriate
systems within each State. 21 persons from project management units will
receive two months training in India in the development of an integrated
national information system. A foreign specialist will be assigned for two
months to assist in the development of software for the monitoring and
evaluaLion systems and the training materials necessary to ensure the
successful implementation of the software. Two national consultants will be
assigned for two months each to work with the international specialist and to
conduct training programs for CPIU and SPIU staff.
12.         ImDroving Testing. Certification and Documentation. To improve
testing, certification and documentation, a documentation wing will be
established to serve as a national information focal point for vocational
training. The work load of the central test and certification unit has
expanded dramatically, and improved facilities will be provided fo-r test item
bank development, application of validation procedures, examination scoring
and issuance of certification. An international consultant will be assigned
for one month to assist in this activity, together witLI one national
consultant for two months. Two DGET officials will receive international
fellowships of three months duration to enable them to examine how testing and
certification systems operate in other countries and national fellowships of
one month duration on the use of computerized information systems. Forty
State officials will receive one wrek's training in-country on the
implementation of improved arrangements.
13.         Developing Modern Sector Women's Training Programs. The project
aims to provide more effective planning, direction, control and monitoring of
the women's training delivery system and to develop the capacity of the
Women's Vocational T-aining Wing to prepare policies for greater participation
by women in apprenticeship and entrepreneurial training programs. To assist in
the achievement of these aims, ten senior statf of the NVTS system will



- 101 -                                ANNEX 9
Page 5
undertake one-month international fellowship programs to observe the operation
of successful women's training programs overseas.
14.         Reorientin2 the Central Staff Training and Research Institute
(CSTARI). The project foresees the strengthening of CSTARI as the primary
agent of organizational change within the NVTS. This role will be developed
through action programs to solve operational probLems of the NVTS, related
action-oriented research, and management and professional training of senior
Central and State personnel. The Director and the three Chiefs of the
Research, Development and Training Wings of CSTARI will each undertake one
month of fellowship training overseas related to their areas of special
concern. A further 18 months of overseas fellowships will be undertaken by
other staff of CSTARI for training in appropriate aspects of the management,
organization and utilization of training facilities and programs. Incremental
training requirements caused by the project and which will be met through
CSTARI courses will include State Directors of Training, Inspectors, Training
Officers, Liaison Officers, Surveyors, Training Executives from industry, and
persons on Mixed Group State Seminars, making a total of 1,080 staff-months of
in-country training. International expertise of 18 months duration will be
provided, consisting of a three monihs assignment for a research specialist,
another three months assignment for a specialist in systems management and
management training, and a 12 month assignment for a specialist in training
techniques and methodology. This will be supported by three national
corsultants in the same areas for a total of 18 staff months.



- 102 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 1: Technical Assistance Summary
(staff-months)
Total   89/90   90/91  91/92  92/93   )3/94  94/95 95/96
Training
Overseas           619       21    285    213    100        -      -       -
Domestic        36,078      21  6,553  6,644  6,232  5,624  5,502  5,502
Total           36.697      42  6.838  6.857  6.332  5.624  5.502  5.502
Expert Services
International      198       1    67        65    65       -       -      -
National           456        2    90      132   132      75      25      -
Total              654        3   157      197   197      75      25      -



- 103 -
ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 2: Technical Assistance Siummary - Training
(staff-mont'as)
Domestic          Overseas
Training          Training
1. Modernizing Craftsman Training
Equipment Modernization                        600
Equipment Maintenance                        2,922               36
Instructional Aids (Media Resource Centers)  6,000               40
New Trades in ITIs                          11,142
Self-Employment                                 60
Apprenticeship Training (Basic Trg Center)   1,392               17
New Women's ITIs                             7,662
New Trades in Women's ITIs                   3,240
Sub-Total                                 33.018               93
2. Advanced Training Programs
AVTS                                         1,110              320
righ Technology                                816              126
Sub-Total                                  1.926              446
3. NVTS Planning and Management
Project Management                                               42
Monitoring and Evaluation                       42
Testing and Certification                       12                6
Women's Training                                                  10
CSTARI                                       1,080               22
Sub-Total                                  1,134               80
TOTALS                                          36,078              619
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_- - - -



- 104 -
ANNE). 9
Table 3
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 3: Technical Assistance Summary
Experts and Consultants
(staff-months)
Domestic       International
Component                                         Consultants    Consultants
(staff-months) (staff months)
Self-employment                                        4
AVTS                                                 350
High Technology                                       78               177
Planning and Management                                4                 2
Trade Testing and Certification                        2                 1
CSTARI                                                18                18
Totals                                               456               198



- 105 -
ANNEX^ 10
Page 1
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
A.  Selected Documents and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1   Training Manual for Industrial Training Institutes and Centres -
MOL/DGET, 1985
A.2   "Review of Existing Vocational Training Syste.a,"
A.3   "The Apprentices Act, 1961,n September 1983
A.4   'Vocational Training in India,"
A.5   "Industry-Education Collaboration in India: An Exploratory Research
Project," May 1988
A.6   "Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in Industrial Training
Institutes: A Study of Five States,"
A.7   "An Economic Evaluation of the Public Vocational Training Schemes in
India: Report submitted to Mrs. S. Venkataramani, DGET/MOL," September
1985
A.8   "An Economic Evaluation of the Public Vocational Training Schemes in
India: Report No. 2 submitted to DGET/MOL," July 1987
A.9   "Advanced Vocational Training System: Project Findings and
Recommendations," 1983
A.10  "Industrial Training in India: Report of the ILO JNDP Pre-Investment
Mission," January-February 1983
A.ll Annual Report, 1986-87, Volume II - MOL/DGET
B.  Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Proiect
B.1   "Strengthening of Vocational Research and Staff Training Programme of
CSTARI," January 1988
B.2   World Bank Aided Skill Development Project Proposals, Part I:
Introduction - MOL/DGET, January 1988
B.3. World Bank Aided Skill Development Project Proposals, Part II: The
Project - MOL/DGET, January 1988



106 -
ANNlEX 10
Page 2
B.4   World Bank Aided Skill Development Project Proposals, Part III: The
Schemes - MOL/DGET, January 1988
B35   "Introduction of Training Courses in High-Tech Areas," Franz Frederichs,
February 1987
B.6   Skill Development Project: Proposals for Pre-Appraisal Mission -
MOL/DGET, May 1988
B.6   Skill Development Project: Schemes for Pre-Appraisal Mission - MOL/DGET,
May 1988
C. Working PaDers
CA1   Project Management
C.2   Staff Development and Training Plans
C.3   Terms o' Reference for Consultant Services
C.4   Project Activities and Development Budget



INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
System of TechnicalNocatlonal Education
UNIVERSITY       '
EDUCATION
RECs/NTs
AGE 17 - 21                                         SENOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
4 YEARS                                                    ATls / CTls I FTls
DEGREE                                                        DIPLOMA
HIGHER SECONDARY                  CRAFTSMEN                    APPRENTICESHIP
EDUCATION                       TRAINING                       TRAINING                    POLYTECHNICS
AGE 15 - 17                       ITis                        2 - 4 YEARS                     3 YEARS
2 YEARS                       1-2YEARS                          ATC                          DIPLOMA
CERTIFICATE                    NETIFCAT                       CERTIFICATE._
~~~~~~~~CERTIFICATE        LT
SECONDARY EDUCATION (MATRICULATION)
AGE 13 - 15, 2 YEARS|
CERTIFICATE
.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
PRIMARY AND MIDDLE SCHOOL EDUCATION
AGE 5 - 13, 8 YEARS
CERTIFICATE
REC - Regional Engineering Collega, IIT - :ndian Inssbtute of Technology, FTI - Foreign Training Institute
ATI - Advanced Training Insttute, CTI - Central Training Institute
NTC - National Trade Ceritlcate, ATC - Apprentice Training Certficate
W43134



INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Labor
MINISTRY OF LABOR
GOVT. OF INDIA
NCVT
DGE &T
CAC
co
ITI                     ATI                      FIR
CT-I                                           csTA
LEGEND:
C)
DGE & T - Directorate General of Employment & Training
STATES                          NCVT    - National Council for Vocational Training
GOVTS.                          CAC       - Central Apprenticeship Council
ITI      - Industrial Training instlutes
ATI      - Advanced Training Institutes
CTI      - Central Training Institute
FTI      - Foreman Training Institute
CSTARI  - Central Staff Training and Receareh Instftute
CIMI     - Central Instructn Media !nstitut
cdf43e34b



VOCAUOWL WAOAG P*O*CI
~~~r~~~~ao - 
-~~                                                  -    b
'a0                                                                                                                  C                                        I-.
- ~ ~ ~ .--  i-'--                                           ~-  
*aM*
*-. .ma....
 | - S  &  z s I
--_&*GI  _~WNM -Ab i __ 
,. _ .    ,         ,"_5-_                                                       c    _    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-



INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Organizational Structure of
Equipment Maintenance System
Ministry of Libor
IState Training     -      D.G.E. & T. 1
Directorate
Regional                    Functions
Maintenance                   i) Training of Maintenance Personnel of EMW, MMC. liT & anduky.
Service Centers  j             il) Preparafion of maintenance schedule and sevice Manuel br Ills
iii) To assist States in establishing preventive Mantno system in el 1Is
- . -      |iv) Repairs, reconditioning of m/c - tools & electrical equipment of the ATs
_ _ _ _  _          II
Z         ,                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Functions:
ECP. Maintenance                                   F                                                                              I
Workshop(s)                                     ij To monitor effective functioning of M.M.C.s                                  0
(E.M.W.)                                      ii) To undertake major repairs of n/c tools, elical equipWmnt d f  ITls in Oe Stats.
-  z                    ii.) To undenake repairs in ITl having problem to transpotaton or eqLuipmt.
Machine                    Functions:
Maintenance Col
(M.M.C)                   i) To repair and maintain machine tools & electrical equipmnw d  he o tiute
NO. OF CENTERS.                             ULine of dAi
Regional Maintenance Center        -    6 Nos.                         Line of Control
Equipment Maintk nance Workshop    .   19 Nos.
Machine Maintenance Cell:               100 Nos.
Total Centers:                     125 Nos.
cd4314c



INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Linkage between CIMI, CSTARI and ITIs
CIMI                      CSTARI
Training of Staff,
Provision of Materials
MRC
Media Resource Center
Training ot              Preparation/
l         ~~Instructors              Provision ot 
L        I~~Tls/Enterprises           Sottware
-------------; -----_
Provision of                 Utilization of
AV hardware                hardwuer o
:        ~~in ITls      *               in Il
CIMI - Central Institute for Instructional Materials
CSTARI - Central Staff Training and Research Institute
ITIs - Industrial Training Institutes
MRC   - Materials Resource Center
Cikw43134d



INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Organizational Chart of
Central Staff Training and Resarch Institute
FUNCTIONS OF CSTARI
RESEARCH                                      DEVELOPMENT                                   TRAINMA  
WIN13G                                           WlING                            LWlNim
_            1                     t    ~~~~~~~~~~Develomonl ot                                d
Currkulum                                write instrucioais                           Mmomo  of
Development of
Training                               ProSected Aids: Soet s,               _e S_ste
_MUchods_    Flims, Trarpenww es                                                  _          SCd"
& Filim Strips 
Deveowpfnl do_f
Qualitative     J                        Non-projected Aids:                            Trainin on
-   Skili Survey                        _       Charts, Postemrsul  ysw
Production of 
Vocational                                  Pro1eNeed &                                   d-Basd
Regulation                                 Non_Training
Trainingtid
Advisory Service    1                        Dissemination of                             011Caus
to Industries    J                        Trairing Materials                             Co_ se
caW4313ft



INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Organizational Structure of Proect Managemennt OfflIc
I   PROJECT DIRECTOR
h     STENO
JD                                    JD                                   us
(PROCUREMENT & CIVIL                      (TRAINING &                          (PWLANING A
WORKS)                             COORDINATION)                       AIN16TRAWN)
STENO                                                                      STNO  NO
DY. DT            DY. OT              DY. DI             DY. DT
(PROCUREMENT)  (CW)           (STAFF TRG.)     (MONITORING &          AO                 8
|(PROCUREMENT) |C                                          EVALUATION)
ADT               ADT                 ADT                ADT           AC|  |  W WTANT      ASSTT.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
TO. E           TOO                                   TO       l         I DC              UDC
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
|  UDC                                                               LD                 L DC l    
PEON             DAFTRY           GESTENER            TYPIST
JD  - Joint Director            US - Under Secretary
DDT - Deputy Director of Training  AO - Account Officer
ADT - Ast. Director of Training  SO  - Section Offier
TO  - Training Officer          UDC - Upper Division Cler
LDC - Lower Division Ckek
aJ313



INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Implementation Responsibilities at National and State Levels
IMINISTRY Of LABOR    l                  WORLD BANK l
GO0VT. OF INDIA JLI
,                           1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
STATE GOVT.
UT AO MN. 
|TEUHNK:COMMITT    |G&
STATE LEI/E                     STATE
COMfTEE                       DIRECTOR_,, 
CPIU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
CPIU - Centr1l Pro4c Inpemenimton Unit
SPIU - State Proxeat hnp_emettion Unit



.-a 3
F                                                             3
a                --             --     -                              -

-e                            -
n  .                                      -
-                 Z  3
a          3
Ti  m
NE                   -a
II
NE         I                    ..I   I                U    -
.mE...                        _______________ ______ II
U         U                         U
U       U
-a                     a
-                            U        U  -   a  -           a-                *     -
-      -maE                  U       U  U   -             --                       U
...  3       - :   **  *    **   *   -              -                      *
-.m.         .a                     -   -                                      a
________    *            UU  U  EU                               __                    -
-   I.         -.         U  UU  U  U         -----------        -  --            --
- -             2
*        3            3I                             a                   - -   *  -
DEE        NE   El          EU    -                       *-
-     -     -                  a           -                         I   :
- -        .!  :   ii  HE  II  U                                          a         -
___________             _________      ____          _________   _____                
-.       EU  IUl   U    -.                                         3.-,  3 - -.  -
-   --a    EU
I**   U              III-   U                        S                              n--
I!  I      HE   II          UN                            ..       
3                   U: ______   __ _____
m    -       -       --  m  --   3               ________      -                    2
*          *              U.:-                                    *
*        I           INN          I                                      -
NED   HE II    II                                                         I
.m  3       m3    --         E   -                             a
-          We    El  m    wE          ___        _______       3
m              .             --   W
*          :3:::    35  **3  *  *
*        3:::  33,                                   a
NED   NE IN    NI
________  _    tj
-           U      Eu        *rn WE  --
II         N  U
I        U           II           U                  -                 It
lEE        UE   I           N                   a                        i-H
- 3
______ __________ ______________    I                     _______
____ _______ _________ _________    U.                    ____      -  -
:-i :3:3
3                                                    a       I-
a      I
'I-
-                                                                 -'
*   I4 *iI



