Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19367
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2008-IN/LOAN 3045-IN)
May 31, 1999
Education Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Fiscal Year           Exchange Rate         Comment
(April 1- March 31)       (Indian rupee-
Rs./US$)
1989-90                 16.66            Official Rate
1990-91                 17.95                diito
1991-92                 24.52                ditto
1992-93                 26.41                ditto
1993-94                 31.36            Unified Rate
1994-95                 31.40                ditto
1995-96                 33.46                ditto
1996-97                 34.45                ditto
1997-98                 37.13                ditto
1998-99                 42.03                ditto
Note: A dual exchange rate system was created in March 1992, with a free market rate for about 60% of foreign exchange
transactions at a rate of US$1.00 = Rs. 30.65. The exchange rate was reunified at the beginning of March 1993 at the free
market rate.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATI                  -            Advanced Training Institute
AVTS                 -            Advanced Vocational Training System
BTC                  -            Basic Training Center
CII                  -            Confederation of Indian Industries
CPIU                 -            Central Project Implementation Unit
CSTARI               -            Central Staff Training and Research Institute
DEA                  -            Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance
DGET                 -            Directorate General of Employment and Training
DGS&D                -            Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal
EFC                  -            Expenditure Finance Committee
GOI                  -            Government of India
IBRD                 -            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                  -            International Development Association
IF                   -            Internal Finance division, MOL
ITI                  -            Industrial Training Institute
MOL                  -            Ministry of Labour
MRC                  -            Media Resource Center
NCVT                 -            National Council of Vocational Training
NTPC                 -            National Thermal Power Corporation
NVTI                 -            National Vocational Training Institute for Women
NVTS                 -            National Vocational Training System
RIC                  -            Related Instruction Center
RVTI                 -            Regional Vocational Training Institute (for Women)
SDR                  -            Special Drawing Rights
SPIU                 -            State Project Implementation Unit
UT                   -            Union Territory
VT                   -            Vocational Training
WITI                 -            Industrial Training Institute for Women
Vice President            :       Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director          :       Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager            :       Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader               :       Edward H. Heneveld
Task Leader               :       Shashi Kant Shrivastava



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Cr. 2008-IN/Ln. 3045-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................................                  i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................    1
A. Project Objectives ...........................................................       1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..........................................         2
C. Implementation Record ...................................................... ..      6
D. Project Sustainability ......................................................... .   9
E. Bank Performance ...........................................................         9
F. Borrower Performance .........................................................       10
G. Assessment of Outcome ........................................................       10
H. Future Operation ...........................................................         11
I. Key Lessons Leamed ...........................................................      II
PART 2: STATISTICAL TABLES ...................................................                  13
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1    Summary of Assessents .13
Table 2           Related Bank Loans/Credits .14
Table 3    Project Timetable .14
Table 4           Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                           15
Table 5           Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6           Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7           Major Studies Included in Project .20
Table 8A  Project Costs .22
Table 8B  Project Financing .22
Table 9           Economic Costs and Benefits .22
Table 10   Status of Legal Covenants .23
Table 11          Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .25
Table 12    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .25
Table 13    Bank Resources: Missions .26
ANNEXES
Annex A           Mission's Aide Memoire
Annex B           Borrower's Contribution
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
in the performance of their of ficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Cr. 2008 IN/Ln. 3045 IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report for the Vocational Training Project in
India for which IDA Credit 2008-IN in the amount of SDR 189.2 million (US$250.0 million
equivalent) and IBRD Loan 3045-IN in the amount of US$30.0 million was approved on
April 27, 1989 and made effective on August 8, 1989. Although approved originally as an
IDA/IBRD blended project, the IBRD loan component was cancelled on December 5, 1991
at the Borrower's request. Four cancellations in December 1991, May 1993, March 1997
and November 1997 reduced the total IDA credit to SDR 101.3 million. Devaluation of the
national currency by over 250 percent during the project period led to most of this
cancellation.
The Credit/Loan closed on December 31, 1998 instead of the original closing date of
December 31, 1996. The project was allowed a one-year extension to reach a satisfactory
level of success, making up for the time lost in start-up difficulties and due to suspension of
disbursements for six months following the mid-term review. In December 1997, IDA
agreed for another extension of one year, but only for three critical components of the
project. The last disbursement took place on May 24, 1999 after which time a balance of
SDR 12.98 million was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. S. K. Shrivastava (Task Team Leader), Y. Saran
(Consultant) and G. S. Chandran (Consultant) of Education Sector (SASED) of South Asia
Region. The report was reviewed by Messrs. Heneveld (India Education Team Leader),
Harbison (Sector Manager, SASED), Hinchliffe (SASED), Marke (LOAAS), Krishnan
(PDAT/SACIF), Bhandari (Operations Advisor, SACIF) and Ms. Imamura (LEGSA). It was
peer reviewed by Mr. Middleton (EACTF) and Mr. Cambridge (SAROQ). The draft was
also seen by Mr. Colletta (SDVPC), who led the project preparation team in 1988-89, and
Mr. Skolnik (Sector Manager, SASPH), who guided the project from 1989 to 1997 as
Division Chief. The Borrower provided comments and conducted a separate evaluation of
the project that is included, in an unedited form, in Annex B.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision-cum-ICR mission,
January 28 - February 11, 1999. It is based on the materials in the project files, missions
observations from the field trips, discussions with teachers, students and employers, and
discussions with various institutions including the Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU),
State Project Implementation Units (SPIUs), and officials of the Government of India and State
Governments.



NIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Cr. 2008-IN/Ln. 3045-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Introduction: The project was the first IDAJIBRD assisted project in the Technical
Education and Vocational Training sector in India. It was appraised in November 1988 and
approved by the Board in April 1989. It became effective on August 8, 1989 and closed on
December 31, 1998 after two extensions of the closing date.
2.   Project Objectives: It supported the Ministry of Labour's (MOL) long-term program to
modernize and restructure the National Vocational Training System (NVTS), and ultimately,
improve the productivity of skilled and semi-skilled workers in the industrial and service sectors.
The primary objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the quality and efficiency of craftsman
and apprenticeship training; (b) expand and diversify the advanced training programs; and (c)
strengthen the NVTS planning and management capacity. The participation of women was to be
increased in all these programs.
3.    The project was timely and its objectives were clear, relevant to MOL's long-term
program to modernise and restructure NVTS, and rightly aimed at revamping the system.
Objective-wise, the financial allocations at appraisal were - Modernising the Craftsman and
Apprenticeship Training, 75.5%; Advanced Training Programs, 17.2%; and NVTS Planning and
Management, 7.3% of the total project cost (including contingencies) of US$429.8 million (Rs.
6877.9 million).
4.    This project had its origins in the World Bank's efforts in the late 1980s to enter into the
Education sector in India. This first project, though rather ambitious and highly centralised with
many associated problems, led to a series of Bank-assisted projects in technician education and
primary education with very large investments.
5.   Implementation Experience and Results: The project review reports indicate slow
progress during the first four years of project implementation but significant improvement during
later stages in all components implemented by the States. Finally, all States reached their
physical targets, with minor shortcomings in Bihar, Haryana, Assam and West Bengal. The State
components accounted for about 85% of the project investments.
6.    The project complexity and over-centralisation resulted in co-ordination problems and
delays. The large number of project components - about 20 - covering most central institutions
and 565 Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) in 28 States and Union Territories made the
implementation difficult. Creation of minimum infrastructure in the project implementation units
at the Central (CPIU) and State levels (SPIUs) took about two years. Problems in timely release
of State share of funds and the central control exercised by the MOL, requiring States to seek
frequent approvals, made the project implementation difficult. The MOL's Directorate General of



ii
Employment and Training (DGET) -- responsible for oversight and the CPIU responsible for
project implementation at national level - themselves faced a number of operational constraints
(with no powers for financial approvals, creation of posts, or staff appointments) limiting their
capacity to make timely implementation decisions resulted in delays, especially in the central
components. These difficulties persisted and led to restructuring of the project and re-setting of
targets in December 1996.
7.    The Credit had to be extended twice by a total of two years. After the first extension to
December 31, 1997, IDA agreed to extend the closing date by another year for three critical
components - Modernisation of Training Equipment, Hi-Tech Training, and Establishment of
Management Information System (MIS). For the remaining sixteen components, the project
closed on December 31, 1997.
8.   In spite of the many problems listed above, the project has made critical contribution to
the future growth of NVTS in the following two areas: (a) a draft paper proposing new policy
initiatives for vocational training has been prepared and reviewed by an Expert National
Committee comprising representatives of all stakeholders. The proposals are awaiting final
review by NCVT and would then be sent to the Union Cabinet. The new policy includes
decentralization, involvement of industry in the management and financing of vocational training
(VT), and flexibility in program design and delivery. This goes much beyond the anticipated
scope of the Industry-Institute Cooperation proposed in the project and is likely to establish a
lasting partnership with industry in the management and financing of VT; and (b) output from the
new Women's Industrial Training Institutes (WITI) exceeded the target by 52% - reported output
is about 24,300 during the project period against the target of 16,000. The training capacity for
WITIs increased by 119% (from 20,000 to 43,800) and some States have started reservations for
women in general ITIs also. The project has thus been successful in increasing the percentage of
women enrollment in vocational training and this trend deserves all support of MOL and the State
Governments.
9.    With the exception of the following, all covenants have been complied with fully or in a
manner acceptable to the Bank (Table 10): (a) there were substantial delays in staff appointment
and utilisation of technical assistance; this led to suspension of disbursements during July 1994-
January 1995; (b) there were four occasions when audit report submissions from some States
were delayed resulting in temporary suspension of the SOE (statements of expenditure)
procedure for disbursements for the whole project (Table 11); and (c) completion of four studies
agreed during project negotiations were delayed by a few months.
10.   The total project cost at appraisal was estimated as US$429.8 million (Rs. 6877.9 million,
with base cost of Rs. 4907 million) of which the Bank was to finance SDR 189.2 million as IDA
Credit and US$30 million as IBRD Loan; GOI was to finance the remainder of the project cost.
The significant Rupee devaluation (by over 250% during the project) increased the proceeds from
the Credit/Loan, which were partially offset by: (a) increased percentage of disbursements
against all categories of expenditure, requested by the Borrower; (b) the cancellation of SDR 29.5
million and the entire IBRD loan of US$30 million in December 1991. In May 1993, another
cancellation of SDR 35.7 million was made. After project restructuring, further cancellations of
SDR 13 million in FY97 and SDR 9.7 million in FY98 were made at the request of the Borrower.
The total Credit/Loan was thus adjusted from SDR 189.2 million plus US$30 million to only
SDR 101.3 million in the IDA Credit. The final project cost was about US$163.5 million (about



iii
Rs. 5330 million equivalent). Final disbursement took place on May 24, 1999 after which time a
balance of US$17.468 million (SDR 12.98 million) was cancelled.
11.   The Credit agreements were amended at the request of the Borrower four times during the
project. These included: (i) revision in ceilings for civil works and prudent shopping (April
1991); (ii) revision in percentage of expenditure to be financed by IDA (Dec. 1991) (iii)
restructuring - revision of project description (Schedule 2) (April 1997); (iv) minor amendment to
Schedule 2 (paragraph 3b) on Hi-Tech Training (December 1997).
12.  In physical terms, the project reached most of its targets in the State components (Details
in Table 5). In the Central institutions, targets remain partially achieved. It resulted in
establishment of 100 new ITIs for women; introduction of 487 new trades at 268 ITIs; partial
modernization of 378 ITIs; creation of maintenance system in 19 States - each with a State level
workshop and maintenance cells in selected ITIs; creation of 18 Basic Training Centers and 44
Related Instructional Centers which have trained over 95,000 industrial workers; and introduction
of Advanced Training Programs and some Hi-Tech Training programs at selected ITIs and
central institutions. Some 33,000 trainees (against the project target of 17,000) have undergone
advanced vocational training. The curricula for most trades are revised and instructional material
developed and distributed for a few popular trades. Most of some 480 constructions are
completed; however, all five major constructions planned for central institutions were dropped
during project restructuring due to delays. Against a target of 4200 new instructors, 3784 are
appointed. In instructor training, the target is exceeded; some 10,000 instructors (against the
original target of 5500) have undergone training varying from two weeks to a year.
13.   Major outcomes of the project, as expressed by sample beneficiary groups of students,
teachers and principals, and representatives from industry during three workshops conducted by
the ICR mission are: modernization of workshops; systematic faculty development; and
interaction between industry and ITIs.  The beneficiaries desired that these should all be
continued during the operational phase.
14.   The services of professionals within and outside the NVTS were well utilised in
monitoring, evaluation, and development of strategies. Some examples include: (a) a tracer study
was completed by the Indian Statistical Institute in 1997 in the States of West Bengal, Tamil
Nadu, Delhi, and Gujarat. This study confirmed gains in the external efficiency in comparison to
non-project institutions; (b) an impact study, completed by the CPIU and SPIUs covering 7 States
(Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Goa, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, West Bengal, and Orissa), confirmed
substantial internal efficiency gains in project institutions; and (c) in 1998, the DGET in close
collaboration with the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) assessed the curricula, facilities
and the training process in 7 Northern and 4 Western States. This evaluation confirmed adequate
use of modem equipment, closure of obsolete trades not needed by the labour market, and major
gains in the percentage of equipment being operational.
15.   The above-mentioned sample-studies showed: improvement in overall operational
efficiency of project ITIs by 10%; improvement in pass- rate ranging between 6-20%; a decrease
in drop-out rate by 3-20%; an increase in equipment being operational from a pre-project status
of 50% to 92% at project closing; and employment rate of project ITI trainees improved from
pre-project rate of 50% to about 65% at project closing. The employment rate of trainees from
project ITIs was significantly better than those from other ITIs.



iv
16.   Key factors which helped in project implementation were: (a) strong commitment and
desire of concerned officials of GOI and many States to make a difference in the system; (b)
appropriate leadership in many project institutions; (c) close interaction amongst States during
joint reviews of all States by GOI and the Bank initiated from 1995; (d) significant involvement
of industry in reviews and policy reform planning. Some key factors that affected project
implementation adversely included: (a) lack of empowerment of DGET/CPIU/SPIUs and project
institutions and over-centralisation; (b) non-familiarity with the Bank procedures and frequent
changes in senior officials both in GOI and in the States; (c) delays in creation and filling of key
posts; and (d) poor performance of construction agencies (State and Central Public works
Departments) and central procurement agency/consultants (DGS&D and NTPC).
17.   The MOL, DGET and State officials appreciate the Banks' performance in project
preparation, and in supervision during the last 4 years. They feel that the Bank played a
constructive role in identifying and addressing the implementation issues. The Bank, however,
underestimated the issue of the project's complexity. Apparently, the appraisal process failed to
identify the institutional and systemic weaknesses that delayed implementation for four years. It
also did not attempt to suggest any alternative to the very complex internal project management
and financing structure.  The implementation problems that surfaced immediately after
effectiveness were not foreseen. It is apparent that the project was prepared and appraised under
extra-ordinary circumstances when India was facing a major financial crisis and the Bank wanted
to respond quickly with a possibility of entry into the field of education and training in India. To
a large extent, the Bank's decision to transfer the responsibility for project supervision to the
New Delhi Office and to place a vocational/technical educator there mid-way through the project
enhanced its capacity to respond to emerging problems and expeditious clearance of diverse
procurement issues.
18.   The DGET and the States are critical of the Bank on two counts: (a) the Bank's initial
refusal to agree to extend the project when implementation had picked up momentum and then
finally agreeing to give a one-year extension only two weeks before the closing date. This
belated decision was made when States were winding up the SPIUs or the experienced senior
staff were looking for other assignments. This slow down resulted in another one-year extension
for some components; and (b) the Bank's interaction with the States and SPIUs was missing in
the earlier stages (perhaps due to travel restrictions imposed by the Borrower) and could have
accelerated progress as it did in the final 3-4 years. Overall, the project States and DGET
considered the Bank's role to be highly professional, helpful and constructive
19.   The Borrower's performance was deficient during the first four years and satisfactory in
the later years. The Borrower's project preparation was effective with clearly defined objectives
and programs. There were, however, noticeable mismatches between the Detailed Project Report
(DPR) of MOL prepared in 1989 and the SAR/Credit Agreements. The Internal Finance treated
the DPR attached to the EFC document with a defined total cost in Indian Rupees as a strict guide
and did not allow flexibility. These led to different perceptions/interpretations between the Bank
and the GOI during implementation that should have been resolved at the early stages of the
project.
20.   The project implementation staff in States and at the CPIU was professionally qualified,
but lacked prior experience in project management and implementation of Bank projects with
such a comprehensive and complex package of reforms. Project implementation suffered from
frequent changes of the Director General of DGET and the senior State officials, from abnormal



v
delays in creation of key additional staff positions, their selection and appointment, and from
delays in Central approvals to schemes already agreed in the project. The changes in the Central
Government and Governments in 28 State/ Union Territories added to delays in approvals and
timely release of funds. However, despite all these factors the concerned officials at the Center
and States ensured success of the project in large measure with their extra-ordinary efforts during
the last three years of the project.
21.   Assessment of Outcome: Assessment of the overall outcomes of the project is complex.
If delays and cancellations are ignored, the project outcome for the State components covering
85% of project costs is satisfactory. In summary, the achievement of overall objectives is as
follows: (a) the sectoral policy objectives were generally achieved. The reduction in staff
vacancies, training of instructors, start of demand-driven courses in the States is close to targets.
With the development of a revised policy framework, some important steps regarding governance
and financing of VT are underway; (b) the Institutional Development objectives were partially
achieved. Schemes such as Media Resource Centres, Trade Testing and Certification Cells,
equipment maintenance system, and the MIS could take off only after long delays. Although
most of these initiatives are in place, their continued effectiveness will only be known during the
operational phase; (c) the Physical objectives were generally achieved in the States' schemes but
only partially in the central schemes. Civil works, equipment procurement, training and
recruitment of staff-all were successfully completed by the States whereas the schemes in the
central sector were cancelled during restructuring due to land acquisition issues and significant
staff vacancies; (d) Poverty reduction objective has been adequately achieved. Vocational
Training is mostly availed of by the weaker sections of the society to improve their employment
prospects and earning capacity. Introduction of new trades and the increase in output in numbers
as well as enhancements in quality have contributed to poverty reduction; and (e) the gender
concerns have been adequately addressed. Output from the NVTS in terms of number of women
trained has exceeded the SAR targets by 52%.
22.   Sustainability and Future Operations: The sustainability of most components of the
project is likely. The MOL, as well as the States, strongly supports the view that a highly skilled
technical workforce is necessary to maintain the country's competitiveness in the emerging global
economy. All new ITIs and new trades will be supported fully by the States. Government of
India is continuing the schemes of modernization, staff training, MIS, AVTS, and Hi-Tech
training. It will take sometime before the new RVTIs and the Apex Hi-Tech Training Center are
established as planned. Only the pilot scheme of training for self-employment may not continue
in most places due to poor response. An operational plan with monitoring and impact indicators,
acceptable to Bank, has been carefully prepared and summarized in Table 6. During the
operational phase, adequate funds should be available to complete unfinished works and to
continue quality improvement activities.
23.   Recent efforts made by the MOL in improving governance and funding of training
institutions to accelerate the quality improvement activities with the active participation from the
industry have been successful in many States. Many new models have emerged resulting in a
new draft policy for NVTS. Future support, if any, from the Bank, should focus on support to
this new policy, which is now in the final stages of approval.
24.    Key Lessons: Following is a summary of key lessons learned during this first Project in
this sector in India:



vi
(a) The project appraisal should have taken a closer look at the institutional capacity
relative to project complexity and identified institutional and systemic weaknesses that
delayed project implementation;
(b) The EFC memo for such a comprehensive national project with interdependlent
components should discourage selectivity in component approval by the MOL's
Internal Finance during implementation. It should provide some flexibility during
implementation and should also take into account normal price escalations and
currency fluctuations, and should preferably be designated in SDRs. After approval of
the EFC memo, further approvals of the project components should not be sought
during the implementation stage;
(c) The project could have achieved greater success with more decentralization and
flexibility to States and ITIs in the selection of trades according to local needs, in the
procurement of equipment, and in curriculum development;
(d) In a national project with a high degree of complexity, participatory approaches during
project preparation and implementation that involved States, ITIs and other
professional institutions could have improved project ownership and outcomes;
(e) Frequent changes in the senior implementation staff should be avoided. Technical
assistance, especially training, should be provided to project implementation staff in
Bank procurement whenever a first project is approved in a sector;
(f) To avoid delays in project implementation, land acquisition and architectural design of
buildings should start before negotiations. Any works not coming to the bidding stage
within six months of the agreed schedule should be cancelled along with the other
relevant components; and
(g) A field-based supervision with close interaction with the client and project
beneficiaries proved to be very effective and economical.



INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Cr. 2008-/Ln. 3045-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    Background: The project was the first IDA/IBRD-assisted project in the Technical
Education and Vocational Training sector in India. It supported the Ministry of Labour's (MOL)
long-term program to modernize and restructure the National Vocational Training System
(NVTS). During the late- 1980 when this project was prepared, substantial policy reforms were
introduced by the Government of India (GOI) which resulted in higher growth rates (9% between
1985-88) in the manufacturing sector. Continued support of this policy required more relevant
training for industrial workers so as not to constrain economic growth.  To ensure that
manufacturing and service sectors fulfill their expected role of generating higher incomes and
reducing poverty, overall efficiency of the training system and the quality of education and
training that workers bring to the job, both in organized and unorganized sectors, had to be
improved. Main weaknesses were identified by DGET as: (a) the need to modernize/upgrade
equipment, outdated curricula, shortage and limited skills of instructor and instructional resources
to satisfy changing needs of the growing industrial sector; (b) weaknesses in NVTS to cope with
trade testing to ensure standardization and quality control, inappropriate planning, management
and monitoring which effects efficiency; (c) poor participation of women in the industrial labor
force; (d) inadequate opportunities for organized employment of the workers from poor socio-
economic background; and (e) lack of training which supports self employment of graduates.
2.    To address these issues the MOL sought World Bank financing through the Department
of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Government of India. A project proposal prepared by DGET with
assistance from ILO and UNDP in 1983 was substantially modified and submitted to the Bank.
The project was appraised in November 1988, approved by the Board in April 1989, and became
effective on August 8, 1989. It closed on December 31, 1998 after two extensions of the closing
date.
3.    Project Objectives: The primary objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the
quality and efficiency of basic craftsmen and apprenticeship training; (b) expand and diversify
the advanced training programs; and (c) strengthen the NVTS planning and managerial capacity.
The participation of women was to be increased in all these programs.
4.    The quality improvement objective of craftsman and apprenticeship training was to be
achieved through: (a) modernising workshops in Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) established
before 1969; (b) extending trade coverage in the ITIs, National Apprenticeship Training Scheme,
Basic Training Centres (BTCs) and Related Training Centres (RTCs); (c) provision of audio-
visual aids and strengthening instructor training programs; (d) establishing an equipment
maintenance system; (e) introduction of post-ITI courses on a pilot basis; and (f) increasing
women's access to training in modern sector trades by constructing new ITIs for women and



2
adding women's wings in existing ITIs; establishing new Regional Vocational Training Institutes
(RVTIs) for women; and introduction of new trades in existing ITIs for women; and (g)
strengthening the curriculum and methods development wing of NVTI.
5.    The Expansion of Advanced Training Programs was to be achieved by: (a) introducing
new trades at advanced skill levels in existing Regional Vocational Training Institutes (RVTIs),
and National Vocational Training Institute (NVTI); (b) upgrading facilities at selected ITIs and
existing Advanced Training Institutes (ATIs) for Advanced Vocational Training (AVTS); and (c)
and establishing a new Hi-Tech Training Centre for electronics, computers and robotics.
6.    The objective of Improving NVTS Management and Planning at DGET  and
corresponding State Directorates of Training was to be achieved through: (a) Improving NVTS
Planning and Management capability; (b) strengthening of NVTS monitoring and evaluat;ion
system; (c) improving the trade testing, certification and documentation processes; (d)
strengthening DGET's Women VT unit; and (e) reorienting CSTARI to improve supervisory
training and research in vocational training.
7.    The project was timely and its objectives were clear, relevant to MOL's long term
program to modemise and restructure NVTS and rightly aimed at revamping the system.
Objective-wise the financial allocations at appraisal were - Modernizing the Craftsman and
Apprenticeship Training, 75.5%; Advanced Training Programs, 17.2%; and NVTS Planning and
Management, 7.3% of the total project cost (including contingencies) of US$429.8 million (Rs.
6877.9 million).
8.    This project had its origins in the World Bank's efforts to enter into education in India.
This first project, though rather ambitious and highly centralised with many associated problems,
led to a series of Bank-assisted projects in technician education and primary education with very
large investments.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    The project review reports indicate slow progress during the first four years of project
implementation but significant improvement during later stages in all components implemented
by the States. Finally, all States reached their physical targets, with minor shortcomings in Bihar,
Haryana, Assam and West Bengal. All schemes except Modernisation of Equipment, Hi-Tech
Training, MIS and Technical Assistance closed on December 31, 1997. However, progress in
closed components (with Borrower inputs only) was regularly reported in reviews during the
extended period for remaining components. Component-wise status is summarised below:
OBJECTIVE 1: Quality Improvement of Craftsman and Apprenticeship Programs
10.   The status of achievement of Quality improvement Objective has been satisfactory.
Sample tracer studies co-ordinated by CSTARI and impact studies conducted in seven States
(Goa, Kamataka, Maharashtra, Orissa, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal) provide
evidence of quality improvement. However, due to delays in equipment procurement and
installation, and teacher recruitment and training, the full impact on quality of training is yet to be
assessed. The progress is as follows:



3
(a) Modernization of Equipment in existing ITIs: Against the revised allocation of Rs.
2873 million (appraisal estimate - Rs. 1590 million) for equipment, about Rs. 2500
million were utilized to replace obsolete equipment in 378 ITIs. While the States of
Maharashtra, Rajasthan, MP and Orissa exceeded the targets, some States (AP,
Bihar, UP) could not take advantage of additional allocations.
(b) Introduction of New Trades: The targets for expanding the training capacity have
been met with the introduction of 370 (of 376) new trades in 204 ITIs and to date
some 28,000 students have completed their training in the new trades. The only
shortages are in Assam and West Bengal, which plan to start new programs by end-
1999.
(c) AV Aids and Media Resource Centers (MRCs): 387 ITIs have been provided with
AV equipment. After considerable delays, 10 MRCs were established - 7 at ATIs,
one each at a CTI, an NVTI, and an RVTI. About 80% equipment has been procured
and is in use. These MRCs were to train 3200 ITI instructors in upgrading
instructional capabilities of trainers in the use and development of instructional
software through courses of 6. weeks duration. Because of the delays, the States
utilized services of MRCs at ATIs and State institutions and trained some 6200 staff
through courses of only 2 weeks duration with the Bank approval. Most States
exceeded the revised targets. The major shortfalls were in Kerala (22%) and Assam
(21.5%), due to restrictions on travel outside the State. Field visits and discussions
with the instructors and the students confirmed use of AV equipment on a limited
scale for enhancing the quality of instruction.
(d) Equipment Maintenance System: To develop equipment maintenance capability in
the NVTS, 6 Regional Service Centers, 19 Equipment maintenance Workshops in
different States and 93 maintenance Cells (of 100 planned) have been established.
Four Cells in West Bengal will be operational soon. Uttar Pradesh and J & K did not
establish 3 Cells. All maintenance staff are trained. A study of 35 ITIs in 7 States
commissioned by the DGET concluded that percentage of machines in working
condition has increased from a pre-project status of 50% to 92% at project closing.
(e) Post-ITI Courses for self-employment: Facing operational difficulties and lack of
response from ITI trainees, the scope of this pilot scheme was scaled back after a
study, in 1995, to 41 centers from the appraisal target of 100. Finally, 36 ITIs in 11
States have started these programs and trained some 1200 students during the life of
the project. Other than recording reasons for lack of response from ITI graduates, no
serious efforts were made to improve program design and delivery or to provide
qualified instructors or appropriate infrastructure. It is highly likely that these
courses will fade away and the pilot scheme will be considered unsuccessful.
(f) Basic Training (BTC) and Related Instruction Centers (RI): To improve and expand
Apprenticeship Training Programs, two components had varying degree of success
with considerable delays: (i) as per the revised target 18 BTCs (in 17 States and one
at the Regional Directorate for Apprenticeship Training, Kanpur) have been
established, which have provided basic training to some 2800 apprentices in trades
not adequately covered by ITIs; (ii) all the planned 44 RICs (38 in 18 States and 6 in
Regional Directorates of Apprenticeship Training ) have been established and trained



4
some 95,400 apprentices. States have reported 5-23% increase in pass rates in
apprenticeship programs.
(g) Women's Training: To improve access to women for training in modem trades, four
schemes have been implemented. Targets for the two State schemes (i and ii below)
have been achieved and even exceeded in some States but the Central schemes (iii
and iv) have met with only marginal success: (i) All 100 New Women ITIs/Wings
(WITIs) have been established (estimated cost Rs. 615 million) and are functional
with some 24300 (against a target of 16000) women having completed their training
during the project; (ii) 117 (of 120) demand-driven courses in 19 new trades covering
64 existing WITIs have been introduced with reported output of 6,600 graduates; (iii)
the target of establishing 4 new RVTIs could not be fully achieved due to delays in
site acquisition. These centers are functioning in temporary locations with limited
facilities and staff shortages; and (iv) the scheme of strengthening the existing RVTIs
and NVTI could not get planned inputs due to delays but has still resulted in
producing some 1600 graduates against the target of 1304.
OBJECTIVE 2: Expanding Advanced Vocational Training Program
11.   Overall, the objective of expanding advanced skill training for instructors and industry
has been partially achieved as summarized below:
(a) Expansion and Improvement of Advanced Vocational Training Programs: In the
Central sector, training in six ATIs has been strengthened and expanded in new
areas. Advanced training facilities exist in 30 (of 33) ITIs. The remaining three in
UP and Haryana will start operations in 1999. Total outputs reached 33,000 against
the revised target of 17,000. Training outputs from MP and Orissa are low while
Maharashtra and Gujarat exceeded the targets. These institutions still suffer from
inadequate staffing and equipment and will take some time and further investments
to achieve the level of quality programs planned at appraisal.
(b) Apex Hi-Tech Center and Units: The outcomes of a TA contract which was signed
with GTZ in July 1995 include: (i) some 200 staff months of training (including 24
staff months in Germany) provided to staff; and (ii) curricula developed after careful
need assessment; and (iii) equipment lists prepared. The Apex Hi-Tech Training
Center (a key resource center) could not be established as planned. This is a major
shortfall in the achievement of project objectives due to delays in decision making.
The Apex Center is now functioning with limited capacity in a temporary location
and one program for industry has been conducted recently. Some training has also
been provided to staff from 19 Units (located in 10 ITIs, 7 ATIs, NVTI and 1 RVTI)
which will start offering Hi-Tech training programs in 1999, after equipment
installation is completed.
OBJECTIVE 3: Improving NVTS Planning Management and Supervision
12.   The objective of improving planning and management was marginally achieved. The
status is summarized below:



5
(a)     Improving NVTS Planning Management and Supervision: The Project
Implementation Units at the DGET (CPIU) and 18 States (SPIUs) were established
after some delay and initial training was given to the newly recruited staff at the Indian
Institute of Management, Calcutta. In spite of adequate number of staff, these units
have suffered from frequent staff changes at the senior level. A major achievement of
the project has been in the development of closer interaction between industry and
ITIs. Major developments include - appointment of Advisory Committees; MOUs
between CII and State Directorates; partnerships between some ITIs and companies;
and more recently the joint management of ITIs by Govermment and the industry in the
northern States. These positive and expanding changes appear to be experimental in
nature with support from the DGET. With appropriate policy changes, could provide
a major breakthrough in the governance of ITIs.
(b)     Establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation System: The lack of progress in
this sub-component, in spite of keen interest and initiative by some States, typically
represents the reasons for delays in project implementation. Efforts were made by
some States (Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab and Karnataka) to develop and use MIS
modules with their own efforts. According to Internal Finance (IF) of MOL this
component required revision of the EFC even though it was included in the project
description of the Credit Agreement. Establishment of MIS could, therefore start only
in May 1997, after the revised EFC Memo was approved. Work was started by the
CPIU and its status is as follows: The MIS has been designed by the National
Informatics Center (NIC) and will cover 18 States, CPIU, and the NIC; equipment
procurement faced problems during the final stages and could not utilize project funds;
5 core MIS modules are ready and field-tested; the remaining modules are under
preparation; and staff training will start after equipment installation. The MIS will
now be established with funds to be provided by the DGET for which there is a strong
commitment.
(c)      Improving Testing, Certification and Documentation: The existing Trade
Testing and Certification wing at DGET could derive only marginal benefits during
implementation. Because of long delays in creation of key posts, the Documentation
Center is still in a preliminary stage of development and has a long way to go before it
provides useful service to the NVTS. The outputs include a seminar, field testing of
two question banks developed by the MOL's Central Instructional Media Institute
(CIMI), and plans to introduce objective type tests for one trade in July 1999 - hardly
enough to initiate even a minor change in trade testing.
(d)      Strengthening DGET Women's VT Unit: This component has resulted in the
appointment of 10 additional staff and creation of a Directorate of Women Occupation
responsible for overall development, planning, and monitoring.
(e)     Reorienting CSTARI: The capacity for expected research role of CSTARI,
agreed at appraisal, could not be developed and this might restrict research capability
that was planned for the future developments in the NVTS. Although some additional
staff and some equipment were provided, the TA provision (36 staff months of
consultants and 22 months of training) to CSTARI was not utilized and an opportunity
to reorient its activities has been lost. The activities performed during the project



6
implementation lag far behind the expectations at appraisal of 'a primary agent of
organizational change within the NVTS'.
13.   Major outcomes of the project, as expressed by sample beneficiary groups of students,
teachers and principals, and representatives from industry during three workshops conducted by
the ICR mission are: modernization of workshops; systematic faculty development; and
interaction between industry and ITIs, which should all be continued vigorously during the
operational phase.
14.   Some Key Unanticipated Project Gains: In spite of the problems listed earlier, the project
has achieved excellent results in two areas as summarized below. These developments go far
beyond the expectations of the SAR and are important contributions to the future growth of the
NVTS. These developments require careful support to be fully entrenched in the VT system.
(a) A draft paper proposing new policy initiatives for vocational training has been
prepared and reviewed by an Expert National Committee comprising representatives
of all stakeholders. The proposals are awaiting final review by the National Council
for Vocational Training (NCVT) and will then be sent to the Cabinet. The new
policy includes decentralization, involvement of industry in the management and
financing of VT, and flexibility in program design and delivery. This goes much
beyond the anticipated scope of the Industry-Institute Cooperation proposed in the
project and is likely to establish a lasting partnership with industry in the
management of VT.
(b) Output from New ITIs for Women exceeded the target by 52% - reported output
during the project period is about 24,300 against the target of 16,000. In addition,
6,500 have been trained in new trades in existing WITIs and some States have started
reservations for women in general ITIs also. The project has been successful in
increasing percentage of women enrollment in vocational training and this trend
deserves all support of MOL and the State Governments.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
15.   Implementation Experience: The large number of project components (about 20)
covering central institutions and 565 ITIs in 28 States and Union Territories made the
implementation difficult. The central control exercised by the MOL required approvals at each
stage and further contributed to the complexity in implementing an already difficult project. In
the earlier stages of implementation, therefore, the co-ordination problems slowed down progress
and constrained the achievement of project objectives. The reality that DGET - responsible for
oversight, and the CPIU - responsible for project implementation at the national level - faced a
number of operational constraints (with no power for financial approvals, creation of posts, or
staff appointments) limiting their capacity to make timely implementation decisions could not be
foreseen during  project preparation.   These difficulties persisted and  slowed  down
implementation and led to a restructuring of the project and resetting of targets in December
1996.
16.    The Credit had to be extended twice by a total of two years. After the first extension to
December 31, 1997, IDA agreed to extend the closing date by another year for three critical



7
components - Modemisation of Equipment, High Tech Training, and Establishment of
Management Information System (MIS). For the remaining sixteen components, the project
closed on December 31, 1997.
17.   It appears that the Internal Finance Division (IF) of MOL was guided by only the EFC
document and not by the Credit agreement in its strict financial control over the project. The
need for approvals required at every stage was the single largest contributor to delays in the
project. The price escalations and contingencies were not allowed and the components could not
exceed the EFC approved ceilings. Project entities lost all flexibility and could not use additional
funds that became available due to a stronger SDR without revision of the EFC memo and the
first such revision in 1996-97 took about one year.
18.   The services of professionals within and outside the NVTS were well utilised in
monitoring, evaluation, and development of strategies. Some examples include: (a) a tracer study
was completed by the Indian Statistical Institute in 1997 in the States of West Bengal, Tamil
Nadu, Delhi, and Gujarat. This study confirmed gains in the external efficiency in comparison to
non-project institutions; (b) an impact study, completed by the CPIU and SPIUs covering 7 States
(Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Goa, Tamil Nadu, Kamataka, West Bengal, and Orissa), confirmed
substantial internal efficiency gains in project institutions; and (c) in 1998, the DGET in close
collaboration with the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) assessed the curricula, facilities
and the training process in 7 Northern and 4 Western States. This evaluation confirmed adequate
use of modem equipment, closure of obsolete trades not needed by the labor market, and major
gains in the percentage of equipment being operational.
19.   The above-mentioned sample-studies showed improvement in overall operational
efficiency of project ITIs by 10%; improvement in pass- rate range between 6-20%; decrease in
drop-out rate by 3-20%; increase in equipment being operational from a pre-project status of 50%
to 92% at project closing; employment rate of project ITI trainees improved from pre-project rate
of 50% to about 65% at project closing. The employment rate of trainees from project ITIs was
significantly better those than from other ITIs.
20.   Project costs: The total project cost at appraisal was estimated as US$429.8 million (Rs.
6877.9 million) of which the World Bank was to finance SDR 189.2 million as IDA Credit and
US$30 million as IBRD loan, GOI was to finance the remainder of the project cost. The
significant Rupee devaluation (by over 250% during the project implementation) increased the
proceeds from the Credit/Loan, which were partially offset by (a) increased percentage of
disbursements against all categories of expenditure at the request of the Borrower; (b) the
cancellation of SDR 29.5 million and the entire IBRD loan of US$30 million in December 1991.
In May 1993, another cancellation of SDR 35.7 million was made. After project restructuring,
further cancellations of SDRB 13 million in FY97 and SDR 9.7 million in FY98 were made at the
request of the Borrower. The total Credit/Loan was thus adjusted from SDR 189.2 million plus
US$30 million to only SDR 101.3 million in IDA Credit. The final project cost was about
US$163.5 million (about Rs. 5330 million equivalent). Final disbursement took place on May
24, 1999 after which time a, balance of US$17.468 million (SDR 12.98 million equivalent) was
cancelled.
21.    Credit amendments: The Credit agreements were amended at the request of the
Borrower four times during the project. These included:
* Revision in ceilings for civil works and prudent shopping (April 1991)



8
* Revision in percentage of expenditure to be financed by IDA (December 1991)
o Restructuring - Revision of Project Description (Schedule 2) ( April 1997)
* Minor amendment to Schedule 2 (paragraph 3b) on Hi-Tech Training (December
1997).
22.    Compliance with Covenants: With the exception of the following, all covenants have
been complied with fully or in a manner acceptable to the Bank (Table 10): (a) there were
substantial delays in staff appointment and utilisation of technical assistance; this led to
suspension of disbursements during July 1994-January 1995; (b) there were four occasions when
audit report submissions from some States were delayed resulting in temporary suspension of
SOE (statements of expenditure) procedure for disbursements for the whole project (Table 1 l);
and (c) completion of four studies agreed during project negotiations were delayed by a few
months.
23.   Procurement and Staff Appointments: Procurement of works and equipment, and staff
appointment were completed with considerable delays which necessitated two project extensions.
24.   Of 480 civil works in the States, 473 are completed. The States faced the problem of
multiple State- evel as well as Central approvals before inviting bids and the final award of
contracts. The DGET approved the scope and estimated cost for works under each scheme
during the initial years of the project and transferred the Central shares on this basis. Many
w.orks faced delays resulting in price escalation. Any modifications and subsequent cost
escalation were not approved by the DGET for reimbursement purposes. However, with regular
monitoring by DGET, all but 7 works (which are also nearing completion) were finally
completed. Some Central schemes also could not take off due to abnornal delays in site
acquisition, appointment of an implementation agency, or appointment of architects. This led to
the cancellation of all five major works in the Central sector by the Bank
25.   Despite all efforts made by the CPIU  and SPIUs, and two-year extension, some
equipment could not be procured in time. The involvement of highly experienced NTPC and
DGS&D as the procurement consultants/agency did not prove very effective and probably added
yet another layer of approval to the already complex and multi-layered approval process.
However, the State level procurement was more efficient and even procured additional equipment
when NTPC could not handle certain packages. Due to financial and power crises, sorne
manufacturers could not deliver equipment in time. Timely preparation of the equipment
specifications, bid packages and institution-wise lists of requirements, greater penalty for delays
in equiprnent delivery, and removal of many layers of approval would have helped in minimizing
some of the delays in procurement.
26.   The project suffered from the long time taken in creation of posts and appointment of
personnel through Public Service Commissions. Critical monitoring by the review missions and
CPIUJ finally resulted in about 88% of the key posts filled. The central institutions continue to
have larger percentage of posts vacant.
27.    Studies: All the four studies agreed during appraisal have been completed after minor
delays. CPIU has reported completion of ten additional studies covering a wide range of critical
issues in the NVTS (Table 7). Some additional studies on Hi-Tech Training were carried out
with German assistance outside the project funding.



9
28.   Major Factors which Influenced Implementation: Key factors which helped in project
implementation were: (a) Strong commitment and desire of concerned officials of GOI and many
States to make a difference in the system; (b) appropriate leadership in many project institutions;
(c) close interaction amongst States during joint reviews of all States by GOI and the Bank
initiated from 1995; and (d) significant involvement of industry in reviews and policy reform
planning.
29.    Some key factors that affected project implementation adversely included: (a) lack of
empowerment of DGET/CPIU/SPIUs and project institutions and over-centralisation; (b) non-
familiarity with the Bank procedures and frequent changes in senior officials both in GOI and in
the States; (c) delays in creation and filling of key posts; and (d) poor perfornance of
construction agencies (State and Central Public works Departments) and central procurement
consultants (DGS&D and NTPC).
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   The sustainability of the project is likely. Project States have made provisions in the
Ninth Plan to ensure that incomplete components, which closed on December 31, 1997, would be
completed. Progress reports submitted by States indicate satisfactory progress with support from
only State funds. All new ITIs and new trades will be supported fuilly by the States. Government
of India is continuing the schemes of modernization, staff training, MIS, AVTS, and Hi-Tech
training. It will take sometime before the new RVTIs and the Apex Hi-Tech Training Center are
established as planned. Only the pilot scheme of training for self-employment may not continue
in most places due to poor response. An operational plan with monitoring and impact indicators,
acceptable to the World Bank, has been carefully prepared and summarized in Table 6. During
the operational phase, adequate funds should be available to complete unfinished works and to
continue quality improvement activities.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
31.    The MOL, DGET and State officials appreciate the World Bank's role in project
preparation, and in supervision during the last four years. They feel that the Bank played a
constructive role in identifying and addressing the implementation issues. The Bank, however,
underestimated the issue of the project's complexity. Apparently, the appraisal process failed to
identify the institutional and systemic weaknesses that delayed implementation for four years. It
also did not attempt to suggest any alternative to the very complex internal project management
and financing structure.  The implementation problems that surfaced immediately after
effectiveness were not foreseen. It is apparent that the project was prepared and appraised under
extra-ordinary circumstances when India was facing a major financial crisis and the Bank wanted
to respond quickly with a possibility of entry into the field of education and training in India. To
a large extent, the Bank's decision to transfer the responsibility for project supervision to the
New Delhi Office and to place a vocational/technical educator there enhanced its capacity to
respond to emerging problems and expeditious clearance of diverse procurement issues.
32.   The DGET and the States are critical of the Bank on two counts: (a) the Bank's initial
refusal to agree to extend the project when implementation had picked-up momentum and then
finally agreeing to give a one-year extension only two weeks before the closing date. This



10
belated decision when States were winding up the SPIUs and the experienced senior staff were
looking for other assignments slowed down progress and resulted in another one-year extension
for some components; and (b) the Bank's interaction with the States and SPIUs was missing in
the earlier stages (perhaps due to travel restrictions imposed by the Borrower) and could have
accelerated progress as it did in the final 3-4 years. Overall, the project States considered Bank's
role to be highly professional, helpful and constructive.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   The Borrower's project preparation was effective with clearly defined objectives and
programs. There were, however, noticeable mismatches between the Detailed Project Report
(DPR) of MOL prepared in 1989 and the SAR/Credit Agreements. The Internal Finance treated
the DPR attached to the EFC document with a defined total cost in Rupees as a strict guide and
did not allow flexibility or provisions for cost escalations or exchange rate variations during
1989-96. These often led to different perceptions/interpretation between the Bank and the GOI
during implementation, which should have been resolved at early stages of the project.
34.   The project implementation staff in States and at the CPIU was professionally qualified,
but lacked prior experience in project management and implementation of such a comprehensive
and complex package of reforms having inter-related components supported by the Bank. The
project's implementation suffered from frequent changes of the Director General of DGET and
the senior State officials, abnormal delays in creation of key additional staff positions and the
selection and appointment of personnel, and in providing Central approvals to schemes already
agreed in the project. The changes in the Central Government and Goverrnents in 28 State/
Union Territories added to delays in approvals and timely release of funds. However, despite all
these factors, the concerned officials at the Center and States ensured success of the project in
large measure with their extra-ordinary efforts during the last three years of the project.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
35.   Assessment of the overall outcomes of the project is complex. In terms of timely
implementation of components, the project did not give a satisfactory performance. If delays and
cancellations are ignored, the project outcomes for the State components covering 85% of project
costs are satisfactory. In summary, the achievement of overall objectives is as follows:
(a) the sectoral policy objectives were generally achieved. The reduction in staff
vacancies, training of instructors, and introduction of demand-driven courses in the States
are close to targets. With the development of a revised policy framework, some important
steps regarding governance and financing of VT are underway;
(b) the Institutional Development objectives were only partially achieved. Schemes such
as Media Resource Centres, Trade Testing and Certification Cells, equipment maintenance
system, and the MIS could take off only after long delays and although most of these
initiatives are in place, their continued effectiveness would only be known during the
operational phase; Research, etc., did not reach critical mass to be sustained;



I1
(c) the Physical objectives were generally achieved in the States schemes but only
partially in the central schemes. Civil works, equipment procurement, training and
recruitment of staff-all were successfully completed by the States whereas the schemes
in the central sector were cancelled during restructuring due to land acquisition issues and
significant staff vacancies;
(d) the poverty reduction objective has been adequately achieved. Vocational Training is
mostly availed of by the weaker sections of the society to improve their employment
prospects and earning capacity. Introduction of new trades and increase in output in
numbers as well enhancements in quality have contributed to poverty reduction;
(e) the gender concerns have been adequately addressed Output from the NVTS in terms
of number of women trained has exceeded the SAR targets by 52%.
H.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
36.     The MOL as well as the States strongly supports the view that a highly skilled technical
workforce is necessary to maintain the country's competitiveness in the emerging global
economy. Satisfactory future operation of the project would depend on the completion of
remaining incomplete tasks and availability of State/GOI funds. Table 6 provides a summary of
the operational plan prepared by the Borrower and gives details of expected provision of funds
for project supported or project initiated activities after the project closing. Continuation of
quality improvement activities (staff training, use of modern instructional aids and material,
maintenance and up-gradation of infrastructure, advanced/hi-tech training, etc.) are an important
part of this plan. The Operational Plan also provides indicators for monitoring and evaluation of
future operation.
37.   Recent efforts made by the MOL in improving governance and funding of training
institutions to accelerate the quality improvement activities with the active participation from
industry have been successful in many States. Many new models of governance have emerged
resulting in a new draft policy for NVTS. Future support, if any, from the Bank should focus on
support to this new policy, which is now in the final stages of approval.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.   Following is a summary of important findings and key lessons learned during this first
Project in this sector in India:
(a) The project appraisal should have taken a closer look at the institutional capacity
relative to project complexity and identified institutional and systemic weaknesses that
delayed project implementation;
(b) The EFC memo for such a comprehensive national project with interdependent
components should discourage selectivity in component approval by the MOL's
Internal Finance during implementation. It should provide some flexibility during
implementation and should also take into account normal price escalations and
currency fluctuations, and should preferably be designated in SDRs. After approval of



12
the EFC memo, further approvals of the project components should not be sought
during the implementation stage;
(c) The project could have achieved greater success with more decentralization and
flexibility to States and ITIs in the selection of trades according to local needs, in the
procurement of equipment, and in curriculum development;
(d) In a national project with a high degree of complexity, participatory approaches during
project preparation and implementation that involved States, ITIs and other
professional institutions could have improved project ownership and outcomes;
(e) Frequent changes in the senior implementation staff should be avoided. Technical
assistance, especially training, should be provided to project implementation staff in
Bank procurement whenever a first project is approved in a sector;
(f) To avoid delays in project implementation, land acquisition and architectural design of
buildings should start before negotiations. Any works not coming to the bidding stage
within six months of the agreed schedule should be cancelled along with the other
relevant components; and
(g) A field-based supervision with close interaction with the client and project
beneficiaries proved to be very effective and economical.



13
INDIA: VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
I|A. Achievementofobjectives       Substantial    Partial            | Negligible             Not
__  [applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                      X
Sector policies                       X                        .
Financial objectives _   ____X_ _
Institutional development                               X
Phv_sical o_biectives                                   X
Poverty reduction                     X
Gender concerns                       X
Other social objectives                       .                                             X
Environmental objectives                                                                    X
Public sector management                                                                    X
Private sector management                                                                   X
Other (Specify)                 _ ._ .                                 .     _              X
L    --   -  - -         _~~~~Lkely                Unlikely               Uncertain         
B. Project sustainability          L         X                                    Uneti
C. Bank performance                 1i;   satisfacto              Satisfay                  Deficient
Identification                                                      X
Preparation assistance                                              X
Appraisal                      __ __                                                __X
Spervision                                          _                            _ X
D. Borrower performance            Highly                  Satisfactory                 Deficient
__________________________      _   | satisfactory          _                            _     _     _
Preparation  ___I_                                    I             X              I      _I
Implementation                                           X (the last four years)      X (during the
____________________________       _________.  _________   ._. ____. __  --_ ----_--- _   first four  years)
Covenant compliance                                      X  (the last four years)     X (during the
I ________________________  I        ________________   I     _____________I_____           first   four   years)
Operation (if applicable)     L                                     X ._x_1_                          I
Highly       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory            Highly
_   satisfacto_                                         unsatisfacto
E. Assessment of outcome                                 X



14
INDIA: VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit                  Purpose/Achievement               Year of      Status
I                                            I approval
Past Operations
Cr.342-IN       To support university level agricultural education and  1973   Closed in 1982
Agricultural    reasearch at Assam Agricultural University, Rajendra
Education      Agricultural University in Bihar and Institute of
Project        Agriculture Research in Delhi. PAPR noted that
noted that most of the objectives had been achieved.
Cr.3093-IN      To improve the quality of instruction in Departments  1989   Closed in 1996
Electronics     of Electronics in selected engineering colleges and
Industry        polytechnics through modernization of equipment,
Development    staff development, learning resources development
Project         and industrial training of students. Project
objectives were achieved.
Cr.2130-IN First  To support the GOI's 10 year Investment program,  1990   Closed on
Technician      aimed at capacity expansion, improvement of             Sept. 30, 1998
Education       quality and efficiency of the technician education
Project         system, in selected states. Project objectives were
_  fully achieved.                                             _
Ongoing Operations
Cr. 2223-IN     To support GOI's 10 year Technician Education  6/14/05  To close on
Second          Investment program aimed at capacity expansion,         June 30,1999
Technician      quality improvement and efficiency improvement of
Education Project the technician education system in 10 project states
Cr. 2699-IN     To improve the quality and relevance of higher  1995   To close on
Agricultural    agricultural education and in-service training          Dec.31,2000
Human Resource in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu.
Develop. Project                                             I         I
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle   Date Planned          Estimate
Identification                 Sep-87              Sep-87
Preparation                    Jan-88              Feb-88
Appraisal                      Sep-88              Nov-88
Negotiations                   Jan-89              Apr-89
Board Presentation             Feb-89              Jun-89
Signing                        Mar-89              Jun-89
Effectiveness                  May-89              8/8/89
Mid Term Review               12/31/94             6/1/93
Project Completion            12/31/96            12/31/98
Loan Closing                   4/30/99             4/30/99



15
INDIA: VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 4: LoanlCredit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ million)
IFY90 FY91 IFY92  FY93 IFY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98 FY99
Appraisal Estimate  11.20  42.001 98.00 140.00 196.00 224.00 266.00 280.00 280.00 280.00
Revised Estimate    29.68  30.07  45.00  57.00  69.00  84.00 100.00 114.00 126.00 138.89
Actual             27.82  30.07  44.41  53.73  64.67  80.80  94.04 111.38 122.31  121.42
Actual as % of
revised estimate    93.73 100.00  98.69  94.26  93.72  96.19  94.04  97.70  97.07  87.42
Date of final                                                                   5/24/99
disbursement
Loan/Credit Disbursements
300.00
250.00 -
200.00 -
* Appraisal
X                                                            Estimate
O 150.00-
* Revised Estimate
100.00 -
O Actual
50.00-
D3Actual as % of
revised estimate
0.00                                     i_               _ _ _ _ _ _  _
FY  FY  FY  FY  FY  FY  FY  FY  FY  FY
90  91  92  93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Financial Year



16
INDIA: VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Project sub-components and                        Target as in SAR          Modified *           Achievernents
key indicators                                    (or in DPR of GOI)          Target
1   Modemization and Replacement of Obsolete Equipment
Number of ITIs modemized                           About 400              378                    378
2   Establishing a equipment maintenance system:
Maintenance Centres in ATIs                            6                   6                      6
Maintenance Workshops in States                       19                   19                     19
Maintenance Cells in ITls                             100                 100                     93
Specialized staff trained                             552                 450                    574
3   Introduction of new basic training trades
Additional new trade courses                   376 courses in 205    376 courses in 205      370 courses in
introduced                                            ITIs               ITis                  204 ITIs
4   Provision for AV equipment, AV aids, creation of Media
Resource Centres and staff training in AV equipment
Number of ITis provided with AV equipment          about 400              387                    387
Number of MRCs established                            10                   10                     10
Number of staff trained                          3200 ( 6 weeks)    6000(2-3 weeks)       6222(for 2-:3 weeks)
5   Upgrading of instructors (State Sector)
Number of staff trained                         1750 (12 months)    3500(6-12 months)      3784(6-12 months)
6   Expansion of pilot post ITI training for self employment
Number of ITIs offering training                      95                  41                      36
Number of persons trained                            9000                4000                    1175
7   Creation of new BTCs & RICs
Number of BTCs established                            24                   16                     18
Number of RICs established                            44                  44                      44
Number of persons trained in BTCs & RiCs             98410               96450                  95474
8   Creation of new WITIs/Wings
Number of WITIstwings created                         100                 100                    100
Number of women trained (cumulative)                 16000               16000                  24300
9   Introducing new trades in exisUng WITIs
Number of WiTis/Number of courses               72 ITls,18 trades   641Tls, 18 trades      64 ITIs, 18 trades
introduced                                        (120 courses)      (120 courses)           (117 courses)
Number of additional training places created
in existing and new WlTlslWings                      12000               12000                  11908
10   Establishing new RVTls for women
Number of RVTIs established                            4          4 (Provision of staff      4 (running at
& equipment only)       temporary locations)
Number of training places created                     784                 400                    484i
11  Introduction of new trades at NVTI/RVTls
Number of advanced level trades                   17 Advanced       at basic & 4 advanc    17 at basic & 5 advanced
Number of training places created                     936                 780                    575
12  Introducing new advanced skill training in AVT centers
Number of AVTS Centres                                34                  33                6 ATIs & 30 ITIs
Trainees output during the projecttyear              21576               21500                  34014
13  Introduction of high-tech training courses              Establishing      High-Tech Center'    preparing to introduce
Number of Locations                            1 High-Tech Center    10 ITls & 9 ATIs   Hi-Tech training programs
& 19 ATIs/lITIs   (TA/Equipment only)      at 19 ITIs/ATIs
14   Establish linkages with industry
Assign Industrial Liaison Officers in ITIs            400                 400           Principals/ Apprenticeship
Officers act as Liaison Officers
Setting up Industry Advisory Boards in ITIs           400                 400                    24()
15   Establishing Project Management Units
SPIUs                                                  18                  18                     18
CPIU                                                   I                   1                      1
Training of staff in management                       42                   42                     79
No. of staff in Women's Cell in DGET                50 staff           12 key staff           12 key staff
16  Introduction of computerised MIS for                                                           5 core software modules
monitoring and evaluation                                                                         prepared by NIC
Number of States with MIS for VTS                      18                  18                     18
17   Filling up instructor & other staff posts
Number of posts to be filled                         4500                4200                    3756
Targets modified on restructuring in 1996



17
INDIA: VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
A. Completion of unfinished components
Ai. State Sector Components
Components            Actions proposed and time frame for completion
Civil Works           Bihar proposes to complete remaining 7 civil works in 1999
Staff Training        Andhra Pradesh (14), Bihar (82), Kerala (11), Meghalaya (7),
Nagaland (2), Himachal Pradesh (9) and Pondicherry (1) propose
to complete the targets (deficiencies of number of staff to be
trained are given in brackets) by 1999
AVAids Training       Assam (31), Bihar (9), J&K (13), Kerala (82), Mizoram (4), Tamil
Nadu (27) and West Bengal (28) propose to complete the training
in 1999
Filling up key staff posts  Andhra Pradesh (19), Assam (20), Bihar (83), Gujarat (2)
Haryana (61), Karnataka (25), Kerala (1), Orissa (19), Punjab (10)
Tamil Nadu (1), Uttar Pradesh (40), West Bengal (18) have
have initiated steps to fill up remaining (x) vancancies
Establishment of      J&K (1 cell), Uttar Pradesh (2 cells) and West Bengal (4 cells) are
Equipment Maintenance  taking action to set up the remaining (x) cells in 1999.
System
Introduction of new trades 3 trades in Assam and 3 in West Bengal to be started in 1999
Expansion of AVTS     AVTS in 2 ITIs in Haryana and 1 ITI in Uttar Pradesh will be started
in June 1999
New Trades in existing   Remaining 2 trades in Assam and 1 trade in West Bengal will be
Women ITls            introduced by August 1999
A2. Central Sector Components
Components/Schemes  Actions proposed and time frame for completion
Trade Testing and     Will be taken up for implementation during IX Plan and beyond, by
Certification         the Government of India
Hi-Tech Training      Will be continued with Central and State funds. External
assistance is also being tied up for setting up Apex Institute.
New RVTls             Construction of RVTI buildings at 2 locations has been approved,
activities will continue during IX Plan
B. Continuation of Operations
B1. Funding Provisions
Schemes               Financial allocations made to continue operations
Central Sector        A plan outlay of Rs.1 140.5 million for all 14 Central Schemes and
Rs.729.5 million for 7 Centrally sponsored schemes, from GOI
approved under IX Plan.
State Sector          States have proposed IX Plan allocations for continuing
operations: Andhra Pradesh Rs.165m, Assam Rs.186.8m, Bihar
Rs.121.3m, Delhi Rs.270m, Goa Rs.142.2m, Haryana Rs.229.9m,
J&K Rs.320.9m,Karnataka Rs.370.2m, Kerala 214.0m, Madhya
Pradesh Rs.841.1m, Mizoram Rs.24.2m, Punjab Rs.602.7m,
Rajasthan Rs.900m, Tamil Nadu Rs.138.2m, U.P. Rs.820.0m,
West Bengal Rs.560m
B2. New Initiatives
Actions proposed      Status
Setting up Skill       Dialogue with employers' groups is in progress, by a DGET
Development Fund for   constituted Tripartite Committee
CTS and ATS
Partnership with industry  Some states have initiated steps to involve industry more in ITI
activities and strengthen linkages with industry
New Policy framework for Draft Policy paper developed by an expert committee to ensure
NVTs                  long term, sustainable development of NVTs in under circulation to
_________________ states for their comments



18
C. Key Indicators for Prolect Operations
Key Area         Activity                    Proposed Performance Indicators          Targetted     Monitoring Agency &
Value        (Method Proposed)
Cl. Improving    Upgrade training and improve   Student Admission Rate                    100%      DGET, State Directorate
Efficiency and   internal efficiency         Student Drop Out Rate                        <10%      (SD) Cross Sectional
Effectiveness of                             Student Pass Rate                            >80%      Analysis (CSA) and Time
CTS                                          OutputUCapacity Rate                         >75%      Series Analysis (TSA)
Cost/student/year                              -      would be employed.
Industry assessment of training                -      Periodic sample surveys
effectiveness
Maintain and upgrade physical  Maintenance level of buildings/utilities           DGET, SD
infrastructure              Equipment in working condition               >95%     Sample surveys
Effectiveness & efficiency of maintenance             CSArTSA
cells
Staff Training              % of instructors deputed for training/year   >10%     SDIDGET (MIS)
% of teachers deputed for industry           >10%      - Do -
orientation
% teachers receiving awards etc.
Expenditure on training as a % of salary
expenditure
Preparation of annual Staff Development
Plans
Use of modem instructional    % teachers trained in the use of AV aids   >80%     DGET/SD (MIS)
aids and resources          % teachers trained in pedagogy               >75%     (Sample surveys)
Evidence on the use of instructional aids
in teaching/leaming
Availability of AV equipment in working
condition
No. of OHP/number of training units in ITI
Availability of CIMI material
Performance of MRCs in training and                   MIS, studies
production
Availability of raw         Expenditure on raw material per trainee      As per    DGET/SD (MIS)
materials/consumables       per month                                 NCVT norms
Actual availability of raw materials for              (Surveys)
training
Enhance relevance and       % of graduates getting employed within 6              DGET/SD (MIS)
extemal efficiency          months, in each trade
% of graduates becoming self-employed                 (Tracer studies, sample
surveys)
Comparison of employment rates of
graduates from new trades, and
conventional trades
Level of involvement of industry in course
development, testing etc.
C2. Strengthening  Provide facilities for practical   % of apprenticeship seats filled    >90%      DGET/SD
Apprenticeship    training for trades which do not % of apprentices passing tests         >80%
Training         have them.                  % of apprentices getting employed within               CSArTSA
6 months of passing tests                             Tracer studies & aurveys
Industry rating of quality of practical
training
Provide facilities for related  Industry training of quality of instruction       Surveys
theory instruction          % ublization of BTC seats
_ % ublization of RIC seats                              MIS



19
Key Area         Activity                   Proposed Performance Indicators            Targetted   Monitoring Agency &
__________  ________________   _________________________          Value     'M ethod   oro Dosed)
C3. Advanced Skills Establish AVTS and provide    % of Govt. ITIs having AVTS
Training         relevant training          Number of manweeks of Advanced Skill         >90%     DGET/SD (MIS)
Training conducted/Designed capacity
Establish High Tech Training   % of manweeks of training provided to    >50%     Sample surveys
Centres                    industry sponsored trainees
Evidence of employer partidpation in
running AVTS
Revenue generated from courses against      >25%
recurring expenses for AVTS
C4. Increased    New ITis for Women         % increase of women trainees in CTS,                  DGET, Women's Cell, SD
Access to Skill                             ATS, AVTS, RVTI Trade-wise annually
Development of
Women            New RVTIs and strengthening   Capacity utilization, Drop-out rate, pass          (MIS, Tracer studies)
existing Institutes        out rate, employment rate, self                       Sample surveys
employment rate for trades offered.
Equipment availability for training
Existence of special schemes, facilities
to promote women's paricipation
C5. Improved     Establish Special Cells (PMUs) Number of PMUs in full operational state,         DGET, SD
Planning &                                  in each major state                                   (MIS)
Management       Establish computerised MIS    Developing an effective Monitoring &               Sample studies
Capacity of NVTS                            Control system and its use
at Central and   Strengthen research capacity   Adherence to prescribed standards in
State levels                                ITIs, WiTIs, AVTS, ATS, RVTI, NVTI, etc.
Strengthen Testing &       Operational level of MIS
Certificabon process       % utilization of CSTARI training and
research capacity
Strengthen Industry Institute    Number of research studies
interaction                conductedlyear
Quality of research studies conducted                Peer review of studies by
DGET appointed groups
Effectiveness and efficiency of testing              Review Committee of DGET
and certification process installed
Number of ITIs and other institutions                MIS
having IMCs with industry participation
Evidence of involvement of industry in               Surveys
course development testing, training and
curricular decisions
Number of labor market studies                       MIS
conducted and utilization of information in           Review Committee of DGET
curricular decisions.



INDIA: VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study            Purpose as defined at appraisallredefined    Status                 Impact of Study
1  An evaluation study on      a) To build and enhance in-house research   All studies (1-4) have The results of all the studies helped in
self-employment scheme.     capacity on vocational training with DGET    been completed and  the formulation of new policy paper
institutions (CSTARI, NVTI and RVTWs)  their outcomes shared on Vocational Training Policy
2  A Tracer study of ITI certificate                                  with the Bank in 1996 framework under development.
holders in the labor market.    b) To gain further knowledge and insight    & 1997.
which could contribute to the overall
3  A study of quality and efficiency  performance of the vocational training  These studies were
of instruction in ITIs.     system.                                carried out using   Discussion on a Vocational Training
in-house capacity and Policy Framework draft prepared by
4  A review of accreditation                                          external consultants  a tripartite committee, is underway
standards and their application                                    with Bank approval.  within the MOL. It will be taken up
with particular reference to                                                          for Government approval and
managing the growth and quality                                                        adoption.
of government and private ITIs.
5  Evaluation of quality and   To identify major weaknesses of the    Studies 5-12 were
efficiency of NVTs.         system affecting internal and external  conducted using an
efficiencies and to suggest reforms for  external consultant on
upgradation.                           suggestions of the
Bank during mid-term
review. Outcomes
have been shared with
the Bank.
6  A review of the Advanced    To gain information for quality and efficiency  Study completed in
Vocational Training System  improvement of AVTS.                   January 1996
(AVTS)
7  Critical Review of the testing and To take steps for improving the testing and    Study completed in
certification scheme for    certification process.                 January 1996
designing and developing an
efficient, appropriate and
sustainable system.



Study            Purpose as defined at appraisallredefined    Status                Impact of Study
8  Review and analysis of      To improve the quality of apprenticeship  Study completed in   As above
Apprenticeship Training System  training.                         January 1996
9  Systematic identification of staff To bring about qualitative changes in the  Study completed in
training needs and design of an  Staff Development programs.      January 1996
upgraded Staff Development
System.
10 Upgrading women's training  To identify and analyse employment     Study completed in
program                     potential for women's programs.       January 1996
11 Staff Development and Training  To review staff development programs and   Study completed in
for Women's Program         validate them.                        January 1996
12 Training needs analysis, course  To ensure relevance curricula development  Study completed in
and curricula development and                                     January 1996
specification of equipment
13 Trainers Training Demand Survey To develop infrastructure for existing State   In addition to S.Nos.  Studies have been discussed with
and Central Institutions for implementing  13 & 14, ten more    concerned Institution heads and
Hi-Tech Training Scheme               studies were        approved for adoption during the
completed by the   operation phase for implementing the
consultants (GTZ) out scheme.
of project funds.
14 Development of a proposal for
establishment of Apex Hi-Tech
Training Institute
Note: Another 5 studies/proposals were carried out by GTZ (outside project funds) to formulate implementation plan for development of Hi-tech Training Schemes
to be implemented in identified State and Central Institutes, and for setting up an Apex Hi-Tech Training Institute at Bangalore.



22
lndia:Vocational Training Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
ITEM              Appraisal estimate  S$M)          Actual/Latest estimate (US$ML
Local Costs IForeign Cost  Total  I Local Costs IForeign CostQ   Total
I) Investment Cost
1.Civil works & Furniture  42.900       7.600    50.500      19.4701      0.0001      19.470
2. Equipment & Books      180.400      69.600   250.000     101.500       1.600      103.100
3.Local/Overseas Training  13.800       4.100     17.900      2.020       0.000        2.020
4.Specialist Services       1.800       2.000      3.800      0.260       4.300        4.560
TOTAL of I           I   238.900[      83.3001  322.2001    123.2501      5.9001    129.150
II) Recurrent Costs
5.Honoraria & Travel        9.900       0.000      9.900      1.760       0.000        1.760
6.1rncremental Salaries    63.600       0.00C    63.600      22.820       0.000       22.820
7.Consumable Materials     11.600       0.600    12.200       1.780       0.000        1.780
8.1ncremental Maintenance  17.200       0.900    18.100       0.000       0.000        0.000
9.Miscellaneous             3.600       0.200      3.800      7.990       0.000        7.990
TOTAL of _                105.900       1.700   107.6001    34.350        0.000       34.350
TOTAL OF I & 11       |   344.8001     85.0001  429.8001   157.6001       5.9001    163.500
Note:
1) US$1=Rs.16 (at appraisal); US$1 =Rs.32.67 (Average over Project Period)
2) There are foreign cost component (indirect cost) in equipment, books and consumables.
However, this is difficult to estimate hence not been indicated in actual cost.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source             Appraisal estimate ( S$M)         Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local cost Foreign costs   Total   Local costs Foreign costs    Total
IBRD/IDA                  195.000      85.000   280.000     116.950       4.470      121.420
Cofinancing institutions    0.000       0.000      0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000
Other extemal sources       0.000       0.000      0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000
Domestic contribution     149.800       0.000   149.800      40.650       1.430       42.080
TOTAL                     344.800      85.000   429.800     157.600       5.900  7 63.500
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Analysed



INDIA: VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement         Section        Covenant Present Original  Revised               Description                  Comments
type    Status fulfilment fulfilment              of
date      date               Covenant
CREDIT    Article IV,                01        C                        Maintain records and accounts    Fulfilled
Credit     Section 4.01 (a)                                             which reflect Project operations,
Number:                                                                resources and expenditures.
IDA-20080  Article IV,               01        C                        Maintain records for the Special  Fulfilled
Section 4.01 (b)(i)                                         Account for each fiscal year to be
audited annually by an independent
auditor.
Article IV, Section       01       CD                        Provide a certified copy of the audit  Audit certificates for
4.01 (b)(ii)                                                to IDA no later than nine months    some project entities
after the end of each fiscal year  delaved.
Article IV, Section       01       C                         Provide other information on records, Fulfilled
4.01 (b)(iii)                                               accounts and audits as IDA may
._________ _________   ________   _____ request.
Article IV, Section       01       C                        For all expenditures from the     Fulfilled
4.01 (c)(i)                                                  Credit/Loan which are made by
SOE, the Borrower shall maintain
records and accounts of such
expenditures in accordance with
_                   Section 4.01 (a).
Article IV, Section       01       C                        For all expenditures from the     Fulfilled
4.01(c)(ii)                                                 Credit/Loan which are made by
SOE, the Borrower shall retain all
records of expenditures until at least
one year after the FY audit has been
received by IDA.
Article IV, Section       01       C                        For all expenditures from the     Fulfilled
4.01(c)(iii)                                                 CreditVLoan which are made by
SOE, the Borrower shall allow IDA
representatives to examine such
records.
Article IV, Section       01       C                        The Borrower shall ensure that   Fulfilled
4.01(c)(iv)                                                 records and accounts referred to in
para (b) are included in the annual
audit, which must also contain an
opinion of the auditors as to the
I____________reliability of these records.
Schedule 1, Para 3        03       C                        No withdrawals will be made from    Fulfilled
any category unless the State or
Union Territory has satisfactorily
provided a Letter of Undertaking to
IDA.



Agreement         Section        Covenant Present Original  Revised               Description                  Comments
type    Status fulfilment fulfilment              of
date      date               Covenant
Schedule 4, Part Al       05       C                        Maintain a Central Project        Fulfilled
Implementation Unit (CPIU) within
DGET to coordinate, supervise and
.________________      ________ _Imonitor project implementation.
Schedule 4, Part A2       04       C                        Ensure adequate funding for       Fulfilled
equipment maintenance during
proiect duration.
Schedule 4, Part A3       05       C                        Submit proposed implementation    Fulfilled
plan for the following project year to
include, without limitation, plans for
staffing and training, land
acquisition, and financial
procurement and construction plans.
Schedule 4, Part A4(i)    10      CD    12/31/94   8/1195  Undertake and provide the following  Report received in July
studies: an evaluation of the self    1995
employment scheme.
Schedule 4, Part A4(ii)   10      cc      9130195   5/20196  Tracer study of ITI certificate holders Report received in May
in the labour market.            1996. Another study
completed in December
1997.
Schedule 4, Part A4(iii)  10      CD    12/31/94   7/31/96  Sample study of ITI instruction.  Report received in
December 1995 but not
accepted by IDA.
Another report submitted
in July 1996.
Schedule 4, Part A4(iv)   10      CD      7/31/95   7/31/96  Application of accreditation    Final report received in
standards in selected ITIs.     July 1996.
Schedule 4, Part A5       09       C                        Provide a mid-term review of the  Fulfilled
progress of the Project to identify
implementation problems and
actions required to strengthen
subsequent project execution.
Schedule 4, Part A6       10       C                        Continue a policy of establishing  Fulfilled
local level advisory committee and
the appointment of industrial liaison
officers at each ITI assisted under
the Project to ensure adequate
linkages between industry and the
project ITIs.



25
INDIA: VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table II: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement
Number and                                  Comments
Title
OP/10.02      Para 9 of OP 10.02 states that if within 4 months after the due date the Bank
Financial     does not receive acceptable audited financial statements, the Bank normally
Management  discontinues the use of the SOE procedure.
For non-receipt of acceptable audited SA financial statements from some States,
the Bank suspended disbursements using the SOE procedure on three occasions:
Date of suspension Fiscal year for which   Date of reinstatement on
of SOE procedure  audited statements were   receipt of audited statements
not received
May 6, 1996            1994-95                 June 17, 1996
June 5, 1997           1995-96                 July 28, 1997
May 12, 1998            1996-97                June 30, 1998
OP/13.40      Para 2 of OP 13.40 states that the Bank may decide to suspend disbursements as
Suspension of of a specific date unless the borrower takes certain remedial action, by a specific
Disbursements date, for reasons unrelated to payment.
Pursuant to Section 3.01 of DCA, read with Section 6.02 of the general conditions
applicable to DCA, the right to make withdrawals was suspended, effective July 6,
1994, due to unsatisfactory progress in key project components.
On achieving the specified benchmarks for progress in these components (specified
by the Bank), the suspension was lifted on January 13,1995.
India: Vocational Training Project
Table 12: Bank Resource Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle    Planned            Revised            Actual
Weeks   US $K   Weeks   US $K    Weeks   US $K
Through Appraisal       NA       NA       NA        NA       105     240.00
Appraisal through Board    NA    NA       NA        NA       15      35.00
Approval
Board approval through    NA     NA       NA       NA        12      28.00
effectiveness
Supervision             25     550.00    302      675.00    283     643.40
Completion              17      43.50     19.1    44.00      15      30.00
TOTAL                                                       430      976.40
Note: Complete information not found in available records.



26
INDIA: VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of       Month/   Number Days Specialised              Performance rating       Types of problems
Project cycle year       of        in    skills         Implemental Development
Persons field  represented  status          Impact
Through        9/87, 2/88,    7      60  GEd, Arch, Ec,
Appraisal      5/88, 8/88                 TE, VITS, Mec,
lPrE
Appraisal         3/89        5           GEd, Con,
through                                   Arch, DS, TE
Board Approval
Supervision       9/89       3       7   TE, IS, IRS          1              1
1/90       3       7   TE, IS, Con          1              1       Staff appointments and
creation of infrastructure for
implementation
9/90       3       11  TE, IS, TS           1              1          ----do--
2/91       3       16  TE, IS, TS           2              2       CPIU Staffing
4/92       3       20  TE, IS, TS           2              2       Women's cell in CPIU
undersrtaffed
1/93       2       17  VTS, IS              2              2       Procurement delay
Mid-Term    5/93       3       18  VTS, IS, TE          2              3        Delay in Staff appointment.
Review                                                                        Delay in use of TA
9/93       3       19  VTS, IS, TE          3              3        Delay in filling of staff posts
6/94       3       12  as above             U              U        Disbursement suspended
due to unsatisfactory
_________  _ _I _                                       progress
Supervision       2/95       3       20  TE, MTE, Arch        U              U        Slow progress in Central
I_______  components
10/95       3      26  TE, MTE, Arch        U              U        Implementation progress not
satisfactory
5/96       3       32  TE, MTE, Arch        U              U        as above
11/96       3      21  M, MTE, ES           S            S, S, U    Slow implementation of
Central components
5/97       3       24  TE, MTE, Arch        S           S, S, U     as above
1198       3       17  ES, Arch, MTE  _              __ =____
6/98       3     __ _ MTE, ES, TE           S           S, S, U     Procurement delay
11198       4      13  MTE, ES, TE          S            S, S,U      -
Completion        1/99       3       15  MTE, ES, TE                  I              I
Abbreviations:   GEd - General Educator, Arch - Architect, Ec - Economist
TE - Technical Educator, VTS - Vocational Training Specialist
MEc - Manpower Economist, PrE - Procurement Engineer
TTS - Technical Training Specialist, Con - Consultant
DS - Disbursement Specialist, IS - Implementation Specialist, IRS - Industry Relations Specialist
TS - Training Specialist, MTE - Management & Technical Educator
ES - Education Specialist, M - Management



The World Bank                                      New Delhi Officc            Phone: (11)4617241/ 4619491
INTERNAnONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  70 Lodi Estate            Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION              New Delhi 3, India           Mailing Address: P.O. Box 416
Telex: 3161493 IBRD IN
Facsimile: (I 1) 4619393
February 12, 1999
Mr. L.D.Mishra
Secretary to Govenment
Ministry of Labor
Shram Skakti Bhavan
New Delhi I 10(QI
Dear Mr. Mishra,
INDL4: Vocational Training Project (Cr.2008-IN)
I would like to express my thanks for the assistance and support provided by your colleagues
and State officials to the IDA ICR Mission during January 28 to February 11, 1999. Attached is a
copy of the mission's aide-memoire which incorporates the discussions during the wrap-up meeting
held on February 1 t, 1999. The mission's has informed me that it is still going through the detailed
material provided and the final findings could undergo some minor changes.
We propose to send our draft ICR for your comments by April 15, 1999 and would expect
your own evaluation report of the project by the end of April 1999.
Regards,
Sincerely,
Edwin R. Lrim
Country Director, India
Attachment
cc:    Mr. V. Govindaraj an, Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of
Finance, North Block, New Delhi 110 001
Headquarters: Washington, D.C., U.S.A



ANNEX A
INDIA
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Credit 2008-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMEPLETION REPORT MISSION
(January 28-February 11, 1999)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
INTRODUCTION
1.    An IDA mission comprising Messrs. S.K. Shrivastava (Task team leader), Y. Saran
(Education specialist, Consultant), and G.S. Chandran (Technical educator, Consultant)
participated in a mission to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the
Vocational Training Project. The mission wishes to thank Messrs. A. Nimbalkar, Additional
Secretary, MOL; S. Krishnan, DGET; G. S. Sethi, Director, Central Project Implementation
Unit (CPIU) and his colleagues for their participation and valuable inputs in discussions with the
project States throughout the mission.
2.   Shortly after assembling in New Delhi, the mission discussed the scope of work with the
DGET and the CPIU officials and agreed on a schedule of activities. These activities included
visits to Pune and Bangalore for detailed discussions at regional meetings with the employers,
teachers and the students and to get a better picture of project implementation through field visits
to some institutions. The findings of this mission are subject to further refinement and
endorsement by the Bank Management. These are based on the comprehensive progress report
prepared by the CPIU, reports prepared by the State Project Implementation Units (SPIUs),
materials in the project files, mission's observations from the field trips, discussions with
teachers, students and employers, and discussions with various institutions/ project units
including CPIU, SPIUs, and senior officials of the MOL. The mission acknowledges with deep
gratitude the assistance and courtesies extended to it by numerous central and State agencies
with which it met. Special thanks are due to the officials of Delhi, Karnataka, and Maharashtra
for the excellent arrangements for the regional meetings and the warm hospitality extended to the
mission.
PROJECT BACKGROUND
3.    The project was the first IBRD/IDA assisted project in vocational training in India. It
was intended to support the Ministry of Labour's (MOL) long-term program to modernize and
restructure the National Vocational Training system (NVTS). Main weaknesses identified by
DGET were: (a) need to modernize/upgrade equipment, outdated curricula, shortage and limited
skills of instructors and instructional resources to satisfy changing needs of the growing
industrial sector; (b) weaknesses in NVTS to cope with planning, management, monitoring and
trade testing to ensure higher efficiency, quality and standardization; (c) poor participation of
women in industrial labor force; (d) inadequate opportunities for employment in the organized



2
sector to workers from poor socio-economic background; and (e) lack of training which supports
self employment of graduates.
4.    To address these issues the MOL sought Bank financing through the Department of
Economic Affairs (DEA) of Government of India. A project proposal prepared by DGET with
assistance from ILO and UNDP in 1983 was substantially modified and submitted to Bank. The
project was appraised in November 1988, approved by the Board in April, 1989, and became
effective on August 8, 1989.
Project costs:
5.    The total project cost at appraisal was estimated as US$ 429.8 m (Rs.6877.9m) of which
Bank was to finance SDR 189.2m (about US$250 m) as IDA Credit and US$30.0 m as an
IBRD loan, GOI was to finance the remaining US$149.8 m equivalent. The significant Rupee
devaluation increased the proceeds from the credit which were partially offset by the cancellation
of some US$69.0 m in FY 92, which included the entire IBRD loan of US$30.0 m. In FY 93
another cancellation of SDR 35.7 m was made. After project restructuring further cancellations
of SDR 13.0 m in FY 97 and SDR 9.8 m in FY 98 were made bringing the available credit down
to SDR 101.3 m. The mission estimates a further saving of about SDR 10 m at project closing.
The project would thus close utilising only about 45% of the original credit/loan amount.
6.    The credit was extended two times by a total of two years. The first extension to 31 Dec
1997 was made consequent to continued concerns expressed by Review missions about the
achievement of all developmental objectives by the original closing date -- 31 Dec 1996. The
Borrower had agreed to complete the components during the extended period through revised
action plans and close monitoring. In December 1997 IDA agreed to extend the closing date by
another year for three critical components- Modernisation of equipment, Hi-Tech Training and
MIS. For the remaining 16 components the project closed on 31 Dec 1997.
Project Objectives
7.    The primary objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the quality and efficiency of
basic craftsmen and apprenticeship training (b) expand and diversify the advanced training
programs; and (c) strengthen the NVTS planning and managerial capacity. The participation of
women was to be increased in all these programs.
8.    The project had three major components:
(a) Modernising craftsman and apprenticeship training through re-equipping about 400
selected Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and developing related training systems,
extending trade coverage of the National Apprenticeship Training Scheme at 24
Basic Training Centres and 44 Related Training Centres and increasing women's
access to training in modern trades by constructing about 100 new ITIs for women
(WITIs) and introducing about 18 new trades in about 72 existing WITIs/ Women's
Wings in ITIs.
(b) Expanding, Advanced Training Programs by introducing about 17 new trades at the
advanced skill level in existing Regional Vocational Training Institutes (RVTIs) and
at the National Vocational Training Institute (NVTI), establishing about 34 new



3
Advanced Vocational Training System Centres and establishing a new High
Technology Training Centre for electronics, computers and robotics; and
(c) Improving NVTS management and planning at DGET and corresponding State
Directorates of Training through strengthening the monitoring and evaluation
system, improvement of the testing and certification processes, reorientation of
management/supervisory training, and strengthening of research in vocational
training.
9.    Project objectives were clear, highly relevant and important to MOE's long term program
to modernise and restructure NVTS and rightly aimed at revamping the system. Objective-wise
the financial allocations, as stated in the SAR were: Modernisation of training - Rs.3726 million
(75.9%); Advanced Training Programs-Rs.825.7 million (16.8%); and NVTS Planning and
Management -Rs.355.8 million (7.3%).
Project Restructuring
10.   The CPIU and the DGET were subjected to a number of operational constraints
hindering its capacity to implement a project of such magnitude and complexity. These
deficiencies persisted in spite of an action plan agreed during mid-term review. This led to the
restructuring of the project and resetting of targets in December 1996. The restructuring of the
project made the following changes in its scope:
(a) Expansion of the post- ITI training for self employment to cover only 41 ITIs against
an earlier target of about 100 ITIs.
(b) Creation of 18 new BTCs and 44 RlCs in trades and theoretical areas, against an
original target of 24 new BTCs and 44 RICs.
(c) Introduction of 18 new trades in non-traditional areas in 64 WITIs and Wings
against the earlier target of about 72 WITIs/ Wings
(d) Provision of staff and equipment for 4 new RVTls for women in place of
construction, staffing and equipment for the same.
(e) Introduction of about 10 new trades at the basic level and 4 at the advanced level
skill training in RVTIs and NVTI in place of 17 new trades at the advanced level
(f) Provision of only technical assistance for establishment of an Apex Hi-Tech
Training Centre for Electronics, Computer and Robotics (and cancellation of the
provision of works and equipment for this Centre).
Through another amendment in December 1997, provision of equipment for Hi-Tech training at
19 ITIs and Advanced Training Institutes (including the NVTI and one RVTI) was added.
PROJECT PROGRESS SUMMARY
11.   The Project Review Aide-Memoirs report very slow progress during the first four years
of implementation. However, the implementation improved gradually in later years and resulted



4
in accelerated progress during the last 2-3 years. The project components were implemented
through 20 central or centrally sponsored (State sector) schemes of GO01. Their status is
summarized below:
OBJECTIVE 1: Quality Improvement of Craftsman and Apprenticeship Programs
12.   The status of achievement of Quality Improvement Objective according to the
achievement of physical targets has been satisfactory. A sample tracer study coordinated by
CSTARI and impact studies conducted on a limited scale by some States provide evidence of
quality improvement. However, due to delays in equipment procurement and installation, and
teacher recruitment and training, the full impact on quality of training is yet to be assessed. The
status is summarized below:
(a) **Modernization of Equipment in existing ITIs: Against the revised allocation of
RS 2873 million (appraisal estimate - Rs. 1590 million) for Equipment, about
Rs.2500 million were utilized to replace some obsolete equipment in 378 ITIs
established before 1969. Some modem equipment are also added in selected ITIs.
While the States of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, MP and Orissa exceeded the targets,
some States (AP, Bihar, UP) could not take advantage of additional allocations.
(b) Introduction of New Trades: The targets for expanding the training capacity have
been met with the introduction of 370 (of 376) new trades in 204 ITIs. With the
exception of Assam and West Bengal all States have met the targets and to date some
28,000 students have completed their training in the new trades.
(c) AV Aids and Media Resource Centers (MRCs): 387 ITIs have been provided with
AV equipment. After considerable delays, 10 MRCs were established -- 7 at ATIs,
one each at a CTI, an NVTI, and an RVTI. About 80% equipment has been procured
and is in use. These MRCs were to train 3200 ITI instructors in upgrading
instructional capabilities of trainers in the use and development of instructional
software through courses of 6 weeks duration. Because of the delays, the States
utilized services of MRCs at ATIs and State institutions and trained some 6200 staff
through courses of only 2 weeks duration with the Bank approval. Most States
exceeded the revised targets. The major shortfalls were in Kerala (22%) and Assarn
(27%), due to restrictions on travel outside the State. During discussions, the
instructors as well as the students reported use of AV equipment on a limited scale
for enhancing the quality of instructions.
(d) Equipment Maintenance System: To develop equipment maintenance capability in
the NVTS, 6 Regional Service Centers, 19 Equipment maintenance Workshops in
different States and 93 Cells (of 100 planned) have been established. Four Cells in
West Bengal would be operational soon and J & K (1 Cell) and UP (2 of 12 Cells)
did not establish 3 Cells. About 85 % of the maintenance staff has been trained. A
study of 35 ITIs in 7 States commissioned by the DGET concluded that percentage
of machines in working condition has increased from a pre-project status of 50% to
92% at present.
lComponents marked ** closed on December 31, 1998 while others closed on December 31, 1997.



5
(e) Post-ITI Courses for self-employment: Facing operational difficulties and lack of
response from ITI trainees, the scope of this pilot scheme was scaled back after a
study, in 1995, to 41 centers from the appraisal target of 100. Finally, 36 ITIs in 11
States have started these programs and trained some 1200 students during the life of
the project. Other than recording reasons for lack of response from ITI graduates, no
serious efforts were made to improve program design and delivery, provide qualified
instructors or appropriate infrastructure.
(f) Basic Training (BTC) and Related Instruction Centers (RI): To improve and expand
Apprenticeship Training Programs two components had varying degree of success
with considerable delays: (i) as per the revised target 18 BTCs (17 in States and one
at RDAT Kanpur) have been established, which have provided basic training to
some 2650 apprentices in trades not adequately covered by ITIs. Another BTC will
start in Bihar by end- 1999; (ii) all the planned 44 RiCs (38 in 18 States and 6 in
Regional Directorates of Apprenticeship Training ) have been established and
trained some 70,000 apprentices. States have reported 5-23% increase in pass rates
in apprenticeship programs.
(g) Women's Training: To improve access to women for training in modem trades four
schemes have been implemented. The two State schemes (i and ii below) have
achieved and some even exceeded the target while Central schemes have met with
marginal success: (i) 96 (of 100) New Women ITIs/Wings (WITIs) have been
established (estimated cost RS 615 million) and are functional with some 24300 (
against a target of 16000) women having completed their training during the project.
The remaining 4 in Bihar are expected to be fully operational in 1999 after
completion of civil works and appointment of staff; (ii) 117 (of 120) demand-driven
courses in 19 new trades covering 64 existing WITIs have been introduced with
reported output of 6,500 graduate; (iii) the target of establishing 4 new RVTIs
could not be achieved due to delays in site acquisition. These centers are, however,
functioning in temporary location with limited facilities and staff shortages and
conducting the courses as per revised target; and (iv) the scheme of strengthening
the existing RVTIs and NVTI, in spite of less than planned support due to delays
resulted in producing some 1600 graduates against the target of 1304.
OBJECTIYE 2: Expanding Advanced Vocational Training Program
13.   Overall, the objective of expanding advanced skill training for instructors and industry
has been partially achieved as summarized below:
(a) Expansion and Improvement of Advanced Vocational Training Programs: In the
Central sector, training in 6 ATIs has been strengthened and expanded in new areas.
Advanced training facilities exist in 30 (of 33) ITIs; the remaining 3 in UP and
Haryana will start operations in 1999. Total outputs reached 33,000 against the
revised target of 17,000. Training outputs from MP and Orissa are low while
Maharashtra and Gujarat did very well. These institutions still suffer from
inadequate staffing and equipment and will take some time and further investment to
reach the planned level of quality programs at appraisal.



6
(b) **Apex Hi-Tech Center and Units: Although a TA contract was signed with GTZ
in July 1995, some 200 staff months of training (including 24 staff months in
Germany) was provided to staff, curricula were developed after careful need
assessment and equipment lists was prepared, the Apex Hi-Tech Training Center (a
key resource center) could not be established as planned. This is a major shortfall in
the achievement of project objectives due to delays in decision making. The Apex
Center is now functioning with limited capacity in a temporary location and one
program for industry has been conducted recently. Some training has also been
conducted for staff of 19 institutes ( 10 ITIs, 7 ATIs, NVTI and RVTI) which will
start offering Hi-Tech training programs from 1999/2000. In these institutes,
renovations to buildings have been completed and equipment installation is in
progress.
OBJECTIVE 3: Improvine NVTS Plannin2 Management and SuDervision
14.   The objective of improving planning and management were marginally achieved. The
status is summarized below:
(a) Improving NVTS Planning Management and Supervision: The Project
Implementation Units at the DGET (CPIU) and 18 States (SPIUs) were established
after considerable delays (about 2 years) and were adequately staffed but suffered
from frequent staff changes at senior level. Staff of these Units were trained at the IIM
Calcutta. A major achievement of the project is closer interaction between industry
and ITIs. Major developments include formulation of Advisory committees, MOUs
between CII and State Directorates, partnerships between some ITIs and companies,
and work started in the northern States for reaching an understanding on joint
management of ITIs by Government and the industry. The outcomes, supported by
DGET and the MOL, are positive and rapidly expanding require continued support.
With appropriate policy changes, there could be a major break through if the current
trend continues.
(b) **Establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation System: Efforts were made by some
States (Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab and Karnataka) to develop and use MIlS modules
with their own efforts. According to Internal Finance (IF) of MOL this component
required revision of the EFC even though it was included in the project description of
the Credit Agreement. Establishment of MIS could, therefore start only in May 1997,
after it was included in the revised EFC. The MIS, designed by the National
Informatics Center (NIC), will cover 18 States, CPIU, and the NIC. Equipment
procurement faced problems during final stages; 5 core MIS modules are ready and
field tested; remaining modules are under preparation; and staff training will start after
equipment installation. The MIS will now be established with funds to be provided
by the DGET for which there is a strong commitment.
(c) Improving Testing. Certification and Documentation: The existing Trade Testing and
Certification wing at DGET could derive only marginal benefits during
implementation. Because of long delays in approval of creation of key posts, the
Documentation center is still in a preliminary stage of development and has a long
way to go before it provides any useful service to the NVTS. The progress so far
includes appointment of (4 of 6) professional staff; completion of minor civil works;
and initiation of the procurement process of equipment. The outputs include a



7
seminar, field testing of 2 question banks, and plans to introduce objective type tests
for one trade in July 1999 - hardly enough to initiate a major change in trade testing.
(d) Strengthening DGET Women's VT Unit: This component has resulted in the
appointment of 10 additional staff and creation of a Directorate of Women Occupation
responsible for overall development, planning, and monitoring. Details of future
plans, and staff development activities of this directorate are awaited and will be
incorporated in the ICR.
(e) Reorienting CSTARI: The capacity for expected research role of CSTARI, agreed at
appraisal, could not be developed and this might restrict research capability that was
planned for the future developments in the NVTS. Although some additional staff
and some equipment was provided, the TA provision (36 staff months of consultants
and 22 months of training) to CSTARI was not utilized and an opportunity to reorient
its activities has been lost. The activities performed during the project
implementation lag far behind the expectations at appraisal of 'a primary agent of
organizational change within the NVTS'.
(f) Studies: All the four studies agreed during appraisal have been completed after minor
delays. CPIU has reported completion of 8 additional studies covering a wide range
of critical issues in the NVTS.
Procurement and Staff Appointments
14.   Procurement of works, equipment, and technical assistance (TA) were completed with
considerable delays which necessitated two project extensions; the second was given in
December, 1997, to facilitate procurement of modem and hi-tech equipment and TA. Could the
delays in procurement have been avoided? Probably yes, but even the qualified staff responsible
for project implementation and procurement succumbed to red tape.
15.   Civil Works: Of 438 civil works in the States, 431 are completed. The States faced the
problem of multiple State level as well as Central approvals before inviting bids and the final
award of contracts. The DGET approved the scope and estimated cost for works under each
scheme during the initial years of the project and transferred the Central shares on this basis.
Many works faced delays resulting in price escalation. Any modifications and subsequent cost
escalation were not approved by the DGET for reimbursement purposes. However, with regular
monitoring by DGET, all but 7 works (which are also nearing completion) were finally
completed. Some Central schemes also could not take off due to abnormal delays in site
acquisition, appointment of an implementation agency, or appointment of architects. This led to
the cancellation of all 5 major works in the Central sector by the Bank
16.   Equipment: Abnormal delays in equipment procurement resulted in two postponements
of the closing date and even with these postponements, about 20% equipment could not be
procured. The involvement of highly experienced NTPC and DGS&D as the procurement
consultants/ agency did not help and probably added yet another layer of approval to the already
complex and multi-layer approval process. However, the State level procurement was more
efficient and even procured additional equipment when NTPC could not handle certain packages.
Timely preparation of the equipment specifications, bid packages and institution-wise lists of
requirements, and removal of many layers of approval would have helped in minimizing some
of the delays in procurement.



8
17.   Staff appointments: Delays in appointment of staff resulted in the availability, during the
last stages of implementation, of 3756 of 4250 created posts after considerable difficulties.
Because of this and some other failures, project disbursements were stopped once and another
likely stoppage was averted by timely actions taken by the DGET/MOL to meet the Bank's
requirements. These delays resulted in: (a) belated introduction of new courses; (b) most staff
training taking place during the end of the project for shorter than planned duration; and (c)
benefits from quality improvement initiatives being passed on to the students much later than
planned.
18.   **Technical Assistance: Technical assistance utilization has been delayed and is much
below the appraisal estimates. These delays reduced the capacity of central project
institutes/centers like CSTARI, NVTI and MRCs, to provide adequate services to NVTS for
improvement of quality. The project restructuring done in 1996 reduced and rescheduled TA
according to feasibility of implementation and urgency of needs in the States. New targets set for
State sector staff training have been generally achieved. DGET organised foreign training and
consultancy services in hi-tech areas through a contract with GTZ (The contract closed on July
15, 1998 with partial achievement). DGET have reported utilising bilateral and multilateral
assistance for foreign training and consultancy support. Overall, the TA component, because of
its reduced scope, has only marginally improved the capacity of NVTS to provide leadership and
expertise in setting up new thrusts.
Implementation Experience
19.   The project was plagued with delays since inception.  In the early stages of
implementation, State commitment and ownership was lacking and because of the large number
of States and agencies involved in implementation, there were many co-ordination and
management problems. Creation of minimum infrastructure in CPIU and in project States took
about two years. Lack of timely release of funds also contributed to delayed progress in timely
achievement of most project objectives. Bank missions expressed repeated concerns about: (a)
appointment of key staff; (b) failure to utilise technical assistance provisions; (c) lack of progress
in women's training; and (d) overall unsatisfactory performance led to a suspension of
disbursement in July, 1994. The suspension was lifted in January 1995. on satisfactory progress
in reaching benchmarks set by the Bank and the acceptance of conditions set for continued
support. In addition, disbursement was suspended four times due to delays in receipt of SOE
audit certificates. From 1995 State components of the project started showing steady progress.
Slow progress continued in Central components which included Hi- Tech Training Centre,
AVTS, RVTIs, NVTI.
20.   It appears that IF was guided by only the EEC document and not by the Credit agreement
in its strict financial control over the project. Because of approvals needed at every stage, this
was the single largest contributor to delays in the project. The price escalations and
contingencies were not allowed and the components could not exceed the EFC ceilings. Project
entities lost all flexibility and could not use additional funds that became available due stronger
SDR without revision of the EFC memo that took about 2 years.
21.   Major outcomes of the project, as expressed by sample beneficiary groups of students,
teachers and principals, and representatives from industry during 3 workshops conducted by the
ICR mission are: modernization of workshops; systematic faculty development; and interaction



9
between industry and ITIs, which should all be continued vigorously during the operational
phase.
Some Major Unanticipated Project Gains
22.   Some areas where the implementation resulted in unanticipated gains or exceeded SAR
targets include:
(a) A draft paper proposing new policy initiatives for vocational training has been
prepared and reviewed by an expert committee comprising representatives of all
stake holders. The proposals are awaiting final review by NCVT and would then be
sent to the Cabinet. The new policy includes decentralization, involvement of
industry in the management and financing of VT, and flexibility in program design
and delivery. This goes much beyond the anticipated scope of the Industry-Institute
Cooperation proposed in the project and is likely to establish a lasting partnership
with the industry in the management of VT.
(b) Output from New WITIs exceeded the target by 52% -- reported output is about
24,300 against the target of 16,000. In addition, 6,500 have been trained in new
trades in existing WITIs and some States have started reservations for women in
general ITIs also.
KEY LESSONS AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
23.   At the final closing, the commitment of States is high and repeated requests were made
by officials and industry to the Bank to continue support through another project as there is a lot
of work yet to be done. The mission was explained the well drafted operational plan. During the
operational phase, adequate funds would be available to complete unfinished works and to
continue quality improvement activities.
20.   Following is a summary of important findings and key lessons learned during this first
Project in this sector in India:
(a)    The EFC memo for such a comprehensive national project with interdependent
components should discourage selectivity in component approval by the IF during
implementation. It should provide some flexibility during implementation and should also take
into account normal price escalations and currency fluctuations, and should preferably be
designated in SDRs. After approval of the memo, further approvals of the project components
should not be sought during the implementation stage.
(b)    The project could have achieved greater success with more decentralization and
flexibility to States and ITIs in the selection of trades according to local needs, procurement of
equipment, and curriculum development.
(c)   In a national project with a high degree of complexity, participatory approaches during
project preparation and implementation, involving States, ITIs and other professional institutions,
could have improved project ownership and outcomes.



10
(d)    Frequent changes in the senior implementation staff should be avoided. Technical
assistance, specially training, should be provided to project implementation staff in Bank
procurement whenever a first project is approved in a sector.
(e)    To avoid delays in project implementation, land acquisition and architectural design of
buildings should start before negotiation. Any works not coming to the bidding stage within one
year of effectiveness should be cancelled along with the other relevant components.
Time Table for ICR:
The following time table for completion of the ICR was agreed during the mission:
Draft ICR sent to the Borrower ----------------   April 15, 1999
Borrower's draft ICR given to the Bank-------- ----  April 30, 1999
Borrower's comments received on Bank's ICR----  April 30, 1999.



Tele: 3710265
Fax: 3355679
_3T9 7fmq  TtI 1                                           Ministry of Labour
.   fTT F{r9                   SECRETARY                    Shram Shakti Bhavan
T fNi8-e909                    Govemment of India             New Delhi-l 10001
D.O.No.26(3)/97-CPIU (Vol.IV)                    May 28, 1999
I would like to thank you for your letter dated 1 lth May,
1999 enclosing a copy of the draft Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) of the World Bank assisted Vocational Training Project.
I agree with Bank's assessment that the outcome of the
project has been satisfactory. Sample studies indicate substantial
improvement in internal and external efficiency of the project ITIs.
There has been  improvement in  pass rate, retention  rate,
employment rate and operational efficiency in the Institutions
assisted by the project. The institutional development and physical
objectives have been mostly achieved except for a few central
schemes. It gives me satisfaction that Bank's ICR has commended
the extra-ordinary efforts made by the concerned officials at the
Centre and States to ensure success of the project. It has also
lauded their strong commitment and desire to make a difference in
the system. I also agree that services of professionals within and
outside the NVTS have been well utilised in monitoring, evaluation
and development of strategies. Apart from impact study in seven
States,. tracer study and evaluation of training in ITIs with
Confederation of Indian Industries quoted as examples in Bank's
ICR, formation of Institute Managing Committees and draft National
Policy paper on Vocational Training are also good examples of
favourable outcomes of the project, which were not originally
envisaged.
The reasons for slow progress in the implementation of
the project during the initial period could be attributed to the fact
that it was the first project in this sector both for the Ministry of
Labour and the World Bank. The Project was highly complex
involving 20 different schemes and 2B States/UTs apart from central
institutions.    There  were  differences  between  Bank's  and



Government's procedures. Once the initial bottlenecks were sorted
out, the pace of implementation picked up. However, delays in
granting approval for extension of the project by the World Bank and
ban on disbursements in July, 1994 despite gaining momentum :in
procurement of equipment and civil works hampered achievement of
objectives. In fact, it had been a good learning experience for design
and implementation of projects of this nature and magnitude. OuLr
view is somehow corroborated by the Bank's view mentioned in its
ICR that "This project had its origins in the World Bank's efforts in the
late 1980s to enter into the Education sector in India. This first
project, though rather ambitious and highly centralised with many
associated problems, led to a series of Bank assisted projects in
technician education and primary education with large investments."
In consideration of the circumstances, constraints and extraneous
factors brought out above, it would perhaps not be appropriate to
term Borrower's performance during first 4 years as deficient.
I would like to place on record our deep appreciation for
the support and cooperation provided by the members of the World
Bank's missions and other staff associated with the project, in
particular by Dr.S.K.Shrivastava. He has significantly helped in
accelerating the progress of implementation.
In the ultimate analysis it can be said that the project
was timely and relevant to Ministry of Labour's long-term objective
to modernize and expand NVTS. The outcome of the project has
been satisfactory. We are committed to build upon the gains from
the project and complete the remaining tasks. We appreciate Bank's
view that future support, if any, from the Bank should focus on
support to proposed National Policy on Vocational Training.
Yours sincerely,
(Dr. L. Mishra3
Mr.Ward Heneveld,
Education Sector, Team leader for India,
World Bank,
70, Lodhi Estate,
New Delhi - 110 003.



OWJ OlO   C;DZCD    ~DO~f ~
i~ ~~o tn             P M                     I
 p moneiition Compein Report
LI
~~01~~
Apr'il 1999
Government of India
Ministry of Labour           L
0:Dr               G      o E                    . Tn
So d       OEC W I  EOSFEZ                E



a    ITI,AKOLA MOD. EQUIP| 
EXHAUST GAS ANALYSER              !I]
A newtrde course  ~ 7 
rz         M.echanic 
Li                             AVTS, PUHE
PRHIG TECHNOLOGYj
_,  i                            .                                      v ::,:    . .1,4,,
,                            R-E^               ,>   W     



BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(ICR) FOR THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(A World Bank assisted Project: cr. no. 2008 IN)
Table of Contents
1 BACKGROUND ...............1
2 OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT .1
3 EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES.                                                            1
4 ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES/ ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME.                                    2
4.1 ACHIEVEMENT OF SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES .2
4.2   ACHIEVEMENT OF PRIMARY/ LONG-TERM OBJECTIVES/ VISION .3
4.2.1   Objective 1: Improve the quality and efficiency of Basic Craftsmen & Apprenticeship Training. 3
4.2.2   Objective 2: Expand and diversify theAdvanced TrainingProgram ..           4
4.2.3   Objective 3: Improving NVTS Planning Management & Supervision ..           4
4.2.4   Improvement in the participation of WoiAen in Vocational Training ..       5
4.2.5   Expansion of Capacity of Craftsmen Training Scheme: ..                     5
4.3 OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS..                                                             5
4.3.1 Sector Policy objectives                         .5
4.3.2  Sustainability of Institutions.                                             6
4.3.3 Social Objectives.                                                           6
5 MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.                                                 6
5.1  FACTORS NOT GENERALLY SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENT CONTROL .6
5.2  FACTORS GENERALLY SUBJECT To GOVERNMENT CONTROL .7
5.3  FACTORS GENERALLY SUBJECT TO IMPLEMENTING AGENCY CONTROL .7
6 BANK'S PERFORMANCE                                     .8
7 BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE.                                                              9
8 PROJECT OPERATION PLAN .10
9 KEY LESSONS LEARNT .10
ANNEXES
ANNEX- I   PROGRESS OF PROJECT SCHEMES AND COMPONENTS .                             A-I
ANNEX-II    DRAFT NATIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING POLICY .                              A-3
ANNEX- III  INSTITUTE INDUSTRY INTERACTION .                                        A-21
ANNEX - IV PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .                                             A-27
ANNEX - V  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..                                                 A-28
Abbreviattons..A-34
Ref efeencesA-35
C:kashwani\Impact_VTP\ICR report\ICR-mainreport WB.doc



Borrower's ICR for Vocational Training Project (VTP)                        Page I of 10
1 Background
Training is predominantly based on Craftsmen Training Scheme (CTS) and
VocationalApprenticeship Training Scheme (ATS). The Craftsmen Training Scheme
provides a structured Institutional training environment while the Apprenticeship Training Scheme is
a combination of Institutional and on the job training in which the trainees are exposed to industrial
environment. These Schemes need to be nourished on a continuous basis so as to keep them in
healthy condition. At the beginning of the project it was found that the physical infrastructure in
many of the Govt. ITIs had out-lived their useful life and required to be replaced/ modernized. A
strong need was also felt to expand the Vocational Training programs to meet estimated increase in
demand of skilled workforce. The Vocational Training Project [V . T . P . ] took off in 1989, bringing
in its fold major part of the Govt. ITIs [more than 500 out of the total of 862 Govt. ITIs in existence at
that time], Apprenticeship Training, training of in-service skilled workers and training of women.
2 Objectives of the Project
The project made a beginning with the following primary objectives; more appropriately be called
Vision /long term objectives, with a financial provision of Rs 4415 million (EFC approved).
 Improve the quality and efficiency of Basic Craftsmen and Apprenticeship Training;
) Expand and diversify the advanced training programs; and
ID Strengthen the NVTS planning and management capacity. To increase the
participation of women in each of the above areas
The above stated vision was to be achieved through the implementation of 19 schemes. The focus of
SAR, EFC as well as activities prescribed under the project was on following two issues:
o- Expansion of Vocational Training Programs to meet the projected demand of craftsmen.
ur Improvement in the infrastructure facilities [An underlying assumption appears to be to that
improvement in the infrastructure facilities would lead to improvement in quality and efficiency of
training programs i.e. achievement of vision in the long run].
Specific objectives placed before the project management units:
jr Implementation of 19 (revised to 20) schemes
ar Planning and administration of project finance and accounts
r  Procurement of equipment
ar Recnritment of staff and their training
ar Construction of buildings and
ar Monitoring and evaluation of Project activities.
3 Evaluation of Objectives
The primary objectives of the project were very important and appropriate to the NVTS.
However, these were indicated in a broader sense like improvement in quality and efficiency,
expand the scope and relevance, strengthening of planning & management capabilities. Some of the
terms used are not Measurable, Achievable & Testable (M4 T e.g. quality is a relative term and is
perceived differently by different persons. These objectives should have been mentioned in specific
quantifiable terms like the existing efficiency, the desired efficiency and the %age improvement etc.



Borrower's ICR for Vocational Training Project (VTP)                         Page 2 of 10
An important aim of the project was to expand basic craftsmen training and apprenticeship
training to meet the projected demand of craftsmen. Elaborate calculations have been made in the
SAR in this regard. However, this is not reflected in the primary objectives.
The specific objectives in terrns of implementation of various schemes and components given
to the implementing agencies were clear, important and measurable. The final design of the project
was not very appropriate for achieving the primary objectives of the project. Incentive system for
instructors and provision for industrial liaison officer for each institution was not incorporated into the
design of the project though mentioned in the SAR. The authority, powers and means needed by
implementing agencies for executing a project of this nature were not mentioned.
The project involved 20 different schemes virtually covering every aspect of vocational
training. These were to be implemented in 28 States/UTs as well as in Central institutions involving
large number of Central and State Government departments and agencies. The agencies were working
with the Bank for the first time. The project was, therefore, very demanding for the implementing
agencies, complex and risky. Sharing of expenditure by Central and State governments further
complicated the project.
4 Achievement of Objectives! Assessment of Outcome
Assessment of outcome! impact of the project has been done based on the studies
conducted by independent consultants, industry representatives as well as by CPIU and SPIUs. Both
quantitative and qualitative indicators have been used. A detailed assessment of outcome of the
..   .. ..   .   ..     .   . ..  . . .   ..............   .. ........    ....... .   ..   ...   . ..=   ........... = .,. ,. , .........  , =.. . . .
project has already been shared with the IDA and is available with DGET. A brief summary of
the assessment is given below:
4.1 Achievement of Specific Objectives
M       +4 o f st~~the physical and financial targets as well as institutional development objectives
M    OStlhave been met. The utilization of original project outlay is more than 100%. The
implementation of state sector schemes for most of the States has been highly satisfactory. In fact, the
achievement has been about 100% in most of the components and schemes except filling up of posts,
Equipment Procurement and Self-Employment Scheme as shown in the following table:
Achievement of Targets
Components                 '            Schemes
PHYSICAL TARGETS                           MoE   -100%
Staff training      - 108%*        S       AA      -100%
MRC   -100%
AV aids training- 104%*             f     BTC      - 100%
Civil Works         - 99.5%        5      RIC      -100%
WITI    -100%
Staff posts         -  87%                PMUs   -100%
'FINANCIAL TARGETS                           EMS   -98%
tNT      - 98%
Equipment           -  85%*               WINT   - 97.6%
r - Though some States have exceeded the targets  AVTS   - 92%
but some Sbtes have not achieved targets.] 
PROVISIONAL                              SEC      - 88%
$  A A At_'    _z.__, .,-- _ _ --- _  _......._...._._...



Borrower's ICR for Vocational Training Project (VTP)                       Page 3 of 10
The implementation of Central Sector schemes has been partially satisfactory. Hitech
Training Scheme, MIS (a new scheme added very late) and Trade Testing & Certification could not
be operationalised. The implementation of these schemes is expected to be completed within 1-2
years. Technical assistance for foreign training remained largely unutilized. New RVTIs have been
partially operationalised from temporary location as per the amended credit agreement.
f 78% of the expenditure (against 76% envisaged) has been for development of basic infrastructureA
(civil works & equipment). A very high percentage of investment into development of basic
4 infrastructure shows that basic objective of the Project to improve the infrastructure facilities has
been achieved. The expenditure on miscellaneous activities and components has been just 3%
against 6% allocated. This indirectly indicates high efficiency in project implementation.
4.2 Achievement of Primary! Long-term Objectives! Vision
The three primary objectives of the project could more appropriately be termed as Vision or
long term objectives. Assessment made towards the close of the project indicates partial to significant
achievement in respect of various primary objectives. However, a proper assessment can be made
only after about 2 years.
4.2.1  Objective 1:   Improve the qualit  and efficiency  of Basic  Craftsmen  &
Apprenticeship Training.
The achievement in respect of this objective has been substantial. The physical targets
and institutional development objectives associaied with this objective have been achieved. The
studies indicate significant improvement in effectiveness of training programs.
Internal efficiency of CTS:        As per independent assessment made by representatives of
industries, teachers and administrators, the project has considerably improved infrastructure facilities,
effectiveness of practical and theoretical training.
C)  The internal efficiency of CTS has improved as a result of improvement
in pass rate and admission rate and reduction in dropout rate.
   Theoperaton lefficiencPhs.mproved by about 10%.
   The improvement in pass rate varies from 6 to 20% in various States.
   The decrease in dropout rate ranges from 3-20%.
Extemal efriciency of CTS:         The analysis done by different methods and data collected
from various sources clearly indicate substantial improvement of the external efficiency of CTS.
   Employability of ITI graduates from World Bank assisted ITIs is far superior (higher
b 7f.8  to those from other Tis.
   The employers' opinion also indicates that the external effectiveness of CTS has
improved.
0   The employment rate would have been much better but for wide spread restructuring
taking place in industry due to globalization and liberalization and also due to general
economic recession.
0   However, there is further scope to improve the external efficiency.
Impact of Specific Schemes:
Modernization of Equipment Scheme has helped in improving the practical training e.g.
Maharashtra has reported qualitative improvement in practical training to the extent of 64.8%.



Borrower's ICR for Vocational Training Project (VTP)                       Page 4 of 10
Due to the establishment of equipment maintenance system, both the preventive and breakdown
maintenance of machines have shown a marked improvement. 92.32% (against 50% before the
project) of the machines and equipment in the ITIs were found to be in working condition showing an
improvement of 84.64%.
As per assessment of trainees, 86% of instructors use AV aids but 84% of these use them
occasionally. Still this is a big improvement over the pre-project conditions when almost 100% of the
instructors used only chalk and blackboard for imparting instructions. However, major thrust for
increasing the use of modem AV Aids in the instructional process has to continue.
The new trades introduced in the ITIs have higher employment rate than traditional trades.
Improvement in ATS:         The utilization of seats of apprentices as well as pass rate has
increased. Trades started under the project mostly belong to Chemical, Hotel & Catering, Leather,
printing etc. for which facilities under CTS were either not existing or were very limited.
4.2.2  Objective 2: Expand and diversify the Advanced Training Program
This objective has been partially achieved.
A VTS scheme:   The outcome and impact of AVTS scheme has been good.
6   34014 persons trained against the target of 17000 ie. overshootin gthe tag P00%M
6   Utilization of training capacity created has been 120. 5% *
6   70% of the trainees trained were industrial workers*.
- As per the sample survey conducted in 7 States]
o   Hitech Training Scheme significantly lagged behind and could not be operationalised.
However, some centers would be operationalised by the end of 1999. The Apex Hitech
Training Center has started functioning partially from a temporary location. The response to
the self-employment Scheme has been mediocre in most of the States.
4.2.3  Objective 3: Improving NVTS Planning Managementt & Supervision
This objective has been partially achieved.
v  Project Management Units:      The setting up of project implementation units at the
DGET and 18 States brought about a cultural change in the respective departments.
These were provided with modem office equipment and developed computerized MIS
for monitoring the progress of project. The units have also gained significant expertise
in policy formulations, planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of projects
and programs.
Some of the important achievements of CPIU and SPIUs are:
6   Success in implementation of the project and achievement of most ofphysical andfinancial targets as
well as institutional development objectives despite next-to-nothing autonomy, flexibility and authority
b   In house development of computerized MISfor monitoring the progress of several components
b   Preparation of draft paper on National Vocational Training Policy
'  Development of concept of joint management of ITIs by Govt. and Industry and initiating a pilot
project
b   Preparation Implementation Completion Report (ICR), necessary surveys and studies without the
assistance of external consultants.



Borrower's ICR for Vocational Training Pioject (VTP)                     Page 5 of 10
Studies:     31 studies have been conducted against the target of 4 (Ref. Annex-V).
Central Staff Training and Research Institute (CSTARI) has been strengthened as envisaged.
9 The institute has trained 2642 participants against a target of 2000.
Y  During last 5 years aQut SO t5adc sythi Kan beeN catevisd & d4egs d.
,   However, trade testing and certification and MIS scheme could not result in the desired impact
due to some slippage in the implementation.
4.2.4 Improvement in tlhe participation of Women in Vocational Training
A major achievement of the project is significant improvement in tie p'a'rticipation of women.
However, implementation of Central Sector Schemes related to NVTI'& RVTIs has been
partial., showing the need for site preparation prior to investment decision.
l i  Seats exclusively for women in CTS have increased by 119% from 20000 to 4380Q0..
Besides, seats in DGET institutes have increased by about 1000, covering, non-:.
conventional trades also.
lo  Some States have reserved seats for women in general ITIs.
o   Outputfrom New WITIs exceeded the target by 52% - 24,300 against the target of 16, 000.
a   The women cell at DGET has been strengthened and a separate directorate for -women
occupations has been created. The infrastructure of the Women Occupation directorate.has
been strengthened by providing additional staffand modern offi,e e,uipment.
4.2.5  Expalnsion of Capacity of Craftsmen Training Scheme:
An important rationale for the Bank's involvement in VTP was expansion of
Vocational Training programs to meet the projected demand of craftsmen. The
capacity of Craftsmen Training Scheme has significantly increased by 87% from
3.42 lakh in 2070 ITIs (1989) to 6.4 lakh in 4086 ITIs by the end of 1998. 
4I  Generation of strong interest in the capability of NVTS due to implementation of    .
'- ,!  the Project had been a major factor.
4.3  Other achievements
The project has even made good achievements in areas not explicitly mentioned as objectives
of the project such as sector policy, sustainability and social objectives including poverty alleviation
and equity concems.
4.3.1 Sector Policy objectives
The project has led to development of policy initiatives in various spheres of training. Most
significant have been related to Institute- Industry Interaction, specifically joint management of ITIs
by Government and Industry. Other areas in which initiatives have been taken include revenue
generation, sustainability of the programs, empowerment of women, training of trainers, restructuring
of NVTS, demand driven training, flexibility in the programs etc.



Borrower's ICR for Vocational Training Project (VTP)                        Page 6 of 10
National Vocational Training Policy
The project has led to development of draft National Vocational Training Policy document, first of its kind
in India, that has been highly appreciated by one and all. The World Bank's review mission of November
1998 also attended the meeting of expert committee and has acclaimed the draft paper. ICR mission (Jan
-Feb. 1999) of the World Bank has termed it as major unanticipated project gains. Comments recorded
by the two missions in their aide memoire are given below:
World Bank in Nov. 1998                    World Bank in Jan-Feb. 1999
The new  training policy has the    A draft paper proposing new policy initiatives for
essential elements for establishing a    vocational training has been prepared and reviewed by
progressive VT system and appears to    an expert committee comprising representatives of all
have  taken   note   of  current    stakeholders. The proposals are awaiting final review by
interational developments and their    NCVT and would then be sent to the Cabinet. The new
adaptation  to  the  unique  Indian   policy includes decentralization, involvement of industry
in the management and financing of VT, and flexibility
conditions.  This is a development    in program design and delivery. This goes much beyond
eagerly awaited and supported by    the anticipated scope of the Industry-Institute Co-
IDA and would definitely be a major    operation proposed in the project and is likely to
contributor to the sustainability of    establish a lasting partnership with the industry in the
project gains                         management of VT.
U_________._______.__F_________________._ -                                        *  ..vs
4.3.2 Sustainability of Institutions
t   Gradually, concept of making ITIs partiy self-sustainable by undertaking various revenue
generating activities is getting acceptance. Maharashtra State has introduced Production-
Oriented Training (POT) scheme in the ITIs.
r   State Govemments have made sufficient provisions for sustaining the programs.
or  Discussions to set-up skill development fund have also been started.
4.3.3 Social Objectives
The project has made significant positive contribution to the poverty alleviation and equity concerns.
-  50% of trainees benefited belong to very poor and poor families.
r   Underprivileged communities (SC/ST/OBCs) have got sufficient representation.
or  Alternative career path has been provided for academically poor performing students &
school drop-outs.
Impact on Other Govt and Private ITIs:    The demand for better quality of training is forcing
other Govt. and private ITIs also to improve training.
5 Major Factors Affecting the Project
5.1 Factors Not Generally Subject To Government Control
ar Inadequate capacity of suppliers to manufacture equipment in large quantity within short period.
Some of the suppliers closed down their operations due to financial crisis, labour problems, etc.
and could not supply the equipment. Foreign firms were not fully aware of World Bank
procedures.



Borrower's ICR for Vocational Training Project (VTP)                     Page 7 of 10
t- Perfornance of DGS&D, one cf the Consultants for central procurement of equipment was highly
unsatisfactory
tar High inflation rate had considerably increased the cost. Price and physical contingencies were not
provided in the project cost. There were also certain deficiencies in the original estimates.
Devaluation of Indian currency w.r.t. US$ (by about 180%) resulted in less disbursement claimed
in US$ and thus surrender of credit available.
z- Mismatch between accounting procedures of Foreign Consultants (GTZ) & that required as per
World Bank approved contract and uncertainty about funding of contract by the World Bank
r Most of civil works were small in nature, scattered in remote areas and required additions of 1-2
workshops in the existing ITI building without disturbing the on-going activities. Civil contractors
show less interest in executing such works. The World Bank's LCB procedure, which is quite
cumbersome and not suited for such small works delayed execution of works. Relaxation for
following LCB procedure for these works was received later but with certain conditions.
ar Some of the works got considerably delayed due to litigation problems.
K3r Delay in granting approval for project extension by the World Bank.
Delays in financial approval by the Government for continuation of the project at the time of both
the extensions due to the change of Union Government
5.2 Factors Generally Subject To Government Control
*r  Complex, cumbersome and time-consuming procedures. The Project implementation was, in
fact, subjected to triple bureaucracy - of the World Bank, the Central and State Governments.
ar  General ban on creation of new posts, filling up of vacant posts, reduction in existing posts and
other measures aimed at reducing Govt. expenditure as a part of SAP significantly delayed
implementation of schemes.
or  Some States faced severe financial resources constraints and could not provide sufficient funds.
or  Delay in filling up of posts and frequent changes in key staff at the Central & State levels.
or  CPIU and SPIUs were devoid of authority and powers to make decisions.
or  Integrated finance division of Ministry of Labour had the authority to sanction expenditure and
granting other approvals but it was not responsible for project implementation. So, it did not
have a stake in the success of the project and clearly lacked association with the project.
5.3 Factors Generally Subject To Implementing Agency Control
r Training of implementing officers should have been much more comprehensive -
encompassing not only purchase procedures but also technical knowledge, planning and
project management.



Borrower's ICR for Vocational Training Project (VTP)                      Page 8 of 10
6 Bank's Performance
Project identification was consistent with the Government's development strategy. The
preparation, design and appraisal of the Project was generally satisfactory but as mentioned under
the topic 'evaluation of objectives', it could have been much better. The SAR had identified 4 key
areas and linked the Project investments with these 4 key areas. However, two of these key areas
namely 'improving the incentive system for instructors particularly in the advanced skill programs'
and 'development of a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system as part of Management
Information System' were not incorporated in to the design of the Project.
SAR had identified several risks associated with the Project. However, corrective measures
for all risks were not incorporated into project design. Large number of schemes were clubbed
together in to a single project making it quite complex and demanding. The primary objectives were
not quantified.
Supervision: Since 1995, the supervision by the Bank became very effective and helpful in
accelerating the progress of implementation. The Bank started detailed reviews including holding
meetings with every participating states. This system proved to be a turning point and resulted in
much beneficial effects.
While the performance of the Bank can be said to be satisfactory and helpful in general,
yet the following few instances which had a negative effect need to be mentioned for proper
understanding of the overall outcome of the project.
onr  Ban on disbursements: Bank chose to impose ban on disbursements in July 1994 despite
momentum gained in equipment procurement and execution of civil works. Even adequate
steps were taken for the software components for which the Bank had expressed its concern.
The ban was lifted in January 1995 only when Secretary [Labour] took up the case directly with
the World Bank's Head Office in Washington. But the damage in the mean time was done,
because it sent wrong signals to all with the accompanying element of uncertainty [then
existing] about the possible period of the ban for which it might have lasted. In summary,
this step taken by the World Bank was in total disregard of the progress made till then and
seriously disrupted the project at a crucial time.
or  Excessive delays in granting approvalfor extension of project: This was the first project of its
kind for the DGET and the World Bank. Further, project was highly complex and demanding
having several shortcomings in design. A certain period of extension to the originally concemed
project period should have been taken in the right spirit and agreed to without imposing too
much of rigidity in the process. Unfortunately till July 1996 [the project was to close
originally in December 19961, the Bank failed to realize seriousness of the request for
extension made by Central and all the State Governments in one voice. The Bank's
approval for extension of the closing date by one year [i.e. up to December 19971 was
received in the last week of December 1996 with conditions of adding some new elements
while dropping some others. This necessitating fresh approval from EFC and CCEA. By the
time their approvals were received, half of the year 1997 was already over. During this period of
half a year, the project virtually remained in a state of suspended animation. The story was
repeated in nearly the same fashion at the time of second extension, which was granted for
Bank's financing only for a few selected components mainly for the new elements introduced at
the time of first extension.



Borrower's ICR for Vocational Training Project (VTP)                     Page 9 of 10
7 Borrower'.s performance
Borrower, in the context of this Project, comprises of Central and 28 State/UT Govermnents
and their various agencies and CPIU & SPIUs. CPIU and SPIUs were the implementing agencies but
the powers to sanction posts, budget, expenditure etc. and filling up of posts and construction of
buildings remained with other Government departments, e.g. Finance Divisions, Staff Selection
Commissions, Public Works Departments etc.  Therefore, it becomes pertinent to evaluate
performance of implementing agencies (CPIU and SPIUs) and other departments separately.
The preparation of Project was generally satisfactory.  The project report was very
comprehensive. However, it had many errors in the estimation of costs. There was no provision for
physical and price contingencies. These errors and deficiencies led to serious problems in the
implementation stage as the Government procedures were very rigid and the implementing agencies
did not have the flexibility to modify the original plans and estimate.
The commitment of the implementing agencies was high. Top priority was given to this
Project. However, the association of other Government departments and agencies with the project
was weak though it received a little more attention than other schemes as it was extemally aided
scheme.
Considering the authority and powers implementing agencies had, their overall performance
of the project implementation can be proudly said to be highly satisfactory.1 Most States achieved
physical targets. Some of them have exceeded the targets. However, perfonnance of some of the
States had not been filly satisfactory. The performance of other government departments was by and
large deficient. Having authority but no responsibility for project implementation and lack of
association with the project could be a major reason for deficient performance of other government
departments. Implementation during the initial years had been slow.
The strong commitment of borrower towards improvement of vocational training system
in India has been reflected in following initiatives taken by it. These initiatives far exceeded
expectations about benefits from implementation of this Project.
' Setting up of Institute Managing Committees under the Chairmanship of Industry's
representative in ITIs and expanding the scope of Industry Institute interaction to virtually
all spheres of activities in MTIs goes much beyond the anticipated scope of the institute
industry cooperation proposed in the Project.
O  Proposal to set up skill developmentfund
' New policy framework for NM7E is aimed at thoroughly transforming the system into a
highly dynamic system. The draft paper on 'National Vocational Training Policy' has been
highly appreciated by all the stakeholders and the World Bank
The borrower generally complied with major loan covenants/commitments.   The
implementing agencies also complied with the requirements of various supervising agencies.



Borrower's ICR for Vocational Training Project (VT?)                       Page 10 of 10
8 Project operation plan
The Central and State Governments are highly committed to complete the Project implementation,
sustain gains of the Project, continue to run the programs started under the project, improve
institution/management effectiveness, develop policy framework and improve institute-industry
interaction. The respective governments have assured the necessary plan outlays and budget provisions.
Central Government would also be providing assistance to the State Governments under IXth Five Year
Plan. Further, efforts are being made to make NVTS self-sustainable. Detailed Project Operation Plan has
already been shared with the IDA and is available with DGET.
However, it would take time for these efforts to materialize. The capacity of Governments to
provide funds for further upgradation of infrastructure by capital investment or even for training of staff is
very limited. The system would require further financial and technical assistance for the development of
National Policy on Vocational Training, Strengthening of Institute-Industry interaction, training of trainers,
Hitech training, Strengthening of planning & management capabilities including MIS and women training.
Therefore a follow-on project covering the above-mentioned areas is highly desirable. The Banh
may continue monitoring of the project operation. The monitoring may be done once in a year. The
evaluation of the impact of the project by OED may be done after two years of project closing date (in 2001)
9 Key lessons learnt
lThe project preparation and design needs to be improved. Means, authority and powers needec
to achieve the objectives should be clearly specified. The project estimates should be more
realistic and should incorporate physical and price contingencies.
a   One project should consist of only those schemes aimed at achieving a common objective rather
than clubbing too many schemes and thereby making the project complex.
tar  Suitable incentives for the staff should be incorporated into the design of the project.
NCVT does not have sufficient organizational set up to inspect, monitor, evaluate and control
programs and institutions recognized by it. The improvement in quality and efficiency of Basic
craftsmen and Apprenticeship training schemes or any other scheme can not be achieved
without an effective system to monitor, evaluate and control the programs.
tr  The Project Management Units should be empowered to implement the project within the broad
guidelines provided in the approved project. The unit should have autonomy and powers to take
decisions without referring to higher authorities in Government or to IFD. These should have
flexibility to make minor amendments.
ar  Decentralize the powers to the States and further to the institutions as far as possible.
r  Improve the management effectiveness of implementing units by development of extensive
computerized management information system and use of modern Project management tools.
is-  Frequent changes in project implementations staff should be avoided.
Before the project commences, project implementation units should be made fully functional
having well trained staff and modem office equipment.
The World Bank's rules, regulations and procedures should also be flexible and take into
consideration borrower's environment which are bound to vary from country to country. Bank's
strategies should aim at achieving those development objectives for which loan has been
provided and how best those can be achieved.
C:\ashwanimpact_VTP\lCR report\1CR_mainrcpor_WB.doc



VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT                                                                         Anx-.pa  -
____________________    ________________  _________                     STATUS OF PROJECT SCHEMES IN STATESIUTs                                                    (Date of Updation 16/4/99)
S3..  State/UTWl*fl&t0  ZqUiPaesit                                      k.V.AiNow1e  Trade                     ~ Basic Trg.    Relae    nt                 VS        New WIT!              Nowv Trades
lb.                                5ds~~~~~~~~~Mintenance                          Courses                 Contre       m iotion Contrea                                        in WITZ               npo
-    ___________  T  ~~~~~K-        'I ~A                 T       A         T             A           T       A       T        A        T ~    IK A            IAT
I. Asadhra Wwadesh             27       27    1  ,6    1  *6            24      24   13  (23  )13  (23               I       1        2        2       6       6     13      13    8  (15  ) 8  (15  )            6
2  Azunaakhal Pradesh           1        1                                1      1
3  Assaa                        9        9    1,3          1,3          10      10    6(10)6(7)                                       1        1-                     3       3    2(6)2(4)                       I
4  iazha                       29       29    1,5          1,5          30      30   15(30)15(30)                                     2        2       1       1      8       8    2(4)2(4)                       0
6 Gujarat                      18       18    1,7          1,7          18      18    9(15)    9(15)                 11               4         4      3       3      4       4    2(4)2(4)                        0
7  azyan                       1 7      17    1,8          1,8          1 7     17    9(17)    9(17)                 11               2        2       4       2      5       5    8(13)    8(13)                 0
SUjiacehaa                      9        9  1,4   1,4    7    7  5(9)5 9)                                                                                                          4(8)4(8)    2
5.765                           7        7  1,2   1,1                     7    7  4(8)4(8)                                            1         1                                                                  4
1@0Kazmatalta                   201    20    1,3            1,31  13             13    7(14)    7(14)                  1      1        2         21   1         1     10      10    4(4)4(4)                        4
It X.aala                       1 5      15    I,4          1,4           19     19    7(14)    7(14)                  1      1         3        3       1      1       5      5    3(    6).3            6)        4
12  Madha  ftsdaa               21       21    1  ,9    1I         9      21     21   11  (22  )11  (22  )2                                      2       1      1     10      10    5  (10  )  5         10  )      5
13 MIMhasbtza                   32       32    1,13    1,13               38     3816(31)16(31)                        1      1         4        4       8      8       9      9    6(12)    6(12)                 10
l.4 Maaipu                       I        1                                1       1    1(2)1(2)                                       1         11
is )Ngha1aya                     3        3                                3      3    1(2)1(2)
17  )iegaland  1        1                              ~~      ~~~~~~~~~0  0
18  Orissa                      11       11    1  ,2    1  ,2             11     11    6  (11  )6  (11                 I       1        1        I       1      1       6       6    2  (4  )2  (4  )               3
lslPunjab                       29       29    1,7          1  ,7         32      32  18(30          18(30)            1       1        2        2       1      1       5       5    5(10)    5(10)                 0
20 Rajasthan                    21       21    1,3          1,3           15      15  10(20)10(20)                     1       1        1        1       2      2       4       4    1 (3)1(3)                      0
21.  TaIl Nadua                 31       31    1  ,6    1  ,6             38      38   16  (25  )16  (25  )            2       2        4        4       1      1       5       5
22 !ipuza                        1         1                               1    1  1(2)1(2)                                                                                          1(2)1(2                        1
23  Uttar pradash               43       43    1  ,12    1  ,10           50      50   36  (64  )36  (64  )            4       4        4        4       2      1       9      9    8  (13  ) 8  (13
24  eat Bengal                  18       18    1,4          1     0       17      17    9(17)    8(14)                 I       1        1        1                      4       4    2(4)2(3)                      _
25 Chandigsxli                   I         1                               1       1     1(2)1(2)                                                                                                                  _
26  Deasa and Diii                                                                      1 I    2      I        2
27 DeLbi                        10       10    1,1          1,1           10      10    2 (4)2(4)                      1       1        1        1       1      11                           2     1     2        _
23  Poudiaherky                  1         1                               1       1
Total                     378      378   19 ,100   19 ,93    387    38725(7 ) 204 (370 )                         17 f 17         38        38      3      30     10[ 0]64(2 )64(171                            1
-    ________________     ITl   Is       N      i    W     ITI   ITls  s  IT    I   Cus)ICour      ouse)-____-_I                                        -     Ils........re)  tICures  Ils
NOTES       1.T   Ta lrget     A - Achievement                                                              (Highlighted figure Indicates that tar-gets-have not been achieved)
2. Figures under equipment maintenance represent state level workshops .ITICells
3. Figures under now trades represent No. of ITIs and N4o. of courses (in brackets)                      A-i



A-2
VOCATIONAL TRAINING FPROJECT                       Annex - I, page A-2
PROGRESS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS IN STATES/ UTs
(Date of Updation 1614/99)
St.   State/UT           Staff Training  Training A. V. Staff Pasts   Civi Works   Schemes ITIs
iT~ ~A  T     A~jSanct-I Filled Total Completed' Total' ~ Total
T1   oned lby'           + in       Number  Numbe
& UTs                               __
Andhra Pradesh     ~269                     State2373 33  Progres
1AnhraPraesh     283           43I9          7     36     4    ~]i              1       5
2 ArunachaliPradesh       2    1 1    16    16                                        2        1
3ASS=m                   90   120   144   113   139   125    12  12 +  0             10       13
4 Bihakr                215    90   300   291   259   153    26,  19 +7   7          11       40
ZPo&                     25    25    16    26    22    20         2    2 +0            4       3
6 Gujarat               350   360   525   593   206   201    24   24 +  0            11       22
~7 Haryana              188   128 1272   281   225   164    19  19 +  0               11      22
8 HirachaoiPadesh        93    84   144   188    34    34         9    9 +  0         7       15
9J&K                     51    60   112    99    53    53         3    3 +   0        7        8
10,ja0atalka             179   249   320   334   299   260    26   26 +  0            11       30
IlKerata          ~~~164   185   368   286   212   206    21  21 +0             11       29
12 MvadhyaPradesh       227   227   336   342   353,  353    30   30 +  0             10       31
13 Maharaslitra          350   349   608   618   423   423    44  44 +  0             1 1      62
14 Manipu                  8    16    24    24       6      6      2    2 +0           6        I
ls Mehalaya:              10     3    30    30       4      4                          3        4
16 Mizoram                 2     8    16    12                                         2        1
: 1Na  lad2                        0      0     01                                                1
IS drissa        ~~~127   167   250   267   208   165    17  17 +0              11      2
.19 Punja                20      78 48   450   278   260    24  24 +  0                11      40
~20 Rajasthan:           146   166   336   380   143   143    20  20 +  0              10      26
21 jtamlltadu            235   258   350   380   258   257    29   29 +  0             9       38
22 Tripura                 8      8    16    16      6      5      1    1 +0           5        1
~-23 Uttar Pradesh        274   451   360   398   508   412    62  62 +  0              11i     61
24 WestBSengal           130   151   352   324   178   118    16   1 6 +  0           10       23
25 Chandfgarh              8      8    16    16      6      6                          4        1
26D1aman and Diu           6      9     0      0     6      6      1   1 +0             1       1
2.7 Delhi.--      ~74  103   200   230    48    46          6   6 +0             9       10
28 P5ondlcherry            2      1    16    16                                        2        1
Total.            3499 13784 16007 J6222  4246  3756   438 43   ~7               11      565
NOTES       1 The highlighted figure indicates that the targets have not been archeived
2 Staff posts include key additional staff and support staff
3 Centrally sponsored schemnes (expenditure is shared by GOI and the Slates)
-casnb"np_A)1p% rpoMlCRWSAjvu4b-



Annex- I1: Lratt National Policy on Vocational Iraining                                                Page A -3
ANNEX- 1l: DRAFT NATIONAL POLICY ON VOCATIONAL TRAINING
1.  INTRODUCTION .....................................................4
2.  NATIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM  (NVTS) IN INDIA ........................................ . 5
2.1.   SCHEMES UNDER NVTS ......................................................5
2.2.   STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES OF NVTS ......................................................5
2.2.1.   Strengths ......................................................5
2.2.2.    Weaknesses ......................................................6
3.  INFLUENCE OF EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT ................................................ .     .       7
3.1.   GLOBALISATION ......................................................7
3.2.   INFORMATION AGE ......................................................8
4.  POLICIES FOR REORIENTING THE NVTS ....................................................8
5.  MISSION STATEMENT ...................................................8
6.  OBJECTIVES ....................................................8
7.  KEY SHIFTS IN EMPHASIS ENVISAGED IN NVTS ...................................................     10
8.  THRUST AREAS ....................................................                               11
9.  PROPOSED POLICIES ....................................................                          12
9.1. SCOPE ...................                                                                   12
9.2. EQuITy CONSIDERATIONS                     ..12
9.3. MANAGEMENT AND ORGANISATION STRUCTURE .13
9.4. FINANCING    ..13
9.5. TYPES OF TRAINiNG PROGRAMMES                    ..14
9.5.1.   Pre-service training .............................................................    14
9.5.1.1.    Formal Training ..................................................................... .  14
9.5.1.2.    Non-formal training ....................................................................  14
9.5.2.    Continuous and in-service training for upgradation of skills of existing workers .............. 14
9.5.3.   Retraining of Retrenched/Separated Workers .............................................................     14
9.5.4.    Training and development of trainers and other staff ........................................................ 14
9.5.5.   Distance Education .............................................................      14
9.6. CURRICULUM                             . . .15
9.7. TESTING OF COMPETENCIES                         .          .          .15
9.8. HUMAN RESOURCES                                         . . . 15
9.9. RESEARCH, MONITORING AND EVALUATION                        . . .16
9.10. INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION                          .        .         .16
9.11. ENHANCING THE STATUS OF VT                         . . .16
9.12.  ROLES AND REspoNsIBILrTiEs OF VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS    ...16
9.12.1. Central Government .                                                                   16
9.12.2. State Governments: .17
9.12.3. Employers .                                                                            17
9.12.4. Private proprietary training institutions .                                            17
9.12.5. DGETinstitu es.                                                                        17
9.12.6.  Employees.                                                                            I 
9.12.7.  Trainers.1                                                                             7
9.12.8. State Government Institutions .18
9.12.9.  Other Central Ministries/Organisations dealing with Vocational Training .18
10. COMPOSITION OF EXPERT COMMITTEE                             .        .       .............................. 19



Annex- il: D)ratt National Policy on Vocational Ilraining                       Page A - 4
National Policy on Vocational Training
A Dynamic Indian National Vocational Training System (NVTS)
i. INTRODUCTION
India is second most populous country in the World. With a population of about
100 crores, human resource development plays an important role in the national
economic development. Most of the developed countries and many developing
countries, and particularly those striving for a more competitive market for their goods
and services, are giving enhanced focus to the technical and vocational education and
training (TVET). The stimulus for this enhancement stems from a number of sources:
The rapid internationalisation of the world economy;
The increased emphasis on competition and the development of global markets;
: The need for increased quality in goods and services, if enterprises are to be competitive;
: The changing role of governments as they move away from providing services directly in
order to concentrate on policy and regulation in areas prone to market failures;
i The increased emphasis on cost of high value added, high skill training borne by beneficiary
and user industry.
There have been many successful examples of countries, which are poor in natural
resources and have relied on the enhancement of human resources to develop the nation.
Japan is a good example in this regard.
The increasing pace of globalization and technological change provides both challenges
and growing opportunities for economic expansion and job creation. In taking advantage of
these opportunities as well as in minimizing the social costs and dislocation, which the
transition to a more open economy entails, the level and quality of skills that a nation
possesses are becoming critical factors. The choice between taking the "low road" in terms
of competing through lowering wages and social benefits and the preferable alternative of
taking the "high road" of raising labour productivity and incomes will require flexible and
responsive training systems and greater investment in skill development. Countries with
higher and better levels of skills adjust more effectively to the challenges and opportunities
of globalization. The skill level and quality of the workforce will thus increasingly provide
the cutting edge in successfully competing in the global economy. Strengthening the
infrastructure for vocational skill training and replacing skills, which have become
obsolescent by new skills should be one of the primary approaches for generation of
employment.[World Employment Report 1998-99, ILO]
Any strategy to build a competitive and high-skilled workforce in today's economy
requires careful attention to ensuring the access of women to education and training
opportunities. Globalization and new work technologies and work organisation have greatly
altered women's labour market status in recent years, in ways that both increase their need
for skills and present obstacles to their acquiring new skills [World Employment Report
1998-99, ILO]. In India, at the end of the 31' March 1997, out of a total of 27.9 million
employment in the organised sector about 4.6 million were women, Which is around 16.4%.
More than 50% of the women were employed in community, social and personnel services
industry. NSSO survey in 1993-94 shows that about 93.7% and 88.8% women labour force



Annex- If: Vratt National Policy on Vocational I raining                        Page A - 5
in rural and urban areas respectively did not possess any vocational skill. There is a
requirement of encouraging more women for the Vocational Skill Training.
Vocational Training (VT) is an important and essential input for human resource
development. VT. is concerned with the imparting and acquisition of technical skills,
knowledge and attitudes immediately before, during or between periods of work. It
includes pre-service training, apprenticeship, in-service training, upgrading in vocational
training centres and retraining for new occupations. Vocational training can thus be
distinguished from the vocational education. While vocational training attaches importance
to imparting job-related skills and knowledge, vocational education gives priority to basic
knowledge and general understanding.
2. NATIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM (NVTS) in INDIA
The primary objective of the NVTS in India is to meet the skilled workforce needs of
the Industry. According to the Constitution of India, vocational training is a concurrent
subject matter, implying that the Central Government and the State Governments share
responsibility for Vocational Training. At the national level, the Directorate General of
Employment & Training (D.G.E.& T.), Ministry of Labour is the nodal department for
formulating policies, laying down standards, etc. in the field of Vocational Training. It also
operates a number of training related institutions. At State levels, the State Government
Departments responsible for vocational training participate and also operate training centres.
Two tripartite bodies, viz. The Central tpprenticeship Council (CAC) - a statutory
body and the National Council of Vocational Training (NCVT) advise the Governnent on
formulation of policies and procedures, and prescribing of standards and norms in respect of
the Vocational Training schemes.  Corresponding State Councils advise the State
Governments in respect of Vocational Training at the State level.
2.1. SCHEMES UNDER NVTS
The National Vocational Training System (NVTS) in India with DGET being the
Apex Administrative body comprises of the following main training sub-systems.
(a) Craftsmen Training Scheme (CTS)
(b) Apprenticeship Training Scheme (ATS)
(c) Training Schemes including entrepreneurship training specifically targeting women.
(d) Craft Instructors' Training Scheme (CITS)
(e) Advanced Vocational Training Scheme (AVTS) and Hitech Training
(f) SupervisoryfForemen Training Scheme
(g) Staff Training and Research Programme
(h) Instructional Media Development Programrnme
2.2. STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES of NVTS
2.2.1. Strenz'ths
NVTS has made rapid progress and has been the primary source of skilled manpower
to industry. It has made a place for itself which is well recognised nationally and to
some extent intemationally as well. The strengths of NVTS are:



Annex- l:L ratt National Policy on Vocational Iraining                          Page A -6
    the system's regular and increasing contribution to the stock of skilled manpower
    the efforts to meet emerging requirements and introduce new schemes and programmes
    the uniforn curriculum, procedures, regulations, national coverage and creditability of
the system, which ensures mobility of labour.
    The system 's international recognition
    A good structure having combination of institutional and Apprenticeship training
    Involvement of private sector and NGOs in setting up training institutions.
    Infrastructure available for providing skill training at varying levels.
2.2.2. Weaknesses
The effectiveness and efficiency of the system is low.
C    There is mismatch between skills requirement of the world of work and skills
produced by NVTS.
    The unemployment rate of VT graduates is high.
0    The resources are not being used optimally in producing skilled workforce.
Some of the causes for these weaknesses are:
The emphasis had been on quantitative rather than qualitative aspects. There has
been very fast growth in number of ITIs, particularly Private ITIs. Infrastructure
for monitoring, evaluating and controlling the quality of training in ITIs by
NCVT is highly inadequate. Many of the State Councils for Vocational Training
are not functional.
' The system caters mainly to the needs of the organised sector, which represents
less than 10 % of the total workforce. The requirements of modem high-tech
industries and services sectors as well as those of unorganised sector are not
properly taken care of. The manufacturing sector component of organised
sector, from which most of the trades have been identified, is shrinking in terms
of employment, calling for a shift in emphasis. Further, the system mainly
prepares the workforce for wage employment. The component of training for
entrepreneurship is not adequate and the linkages are conspicuous by their
absence.
t Lack of well defined policy framework. The system is highly centralised. Some
of the recommendations of NCVT remain unimplemented because it is non-
statutory advisory body only. The councils do not have their own secretariat.
t Officers lack motivation and use of modem management techniques. There is
no scheme for systematic training and development of officers. Quality of
trainers need to be upgraded at regular intervals by appropriate interventions.
r  There is shortage of budget provisions for raw material, consumables and
maintenance in most of the ITIs. Salaries consume about 90% of operating
costs.



Annex- II: Dralt National Policy on Vocational _Iraining                     Page A - 7
v  Curriculum are basically designed for teaching technical skills and do not take
care of key qualifications or core competencies, which employers treat as one of
the most important characteristics. Revision of curriculum takes a very long
time.
9F Most of ITIs are continuing to offer unpopular trades to students.
Training programmes being standardised on a national basis lack the desired
flexibility to meet regional and local needs.
c As trade tests are conducted centrally from the DGE&T(HQs), sometimes there
is a lack of proper monitoring and control resulting in lack of objectivity.
c Inadequacy of skilled manpower information system. There is no systematic
collection, processing, and analysis of data.
' The involvement and participation of industry in training in ITIs is not
satisfactory. This is a major cause for low external effectiveness of training
programmes.  Pre-employment vocational training is perceived to be a
responsibility of the government.  Industry is reluctant to increase their
commitment beyond what is presently envisaged under apprenticeship training.
This situation contrasts with the attitudes of Industry and Trade in countries,
which have recorded appreciable growth in economic development.
The Apprenticeship training, which by its concept is more relevant due to
involvement of industry, is seen as:
an imposition by employers
' cheap labour by workers' organisations.
' temporary employment by apprentices.
3. INFLUENCE OF EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
3.1. GLOBALISATION
With the Globalisation, liberalisation and entry of multi national companies, the
industrial sector has taken a new shape. The emphasis is more on:
I. Conforming to international quality standards
2. Lower cost of production
3. Dependence on micro-processor controlled machines
4. Forward and Backward integration
5. Close monitoring and control
6. Emergence of new trades and competencies
Besides the employment growth in the organised sector is on the decline. Major
growth has shifted to unorganised, service and rural non-farming sector. Vocational
training thus needs reorientation so as to meet the requirements of the changing
scenario.



Annex- 11:Dralt National Policy on Vocational [raining                    Page A - 8
3.2. INFORMATION AGE
The advent of the information age has important implication for NVTS.
> First, NVTS programmes for young people to acquire the skills necessary to earn a
living need to be upgraded from secondary to higher secondary education level for
occupations in hitech areas.
' Second, life-long learning may be made an integral part of skill development
programmes to cope with rapid changes in economy.
> Third, with technological advances in information and communications systems, it is
necessary to alter our conventional concepts of classrooms, teaching-learning
methods, curricula, and administrative aspects of NVTS. There is need also to use
multi-media information technology in the management of NVTS systems, contents
and teaching-learning methods.
Fourth, information age implies that repetitive single skills will face depression in
real wages, as areas where labour is cheap in these areas are very quickly identified.
Multiskilling will therefore need more emphasis.
4. Policies for reorienting the NVTS
To meet the challenges posed by the rapid changes in the socio-economic
environment, the NVTS must prepare to change now and rapidly develop the ability to
be sensitive to change and become flexible and proactive. Mission, Objectives and
Policies for reorienting the NVTS are proposed below:
5. Mission Statement
To help faster social and economic development of India by efficiently
producing qualified and competent workforce, which is flexible and responsive
to the needs of dynamic labour market (World of work), with close cooperation
of all the stakeholders, while taking sufficient care of equity considerations
including gender.
To improve the standard of living of workforce by providing relevant and high
quality training resulting in value addition and improvement of their
employability and real eaniings.
6. Objectives
1. To produce qualified skilled workers efficiently with the required levels of
competencies as needed by the dynamic world of work covering both organised as
well as unorganised sectors of economy; to take cognisance of shift from



Annex- II: Dratt National Policy on Vocational Iraining                           Page A -9
manufacturing to services sector and to strengthen inputs on entrepreneurial and
behavioural skills.
2. To improve participation of women, disabled and other disadvantaged groups in
vocational training by holistically addressing problems of access to training, to
employment opportunities including self employment, difficulties in workplace, so
as to assist in their empowerment.
3. To provide facilities for life long learning and upgradation of skills through a variety
of flexible methods to suit individual's requirements and changing technology.
4. To device a system to assess prior learning and work experience and dovetail it with
training process.
5. To ensure availability of adequate instructional media as also qualified trainers,
planners and managers in NVTS
6. To share the responsibilities for producing qualified workers with various
stakeholders, in particular with employers and private providers of training. To
strengthen linkages and cooperation among various learning places and the world of
work.
7. A training system with multiple entry/exit points and flexible delivery.
8. To enable each vocational training institution the freedom to strengthen its activities
and grant adequate autonomy to function effectively. Develop training institutions
according to the needs of the local region and situation of the institution to help
trainees choose courses as per their abilities and interests.
9. To encourage international cooperation in the field of vocational training.
10. To ensure a sustainable funding mechanism to maintain and upgrade the training
infrastructure.
11. To strengthen the research, planning, monitoring, evaluation and managing
capabilities. To have proactive training policy to anticipate the future needs and
suitably adapt the system to meet them.
The NVTS should be:
' Relevant
> Efficient
' Accessible
Cooperative and Consensual
High Quality



Annex- ii: Urat National Policy on Vocational I raining                          Page A- 10
7. Key Shifts in emphasis envisaged in NVTS
(S.N            EXISTING                     FUTURE PRESPECTIVE
_~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.   O A supply-driven system on a, A  demand-driven system  guided by labour o
}   large social demand.     , market signals. However, it would take care of '
equity and gender issues.                  t
2.   0 NVTS focused on the limited j Focus would be on covering wide range of
% occupations in formal sector.  occupations both under formal and non-formal
'4                            sectors. A proactive policy to meet the needs
4'    of new  emerging occupations and tertiary 'if
Prgamsector. r
3.    Pro             tricted  for High value added vocational training will 0
% students completing at least 8  require at least eight years of good general ?
4   years of general education  education.  With spread of education, and f4
4      4
sustained  HRD,  it  may  be  increased :
progressively  to  higher  secondary  level -
education. However, from  the  short and
i  medium  term  perspective to augment rural:
*10
develdpment, non-formal, flexible and need-
7  based vocational programmes will also be >
X  made available to neoliterates, school drop- :
1      4i                          'outs from  various stages, unemployed or S
' partially  employed  persons.    Vocational
0,    01                           ol training programmes will also have to be
,                            O;-. devised for women's empowerment.
4 /O
? 4.    Focus on pre-service training  Focus both on pre-service and in service '
0      0                             training. Emphasis would also be on providing
4      '                             facilities for life-long  learning  through  a:
4      4
',    0                               variety of flexible methods to suit individual's '
f  needs. Training and development of trainers,
0      O,                             planners and managers would be a key thrust 0
0      '                              area.                                      j
4 .,s,s>a.', .,,,.,.,.,./,^s,,,,,,,,.,,,.,.,.,,,,,, ---- 4- ,,,,,, _ __. _,_____.._,
l 5.    No official recognition of A  system  which rationally recognizes skills $
prior learning               and 'competencies' wherever and however,
4r                                 i a s4s   .smnsnns  ssss~nthey are obtained.  O..
'4  ..                      ....
6.    Minimal access to products  Products of vocational training courses will be '
i      '4of the vocational taining  given opportunities for professional growth, ,
I      % stream  for higher technical  career improvement and lateral entry into '
0
and professional education.  I courses of general, technical and professional
*                                   , education through appropriate bridge courses. o
7.     The   system   is  highly  The system would be decentralised and made '



Annex- I: Vratt National aolicy on Vocational [raining                        Page A - 11
S.N. |EXISTING                  llFUTURE PRESPECTIVE
centralised. The management; accountable to users. The responsibilities for
E     4and financing of the system a management and financing of the system
is    predominantly     a 0 would be shared with all the stakeholders.  3
0  government responsibility.  '                                      0
i 8.   # Inadequate interaction and ' Good interaction and coordination between,
0.    0 coordination      between providers of Institution based basic training
providers of Institution based ' and Apprenticeship  training. One council
;   basic  training    and ' having regional setup would control all types
i     0 Apprenticeship    training. : of programmes.                         0
00,   ol Separate councils for CTS, ;
,.andATS.
9.   8 A training system delivering g A training system delivering 'competencies' in
i 'certificates'       after line with nationally recognized standards.
t   examination.   Focus   of: Focus of curriculum would be on developing
!   curriculum   has  been  on technical,   methodological   and   social o
I'    4imparting technical skills  competencies  aimed  at providing  broad
4
E                                 ; qualifications.
# 10.   A   training  system   with o A  training system  with multiple entry/exit f
minimum    flexibility  in points' and flexible delivery employing new'
delivery                  $ modern training technologies.
11.   Low priority to employment Recognise employment and higher earnings $
s   aspects                - both in wage and self employment as a key
3~rn.12  5sm'wim n   parameter of success of training.
0 12.  Low     allocations    for 0 With the promulgation of PWD Act, need for
programmes for People with % higher allocation and coordination of activities i
Disabilities              $ with other ministries.
8. THRUST AREAS
1. Sharing of responsibilities for management and financing with all stake holders;
2. Strengthening of linkages between ITIs and the local Industrial units;
3. Autonomy to training authorities; Decentralization and accountability to users;
4. Training and development of trainers, planners and managers associated with
Vocational Training. Career advancement and compensation packages with the
best in Industry so as to attract & retain good qualified and experienced persons
from industry.
5. Life-long learning and continuous upgradation of skills;



Annex- If: ratt National Policy on Vocational Irainmg                            Page A - 12
6.  Meeting demand for qualified skilled workforce for the new emerging areas
including services sector;
7.  Reorienting the focus of the curriculum  so as to give emphasis on the
development of key qualifications or core competencies and development of
entrepreneurship;
8.  Modularization of training programmes and multiskilling;
9.  Strengthening of research, planning, monitoring, evaluation and managing
capabilities;
10. Adoption of new modem training technologies including multi-media;
11. Evaluation of competencies in a fair manner and recognition of prior learning;
12. Restructuring of Management and Organisation structures at all levels.
13. Providing professional growth opportunities to the products of VT and
improving the image of Vocational Training;
14. Focus on improving opportunities for women, disabled and other disadvantaged
groups in vocational training and in the work place;
15. Synergise vocational training programmes with other ministries and employers
and NGOs.
16. An effective vocational guidance and councelling system.
17. Strength of VT is practical hands on training that distinguishes it from general
education. This strength will have to be sustained.
9. Proposed policies
9.1. SCOPE
*:  Skilled workforce requirement of both organised and unorganised sectors of economy
would be met through suitably designed training programmes. However, emphasis
would be on quality.
* Focus would be to identify and meet the needs of new emerging occupations and that
of tertiary sector.
4*  A pro-active policy would be adopted to dynamically link the production of skilled
workforce to the world of work.
9.2. EQUITY CONSIDERATIONS
4* Adequate participation of women, disabled and other disadvantaged groups in
vocational training by holistically addressing problems of access to training, to
employment opportunities including self employment, difficulties in workplace, so as
to assist in their empowerment



Annex- 11: L)ratt National Policy on Vocational 'Iaining                           Page A - 13
* Suitable non-formal, flexible and need-based programmes and special institutions will
be started for the disadvantaged groups. These groups will be encouraged to join
programmes through various incentives.
9.3. MANAGEMENT AND ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
*   The NVTS should be autonomous, sufficiently decentralised and accountable to
users. The pattern of restructuring of NVTS envisaging the reorganisation of
present system as follows:
r  Formation of an autonomous and statutory apex body in place of existing
NCVT and CAC, which would have representatives of Central government
ministries/departments, State governments, employers associations, trade
unions, NGOs, experts etc. Research, Policy planning, standards settings, co-
ordination and evaluation of all types of formal and non-formal vocational training
programmes would be its major responsibilities.  Devolution of operational
responsibility to state level councils and further to local level bodies and
institute/company level. Within the broad policy guidelines fixed by national level
apex body, greater role may be given to the employers for operationalisation of
vocational training system so that training programmes meet labour market
requirements.
Close industry- institute interaction. Direct participation of employers and other
groups in the management of Institutions.
Big companies may have their own basic training centres/ takeover control of an
ITI. Small and medium enterprises may pool resources to operate Basic Training
Centres/ITIs. ITIs may be managed by a board in which industry has 50% stake.
> Private initiative in starting ITIs may be encouraged but with rigorous quality
control.
9.4. FINANCING
* Progressively shift the responsibility for funding of the programmes from Government
to users (mainly employers). Ultimately, fresh Government funding may be restricted
to institutions for people with disabilities, Institutions in North East, and in hilly! tribal
areas and programmes for women groups; and provision of scholarships, and for
undertaling research and development activities.  The accountability to users
(employers, employees, trainees etc.) can be ensured if they are bearing the cost of the
training. This will ensure that users take genuine interest in the operation and
management of training institutes. Hence, diversification of sources of financing has
been suggested.
*: Levy on companies (Skill Development Fund) either by governnent or Industry-Trade
bodies to be a major source of funds for sustaining the system.
*: Generation of revenue by ITIs may be encouraged by undertaking activities, which
help in improving the skills of trainees and staff.
*: Use international and bilateral financing as & when appropriate.



Annex- 11: Vratt National Policy on Vocational Frainng                               Page A - 14
9.5. TYPES OF TRAINING PROGRAMMES
9.5.1. Pre-service traininz
9.5.1.1.   Formal Training
*: The broad-based basic training would be conducted in a vocational training centre
followed by specialized on-the-job training as part of Apprenticeship training in the
actual work environment.
*: The scope of apprenticeship training would be enlarged by covering more occupation
in emerging high-tech training areas, service sector and informal sector.
9.5.1.2.   Non-formal training
*   The non-formal training would be aimed at school dropouts, neoliterates and people
with disabilities. It would be mainly on-the-job training, which could be supplemented
with training in a training centre.
9.5.2. Continuous and in-service traininz for up-radation of skills of existing
workers
3   The facilities for life-long learning through a variety of flexible methods would be
provided to suit individual needs. This may include short and long-term formal and
non-formal courses linked to the labour market requirements.
4   Encouragement and incentives would 6e given to the individual for continuously
upgrade their qualifications.
4 Facilitate to upgrade skills to meet new technology requirements.
9.5.3. Retraining of Retrenched/Separated Workers
* One of the consequences of globalisation and increased competition is the
retrenchment/ separation of workers. Due to advanced age and likelihood of lower
qualifications such workers may find it difficult to get back into wage employment.
The strategy primarily in the first instance should be to retrain them for newer skills or
transfer them into allied services sector after reorientation. In either case, retraining
has to be done in a manner that their living standards are at least maintained.
Retraining and redeployment are thus analogous to the rehabilitation process in a
development project.
9.5.4. Training and development of trainers and other stafi
* Training and development of trainers and other staff would be a key thrust area.
* A new nodal institute for performing all functions for instructor training viz., research,
developing norms, curricula, instructional media and training of instructional staff may
be set up.
4* The help of premier institutes in India, expert and international institutions may be
taken for the development of suitable training programmes.
9.5.5. Distance Education
* Distance education programmes may be started.



Annex- 1:1 ratt National Policy on Vocational Iraming                                Page A - 15
9.6. CURRICULUM
The basic training may be broad-based with the emphasis on development of key
qualifications or core competencies for increasing flexibility and to prepare trainees for a
wide range of jobs rather than being too job specific. Progressively encourage training on
modular basis, so as to develop multiskilling.
Flexibity in curriculum so as to take care of local industries needs.
I The training program would also be aimed at self-employment and development of
entrerpreneurship skills.
0 Use of modern learning techniques
0 Trainees during institutional training should be exposed to quality circles, work culture in
industries by arranging industrial visits and on-the-job training.
The primary role and responsibility for curriculum development and revision should be of
concerned associations of employers of that particular industry sector.
The proposed nodal institute for media, curriculum and trade test development (which is to
be set up by restructuring CIMI) shall co-ordinate the curriculum development activities.
9.7. TESTING OF COMPETENCIES
The examination system should ensure that the performance and competence of the
trainees are effectively measured.
Competencies testing programmes for certifying different levels of competencies in
different sectors may be started. This will also help assessment of prior learning and work
experience of workers without formal qualifications.
National  Trade  Testing  and  Certification  Authority  may  be  set  up  by
restructuring/converting present trade testing cell at DGET Hdqrs., which will work in
coordination with the proposed Nodal Institute for the curricula, media and trade test
development.
Trade Testing and Certification may be progressively decentralised. However, recognition
of qualifications at the national level should be ensured.
9.8. HUMAN RESOURCES
Ensuring qualified teachers, planners, managers and other staff in the NVTS by prescribing
suitable qualification norms, compensation packages, career growth opportunities and by
providing training and development opportunities.
0 Fast track career advancement for trainers would be linked to achieving higher professional
qualifications, employment level of trainees, and for publications in relevant fields in
reputed national / intemational joumals, as also in performance in international and national
level skill competitions.
National awards to outstanding trainers and other staff assciated with VT.



Annex-11: Dratt National Policy on Vocational I raining                          Page A - 16
9.9. RESEARCH, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
The research planning monitoring and managing capabilities and facilities would
be strengthened.
The proposed nodal institute for Staff Training, Research and Central Information &
Documentation Services by restructuring the CSTARI, Calcutta would take up
research work on Vocational Training.
Close co-operation and regular exchange of information with international organisations
and other countries.
0 Research work in the field of vocational training in premier universities and other
educational institutions may be encouraged.
The planning, monitoring, evaluation and management capabilities at the Central and
State levels would be strengthened by development of appropriate resources and
organisation structure.
9.10.     INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION
0 The co-operation and exchange of information would be strengthened with
international agencies and other countries. The cooperation would be extended
in a wide range of activities such as research, curriculum development, use of
modem training technologies, development of instructional media, testing of
competencies, training of staff and retraining of workers etc.
9.11.     ENHANCING THE STATUS OF VT
" The status of vocational training in the society would be enhanced .by way of
providing better employment opportunities, lifetime earning resulting in better
standard of living.
> National awards to the outstanding craftsmen, teachers and other staff associated
with Vocational Training.
> Accessibility to enter higher general, technical and professional education and
recognising and giving credits for the competencies possessed by VT graduates
by higher education institutions.
9.12.     ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS
9.12.1. Central Government:
Central Government would provide policy framework and legislation necessary for the
development of NVTS in consultation with all the major stakeholders;
To enforce the provisions of legislation through appropriate agencies;
To provide necessary autonomy to the various authorities and agencies
To channalise intemational cooperation in vocational training through DGE&T.
To provide awards and recognition to the companies in order to encourage them to train and
re-train their present and future workforce.
To provide special facilities and support for the training of women; assist state governments
in border states with difficult terrains, in basic vocational training.
To provide suitable incentives and tax exemptions for encouraging development of training
infrastructure facilities and research.
To undertake research and development activities in the field of Vocational Training.



Annex- 1 L)ratt National Policy on Vocational Iraining                             Page A - 17
9.12.2. State Governments:
0 State Governments would have many functions similar to those Central Government. Their
role would be more important in respect of implementation of the programmes.
0 State Governments to be encouraged to set up their own Institutes for training of trainers in
consultation with DGE&T.
9.12.3. Employers
0 Employers would be major stakeholders and partner in the NVTS. They would participate
in the planning, organising, implementing and monitoring of the system. They would
actively participate in the various councils, organisations and institutions set up under
NVTS.
They would also progressively bear major part of training costs.
They would work for creation of learning organisation. They would provide the facilities
for the training of future workforce. Big companies may set up their own training centres.
They would establish close linkages with the training institutions and would be a major
partner in the management of training insitutions.
They would participate in the identification of training needs/competencies required and
ways to produce them
They would participate in the testing of the competencies. They would participate in the
estimation of future requirement of skill workforce in various areas.
9.12.4. Private proprietary training institutions
It is possible for them to quickly adapt training programmes as per changing needs of the
world of work. They would be allowed to operate various types of training programmes by
following the prescribed guidelines.
9.12.5. DGET Institutes
DGET  Institutes should act as role models for other institutions and facilitate
implementation of pilot schemes and projects.
The institutes may offer programmes for different levels of participants including persons
deputed by other countries.
Institutes like CIMI, FTI, CSTARI, NVTI and Apex Hi-tech Institute as also Model
Industrial Training Institutes to be developed as autonomous institutes of excellence and
conform to appropriate ISO-9000 series certification requirements.
These institutes would earn revenue through variety of services.
9.12.6. Employees
They would contribute in the development of new training programmes and their
implementation.
Their role would be crucial in on the job training in actual work environment. They would
supervise and guide on the job training of trainees.
I They would involve themselves in the institutional training.
I They would also give importance to upgrading their own competencies.
9.12. 7. Trainers
0 The trainers would contribute in development of training programmes, curricula, instruction
materials and test items. They would keep themselves abreast with the technological



Annex- 1 : Dratt National Policy on Vocational I raining                          Page A - IS
developments in their fields of work. They would strive for achieving higher professional
qualifications and for research/publications relating to VT.
The planners would keep in view all policy guidelines while formulating VT prograrnes,
procedures, standards and norms. They would keep themselves abreast with international
developments in the field of vocational training. They would work in close cooperation
with different stakeholders and other relevant national and international agencies.
The managers would work in close cooperation with different stakeholders. They would
ensure proper implementation of the VT programmes.
9.12.8. State Government Institutions
They would effectively implement VT programmes.
They would maintain close liaison with the employers.
9.12.9. Other Central Ministries/Organisations dealing with Vocational Training
They would work in coordination with the proposed National Council.



Annex-Il:L ratt National Policy on Vocational Iraining                            Page A -19
f ^    '*.   w.  -t V- p  9A   w Z ^.' va  4 ,  
Shri Ajit M. Nimbalkar                                         Chairman
i.      Additional Secretary, Ministry of Labour
2.      Shri S. Krishnan                                                Vice-Chairman
Director General/Joint Secretary, D.G.E.&T.
Industry representatives/ Experts
3.     Shri Hari S. Bhartia                                           Member
Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Vam Organic Chemicals Ltd.
4.      Shri N. Srinivasan                                             Member
Deputy Director General, Confederation of Indian Industry
5.      Shri V.P. Chopra                                               Member
President, Fed. of Assn.of Small Scale Industries of India
6.      Dr. S.K. Somaiya,                                               Member
Chairman, FICCI Education Committee
7.      Shri S.K. Bijlani                                              Member
President, Magnus Engineers Pvt. Ltd.
8.      Shri Sundresh Prasad                                           Member
Managing Trustee, ITC Education Trust
9.      Shri M.D. Mahadevan                                            Member
Manager, Training & Development, Motor Industries Company Ltd.
10.     Shri S.V. Gokhale                                              Member
Divisional Manager - Training, Tata Engineering & Locomotive Co. Ltd.
11.     Shri G.K. Aggarwal                                             Member
Director - HRD, Bharti Telecom Ltd.
Trade Union reDresentatives
12.     Shri Sukhnandan Singh                                          Member
Vice President, Bhariya Mazdoor Sangh
13.     Shri Chandidas Sinha                                           Member
Secretary, Indian National Trade Union Congress
14.     Shri Ardhendu Dakshi,                                          Member
General Secretary, Steel Workers' Federation of India, (Rep. Of CITU)
State Government reDresentatives
15.     Shri A.N. Borah                                               Member
Director of Employment and Craftsmen Training, Government of Assam
16.     Mrs. Sangeeta Singh                                           Member
Director of Employment and Training, Govermnent of Gujarat
17.     Shri M.G. Halappnawar                                         Member
Director of Employment and Training, Government of Karnataka
18.     Shri A.D.Jadav                                                Member
Director Vocational Education & Training, Government of Maharashtra
19.     Shri N.S. Kalsi                                               Member
Director Tech. Edn. & Industrial Trg., Government of Punjab



Annex- 11: ralt National Policy on Vocational I raming                            Page A - 2U
D.G.E.&T./ Central Govt's representatives
20.     Shri G.S. Sethi                                                Member
Director of Training (Project), D.G.E.&T.
21.     Shri S.I. Siddiqui                                               Member
Director of Apprenticeship Training, D.G.E.&T.
22.     Shri V.S. Rao                                                    Member
Director of Training, D.G.E.&T.
23.     Ms. Adarsh Sarvaria                                              Member
Director of Training (Women Occupation), D.G.E.&T.
24.     Shri S.R. Majumdar                                               Member
Director, Central Staff Training & Research Institute
25.     Shri M. Authiappan                                               Member
Director, Central Instructional Media Institute
26.     Shri S.K. Mishra                                                 Member
Additional Apprenticeship Adviser, Dept. of Education, Ministry of HRD
27.     Shri Ashwani Aggarwal                                         Member-Convenor
Deputy Director of Training, D.G.E.&T.
CAashwani\Impact VTP\ICR report\1CRWB-Annexl1.doc



Annex- III: Industry - Institute interaction                               Page A - 21
Annex - II: Industry - Institute Interaction
A good infrastructure and close interaction between ITIs & Industry is essential for high
internal and external effectiveness of training. To improve the infrastructure facilities, the
Vocational Training Project (VTP) is being executed since 1989 with financial assistance from
the World Bank. Steps taken to improve the industry-institute interaction are mentioned below:
1.1 Various steps taken to improve the industry-institute interaction:
Setting up of Institute advisory committees
Signing of Memorandum of Understanding between CII and State Directorates for co-
operating with each other in areas of mutual interest.
Partnership between ITIs and companies
r Assessment of the impact of the Vocational training Project and evaluation of the quality
of training in ITIs jointly by Government and Industry
I nitiation of a new concept ofjoint management of ITIs by Government and Industry
1.2 Brief details of above measures:
1.2.1 Setting up of Institute advisory committees
It has been mandatory for each ITI to have an Institute advisory committee having
representatives of Industry apart from other members. Its main function is to advise the ITI on the
trades and curriculum.
1.2.2  Signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU Lbetween CIIandState Directorates:
Most of the States in Northern and Southern region have signed MoU with CII for co-
operating with each other in areas of mutual interest. Some States (e.g. Punjab, Haryana, H.P.)
have signed MoUs with industries at ITI level also.
1.2.3  Partnership between ITIs and companies: (One to one interaction)
In Maharastra, industry has assessed that the Government ITIs have tremendous potential
to meet the technical manpower requirements of industry, particularly after upgradation of
facilities under the Vocational Training Project. CII member companies have formed partnership
with ITIs. Areas of mutual interest identified and an action plan to implement the plans have been
worked out. Several activities related to training of instructors in industry have already started.
The partners identified were:



Annex- III: Industry - Institute interaction                              Page A - 22
Co- pay                Cmp                           1
Bajaj Auto Ltd., Aurangabad                  111 Aurangabad
Godraj & Boyce Mfg Co. Ltd., Vikhroli        ITI Mulund
Larsen & Toubro Ltd., Powai                  ITI Ambernath
Siemens Ltd., Mumbai                         ITI Mumbai
TELCO, Pune                                  ITI Aundh
Voltas Ltd., Thane                           ITI Thane
1.2.4 Assessment of the impact of the Vocational training Project and evaluation of the quality
of training in ITIsjointly by Government and Industry.
During the process of implementation of various schemes under the Project, important
inputs in the form of equipment, construction of buildings, staff and staff training, have been
provided to about 565 ITIs. During the final year of implementation of the Project, it was felt
necessary to assess the impact of this Project in qualitative and quantitative terms. In this
connection, teams comprising representatives from CII, Local Industry & DGET were formed to
assess the impact of the project.
The teams visited II ITIs (which received assistance under VTP) in 7 Northern States in
the first phase during September 1997 and 16 ITIs in 4 Western States in the fInd phase during
April 98. Sequences of events that have taken place, which led to initiating a new concept of joint
management of ITIs by Industry and Government is:
Phase-I
>  An international conference was jointly organised jointly by DGET and CII in October, 1996
on 'Vocational Training- the Road Ahead'. Experts from UK, Germany, Australia, leading
Indian companies and DGET presented the papers. Large number of representatives of
industries, DGET & State Governments attended the conference. As a follow-up action to
implement the recommendation of conference, it was decided to take up the ITIs upgraded
under VTP with World Bank assistance for assessing the impact of the Project and improving
the cooperation between ITIs & industry
> Visits to 11 ITIs upgraded under the Vocational Training Project with assistance from the
World Bank in 7 Northern States by a team comprising representatives of DGET, CII, State
Directorates and industry took place in September, 97..
> A workshop was jointly organised by CII & DGET in New Delhi in January 1998. The
objectives of the Workshop were:
1. To review the impact of recent upgradation of various ITIs under the World Bank
assistance.
2. To suggest fiture course of action for close co-operation between industry and the
training institutes.



Annex- III: Industry - Institute interaction                              Page A - 23
3. Recommendations for future action plan i.e. a clear role for Government, Industry and
Institutes.
The Workshop was attended by representatives of Industry, DGET, State & Principals of
ITIs. The members of the World Bank review mission for Jan.-Feb,98 also attended the
workshop as observers. The finding of the team, which visited the ITIs upgraded under the VTP
were presented. A major recommendation of the Workshop was joint management of ITIs by
Government and Industry by formation of Steering Committee and Institute Managing
Committees for ITMs.
> A Workshop was held on 17.4.98 in Chandigarh to follow-up the recommendations of
workshop held in Delhi, in particular formation of IMCs. The concerned State Directors
agreed for taking up the proposal on pilot basis in one ITI in each State.
Phase- I
>  Visits to 16 ITIs upgraded under the Vocational training Project with assistance from the
World Bank in 4 Western States by a team comprising representatives of DGET, CII, State
Directorates and industry in April 98.
3.241  Findings of the Joint team of CII-DGETabout the impact of VTP:
The assessment indicates that there is significant improvement in the infrastructure
facilities, which has led to improvement in theoretical & practical training. The employability of
graduates from Project ITIs is better than that of Wraduates from other ITIs. This implies that the
internal & external effectiveness of Vocational Training in ITIs has shown improvement with the
implementation of Vocational Training Project. However, there is scope for further improvement
by improving the quality of instruction and better utilisation of infrastructure in some States.
1.2.5 Initiation of a new concept of joint management of ITIs by Government and Industry.
[Formation of Institute managing Committees (IMCs) and Steering Committees].
The various measures taken for improving the Institute Industry interaction have yielded
mixed results. From the experience gained from these measures, workshops and seminars
organised after the visit of CII-DGET teams to the Ms, it was felt desirable to have a formal
structure, which clearly defines the roles and responsibilities of Government and Industry. Very
far reaching decision related to joint management of S ITIs (1 in each Northern State) under a
pilot project has been taken. Composition, role and responsibilities of Steering committee at the
state level and Instituute Managing Committee at ITI level are given below:
Composition, Role And Responsibilities Of Steering And Institute Managing Committee
COMPOSITION:
STEERING COMMITITEE for the State/ UT - 8 members
1-3 Representatives of Industry - Three
4. Representative of CII (Northern Region)
5. Director General, DGET
6. Secretary in-charge of Vocational Training ................................. Chairman



Annex- III: Industry - Institute interaction                             Page A - 24
7. Principal, ITI (By Rotation)
8. Representative of Employees (skilled worker) / Experts
INSTITUTE MANAGING COMMITTEE (IMC) - 10 members
1-4 Representatives from Industry  - Four
(including Chairman from Industry)
5. Representative of CII (Northern Region)
6. Representative from State Directorate dealing with Vocational Training
7. Principal of ITI
8. One senior faculty member of ITI
9. One student representative
10. District employment officer
11. One representative of DGET (optional, only for pilot project)
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE INSTITUTE MANAGING COMMITTEE (IMC)
Generation and Utilisation of Finance:
>  The IMC would be free to generate funds through various projects from industry.
>  These funds would be available to the IMC for utilisation as decided by them.
Students Selection:
>  Vocational guidance about the nature of course, job opportunities and career prospects would
be provided to students prior to applying for admission in ITI so that they choose right
courses.
i  Introductory seminars for the fresh students (including visits to industry) may be conducted
by industry to create interest and motivate them.
> The IMC may adopt various transparent methods of selection according to the individual
needs of each institute. However, the guidelines prescribed by the NCVT should not be
violated.
Examination Supervision:
>  Theoretical examinations will be jointly supervised by industry.
> Practical examination and evaluation will be supervised jointly by industry and external
examiner.
Facultv Evaluation:
>  Faculty evaluation will be done by the Steering Committee and their recommendations will
carry weight and recognition.
> Faculty Development Form will be designed by IMC which will include criteria for gradation
and development of faculty.
Teaching Aids:
Teaching aids like working models, slides, video projections, instruction material in vernacular
languages, work books, detailed job assignments of the institute will be upgraded under the
supervision of IMC.



Annex- III: Industry - Institute interaction                             Page A - 25
MIS System:
Under guidance of the Steering Committee the Managing Committee will introduce an MIS
System for each ITI. CII will provide the necessary inputs for creating such MIS System.
Employment:
>  The IMC will be responsible for helping students in registration. Before passing out all ITI
students will be registered with (i) local employment exchange (ii) Overseas employment cell
(iii) Regional Headquarters of CII (iv) Campus interviews will also be arranged.
> Trainees will be helped by the industry to go in for self-employment through acquisition of
skills relating to interaction with FIs and basic trade and commerce facilities.
Faculty and Staff Development:
> IMC will identify the training needs of all faculty and staff members based on Faculty
Development Forms.
> Detailed annual and quarterly training calendars, budgets and release of personnel for training
programmes will be planned by IMC including exchange of personnel between industry and
institute.
Industrial Training:
>  IMC will prepare guidelines for the industrial training with details of periods of training
including projects for students and faculty. Students of one trade may be released together for
industrial training in order to avoid disruption of training in ITI.
> IMC will also decide about the stipend to be paid to each student and faculty by the industry
providing training.
Transfer for faculty: IMC will be taken into confidence while transferring the faculty from one
institute to another.
Equipment Maintenance: The maintenance and replacement of the equipment at the institute will
be supervised by IMC.
Capital Expenditure: IMC will be consulted for spelling out specifications for the procurement of
equipment including accessories and measuring equipment.
Curriculum Revamping:
>  IMC will be allowed to revamp the curriculum of any trade above the NCVT's norms on the
basis of industry needs.
> IMC will be allowed to include new trades and discontinue the obsolete trades by following
simplified procedures to be decided by DGET.
Facult Deputation: Deputation of the faculty from one institute to another will be made at the
recommendations of IMC.
Consultancy Rules: The rules for providing consultancy by the ITI will be laid down in
consultation with the Managing Committee.
Indicators for monitoring the performance of IMC:
1. Employment rate within 6 months of completing the course
2. Student output to sanctioned capacity



Annex- 111: Industry - Institute interaction                                Page A - 26
> Admission rate
' Retention rate
>  Pass rate
3. Internship/ on-the-job training per student per year
4. Average number of days of deputation of instructors in industry per year
5. Revenue generated as percentage of operating expenses
6. Donation of machinery and equipment to ITI by industry
7. Other cooperation between ITI and industry
8. Time devoted by experts from industry in conducting classes or other activities in ITI
9. Recommendations made by IMC and their implementation
Role of Steering committee:
1. To decide additional roles and responsibilities of IMC
2. To monitor performance of IMC
3. To encourage industries to actively participate and contribute to the development of
vocational training
4. To coordinate with State Government, DGET, NCVT and industry
1.3  Institute-Industry Interaction in Gujarat: (Quoted as an example)
Industry is involved almost at every important stage of Vocational Training in the state:
> There is Apex standing committee of state level in which Gujarat Chamber of
Commerce & Industry is also member. The committee advises on policy matters like
location of ITI and trades to be started.
>  9 syllabi have been updated with participation of 11 industries.
>  102 Ms are having local advisory committee in which two members are from
industry committee meets regularly in each m.
> Evaluation of practical work of trainee is mostly done by experts from industries.
> For theoretical assessment examiners from industry are invited at central assessment
centres.
> To keep abreast of latest technology to student & faculty members, guest lecturers
from industry are invited.
i In the selection of instructors for ITIs experts from industry are also invited.
>  Recently ms are directed to accept job work from industries/users to expose trainees
to hard market reality.
> Industry visits, participation in technical exhibitions and visit to trade fairs etc. are
other means of interaction with industry.
C:\ashwani\Impact-VTP\ICR report\ICRWB-Annex-III_lTlindusrtrynt..doc



Annex-IV: Proied Cost FinancinQ                                                          Paae A-27
TABLE 8 A - PROJECT COST
Si.       ITEMS              Apprisal Estimate (RS. Million)    Actual I Latest Estimates(RS. Million)
No.                       Local Cost Foreign Cost   Total   Local Cost  Foreign Cost    Total
I - Investment Cost
1 Civil Works & Furniture     459.7        81.1       540.8     635.95           0      635.95
2 Equipment and Books         2123.8      807.3      2931.1    3316.43       52.27      3368.7
3 Local Training               150.1        7.9         158      65.75           0       65.75
4 Overseas Training              4.5       40.7        45.2          0         3.6         3.6
5 Specialist Services           21.1       23.1        44.2        8.42     136.88       145.3
TOTAL of I                 2759.2        960      3719.3    4026.55       192.75     4219.3
ill - Recurrent Costs    l
6 Honoraria & Travel           110.7                 _110.7       57.63   ..             57.63
7 Incremental Salaries         702.4          0       702.4     745.61           0      745.61
8 Consumable Materials         126.9        6.7       133.6       58.1           0        58.1
9 Incremental Maintenance      188.6        9.9       198.5                        _____
10 Miscellanious                40.8         2.1       42.9      260.96          0      260.96
TOTAL of 11                1169.4        18.7     1188.1      1122.3          0      1122.3
_  TOTAL OF I & II           3,928.60     978.80    4,907.40    5,148.85     192.75    5,341.60
_  Contingencies             1104.02      265.12     1369.14f         0           0          0
| TOTAL PROJECT COST    5,032.62    1,243.92    6,276.54    5,148.85      192.76    5,341.60
Note
There will be foreign cost component (indirect cost) in other items like Computers, Softwares, CNC controls,
bearings, machine components, books, consumables, operations and maintenance etc. However the cost component
is difficult to estimate hence not been indicated.
TABLE 8 B - PROJECT FINANCING
Si.       ITEMS              Apprisal Estimate (RS. Million)    Actual I Latest Estimates(RS. Million)
No.                       Local Cost Foreign Cost   Total   Local Cost  Foreign Cost    Total
I IBRD / IDA                2844.08     1243.92       4088     3814.25      140.48     3954.73
2 Co Financing Institutions       0           0           0          0           0          0
3 Other Extemal sources           0           0          0           0           0          0
4 Domestic contribution      2188.54          0     2188.541     1334.6      52.27     1386.87
TOTAL                    5,032.62 1  1,243.92 1  6,276.54 1  5,148.85 I    192.75    5,341.60



Annex- V: Assessment of Uutcome                                             Page A - 28
Annex- V: ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Original Financial Allocation (EFC) vs Expenditure
Component    Original EFC          Expenditure         %age
S.N.                        allocation      upto Dec. 98#      utilization
(Rs. in rnillion)  (Rs. in million)
1    Equipment               2839.9            3209.00         113.00%
2     Salary                  562.8             722.76         128.42%
3     Civil Works             515.0             617.80         119.96%
4     Training & SS           221.3             214.50          96.93%
5     Others                  276.8             146.20          52.82%
TOTAL                4415.8 *           4910.26         111.20%
- As per report of CPIU (Acctts.) based on SoEs
* - Total allocation (upto end of IX Plan with part funding by World Bank upto 31.12.98) was
revised to Rs.576.70 crore by EFC mainly to accommodate additional components i.e.
Supply of Modern Equipment to ITIs and MIS].
Financial Allocation vs Expenditure
350-           
3001  
250-  
200-_ 
150 _ 
100 _ 
50--
Equipment    Salary    Civil Works Training & SS   Others
|  Original EFC allocation * Expenditure upto June 98
Following table gives break up of percentage of investment envisaged and actually made
for various components.
S.N.     Component    % of total original  Actual % of total
EFC allocation        expenditure
I    Equipment                     64%                  65%
2     Salary                        13%                  15%
3     Civil Works                  12%                   13%
4     Training & SS                  5%                   4%
5     Others                        6%                    3%



Annex- V: Assessment ot Outcome                                                 Page A - 29
Time series analysis of % increase in pass rate of ITI trainees
There has been substantial increase in pass rate of ITI trainees. The % increase in pass rate
reported by some of the States is indicated in the following chart.
E% increase in pass rate of ITI trainees
W. Bengal         4**;r 3 6
Gujarat PAO     I tfi .* 6
TN
HP iW'7 7j, 78
Maharashtra VA?O '40    ..*:; 18
Chandigarh YA      (  3* *.      9
Rajasthan    t                        ZLagit:&   1 5
Kamataka   *     '-f  ht::'gz  :   .,./   t  -8
Punjab      g       *f. .s.-  ,^    >t.>  .i :'1 4.  20
Time series analysis of % decrease in drop out rate of ITI trainees
There  has  been           J0% decrease in drop out rate of ITI trainees
substantial
decrease      in         Punjab 1    3
dropout rate  of
ITI trainees. The        Gujarat [1  3
%   decrease  in            TN I     13
dropout      rate
reported by some            HP
of the States is            uP g         4
indicated in the
chart.               Maharashtra 1            7
Kamataka                     10
Rajasthan I                    .       .     .   ....  t20



Annex- V: Assessment ot Outcome                                            Page A - 30
Impact on employment rate of ITI graduates
Tracer study of ITI graduates
Employment rate of graduates from ITIs upgraded with World Bank assistance is higher
by 71.80% over those from other ITIs.
%/Oage of trainees got employment
Non- World Bank aided ITIs                    I      I
l A
0     10    20    30    40    50
Assessment/ estimation by instructors and principals
Improvement in employability has been significant
Neither agree nor
Agree                      ~~~~~~~~~~disagree
_                           _      |Stongly d~~~~~~~~~isagree |
|Stronsly~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~tont A gree|



Annex- V  Assessment ot Outcome                                                          Page A - 31
% of equipment in good working condition|
After Project                                                             p92.32
Before Project /,,
0           20            40           60           80           100
Expansion ofAdvanced Vocational Training Scheme
Trainees Target vs Achievement
Acheivement    9                                                1014
Target ,E,^w' ex't . 5  a-e .X., & 17000
0    5000  10000  15000  20000  25000  30000  35000
Impactof VTP on Women's training In Maharashtra
No. of wrTi
% of Women in                                   21
CTS                          1 l2
Employrment                                     42%
rate                              30%
rBefore VTP    MAtter VTP



Annex- V: Assessment of Outcome                                                                                          Page A - 32
Assessment in Terms of the Benefits as Perceived by Those Who Make Use of the Inputs
1-       ~~Improvement in infrastructure facilities has been significant
Northern PRglon                                                  Western Region
64%                                                           44%
~~~~ ~~14%
32%                                                    42%
* Strongly agree * Agree O Others                                  U Strongly Agree U Agree El Others
Improvement in the effectiveness of practicartraining has been significant   |
Northern Region                                                      Western Region
58%                                                                       %
14%
34%
U Strongly Agree U Agree 0 =Ot=hers                                      U Strongly Agree U Agree El Others]



Annex- V: Assessment of Outcome                                                                       Page A - 33
Improvement in the effectiveness of theoretical training has been significant 
Northem Region                                           Western Region
8%                                                  18%
: ~~~~-- - 36eL                                                         33%
56%
49%
E Strongly agree E Agree ElOthers]                       EStrongly agree E Agree Q Others



page A- 34
Abbreviations
MOE          Modernisation of Equipment
EMS          Equipment Maintenance System
AVA          AV Aids
BTC          Basic Training Centre
RIC          Related Instruction Centre
INT          Introduction of New Trades
AVTS         Advanced Vocational Training system
SEC          Self Employment Cell
WITI        New Women ITI/Wings
WINT        New Trades in Existing Trades/Wings
PMU          Project Management Units
NVTS         National Vocational Training System
DGE&T        Directorate General of Employment & Training
CSTARI       Central Staff Training & Research Institute
WB           World Bank
IDA          International Development Agency
ITI          Industrial Training Institutes
ATI          Advanced Training Institutes
NVTI         National Vocational Training Institute
RVTI         Regional Vocational Training Institutes
PWD          Public Works Department
CPWD         Central Public Works Department
GTZ          German Agency for Technical Development
MRC          Media Resource Centre
MIS          Management Information System
EFC          Expenditure Finance Committee
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
UT           Union Territories



page A- 3)
References
Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta; 1998: Tracer Study of ITI Graduates in 4 States of
W. Bengal, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi.
Implementation Completion Reports! Progress reports! Other related reports from 28
States/UTs covered under the Project
ILO, Geneva: World Employment Report 1998-99.
A. Aggarwal, 1998: Analysis & Restructuring of National Vocational Training System
(ANTS) in India.
D.G.E.&T., Ministry of Labour (1999): Achievement of Objectives/Assessment of
Outcome of the World Bank assisted Vocational Training Project.
D.G.E.&T., Ministry of Labour (1999): Project Operation Planfor the World Bank
assisted Vocational Training Project.
Economic Times (6.1.99) : News item relatedto Employment trends
Ministry of Labour: Expenditure Finance Committee memorandum for JITP (Original
and revised)
Ministry of Labour: Annual Reports 1995-96, 1997-98
Ministry of Labour: Details of Schemes covered under YTP
World Bank: StaffAppraisal Report for the VTP
World Bank: Aide Memoires of review missions.
C:\ashwani\Impact_VTP\JCR report\1CRWB-Abbreviations.doc



