CREDIT NUMBER 2008 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Vocational Training Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        '     -   t          , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2008 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       U'4-L.L(       , 1989, between INDIA,
acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B) the Borrower has also tequested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000) (the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the exteht
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain front each of the States
and Union Territories of India (as hereinafter defined) which
participate in the Project certain undertakings in respect of the
carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, 6on the basis,-inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Crd&it A   the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in t1is Agrfement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE .
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
(b) "the,States" means any of the States of India, including
any successors to any of them, which participate in the Project
and from which the Borrower has received a Letter of Undertaking;
(c) "State" means, as the context may require, any one of
the States referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this Section;
(d) "Union Territories" means any of the Union Territories
administered by the Borrower which participate in the Project and
from which the Borrower has received a Letter of Undertaking;
(e) "Union Territory" means, as the context may require, any
one of the Union Territories referred to in sub-paragraph (d) of
this Section;
(f) "Letters of Undertaking" means undertakings to be
provided to the Borrower by each of the States and Union
Territories pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(g) "MOL" means the Ministry of Labor of the Borrower;
(h) "DGET" means the Directorate General of Employment and
Training within MOL;
(i) "NVTS" means the National Vocational Training System
coordinated by MOL;
(j) "ITI" means an Industrial Training Institute which
adheres to centrally prescibed curricula and certifies students
according to standards and tests sanctioned by the National Coun-
cil for Vocational Training;


﻿3-
(k)  "BTC" means a Basic Training Center which provides-basic
training for apprentices as part of a structured apprenticeship
program under the Apprenticeship Act of 1961, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;
(1) "RIC" means claszroom facilities where theory related to
apprenticeship training is imparted.by qualified instructors;
(m) "NVTI" means the National Vocational Training Institute
for women;
(Ii) "RVTI" means a Regional Vocational Training Institute
for women at the regional level;
(o) "ATI" means an Advanced Training Institute offering
instructor training programs and short term modular courses for
upgrading and updating skilled workers and technicians;
(p) "HTC" means the High Technology Training Center for
electronics, computers and robotics to be established under the
Project which will train instructors, develop courses, offer
direct training in advanced skills areas and prqvide consulting
services to industry;
(q) "CSTARI" means the Central Staff Training and Research
Institute located in Calcutta which conducts training for
vocational training management and supervisory staff and research
on problems -in vccational training and develops -training
materials;
(r) "CPIU" means the Central Project Implementation ,Unit
established within DGET;
(s) "TD" means, as the context may require, a Training
Directorate implementing the vocational training program within a
State or an Union Territory;
(t) "Special Account" means the account. referred, to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;.
.(u) "Project Year" means any.one year period commencing on
April 1 and ending on March 31; and
(v) the sign "Rs" means rupees in the currency of India.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one hundred eighty-nine million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 189-,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures *made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
,reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Pkoject,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of l%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and
at such other rates as may be set from time . to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-5-
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4,02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2,06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a). Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing December 15, 1998 and ending June 15, 2023. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15,
2008 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall 'have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the'Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yAt due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some -r all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the


﻿-6-
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out through and under the
overall coordination of DGET, or cause to be carried out, the Pro-
ject with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, vocational training and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 'a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Progrok set forth in Part A of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
*    (c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
obligations under this Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower
shall seek the performance of the States and Union Territories in
accordance with the undertakings contained in their respective
Letters of Undertaking, shall take -and cause to be taken all
actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the States
and Union Territories to perform such undertakings, and shall not
take any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(d) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall make available to the States for
the purposes of such Parts of the Project which are carried out by
the States, part of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with
the Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance to
the States of India and its agencies, to be passed on by the


﻿-7-
States to their respective TDs in amounts to be confirmed by the
Boir-er to the Association, in accordance with standard
arrang6iments of such States for the passing of such funds.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agrea, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
reqdired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that those Parts of
the Project which are carried' out by the States and Union
Territories shall be performed in accordance with Letters of
Undertaking satisfactory to the Association, to be obtained by the
Borrower from each of the States and Union Territories and
submitted to the Association, including the provisions set forth
in Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
swith sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of DGET or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-8-
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Associatfon shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause t- be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any State or Union Territory shall have failed to
perform any of its undertakings in accordance with any Letter of
Undertaking; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that a State or an Union Territory will be able


﻿-9-
to perform its undertakings in accordance with a Letter of
Undertaking.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the.Association
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after -the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of
the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
ECOFAIRS                        953-313546
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
41-~@ Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of     Amount of
the Gredit     the Loan
Allocated     Allocated
(Expressed    (Expressed          % of
in SDR      in Dollar       Expenditures
Cater            Eivalent)     Equivelent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works,     .15,400,000     5,000,000    60%
related
professional
services and
furniture
(2) Equipment,       119,100,000     7,000,000    100% of foreign
books and                                     expenditures;
instructional                                 100% of local
materials                                     expenditures
(ex-factory,
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured
locally
(3) Staff Training     9,200,000     4,000,000    100%
(4) Honoraria,         4,800,000        -         50%
travel and
subsistence
allowances


﻿- 12 -
Amount of     Amount of
the Credit     the Loan
Allocated     Allocated
(Expressed    (Expressed         % of
in SDR      in Dollar      Expenditures
Category         Equivalent), Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Consumable        2,700,000     3,000,000     60%
materials
(6) Specialist        2,600,000         -         100%
services
(7) Incremental      16,700,000     8,000,000     60% during
Salaries                                     first three
Project Years;
50% during
next four
Project Years
(8) Unallocated,     18,700,000     3,000,000
TOTAL           189,200,000   30,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made from any Category in the table in paragraph
1 of this Schedule in respect of any State or Union Territory
unless such State or Union Territory shall have provided to the
Borrower a Letter of Undertaking, satisfactory to the Association,
and the same shall have been submitted to the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in


﻿an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 7,600,000
may be made for Categories 1 to 7 out of the proceeds of the
Credit on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after May 1, 1988.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the implementation
of MOL's long-term program to modernize and restructure the NVTS
through: (a) improving the quality and efficiency of craftsman and
appenticeship training; (b) expanding the scope and relevance of
the advanced skills training programs; and (c) strengthening the
planning and management capacity for vocational training at
Central and State levels.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Modernizing the Craftsman Training Program
1.   Provision of an integrated package of inputs consisting of:
the replacement and modernization of workshop equipment, the
introduction of new tifades, the upgrading of instructors, and
modern instructional materials and audio-visual equipment in about
400 ITIs.
2.   Establishment of a comprehensive maintenance and repair capa-
bility for workshop equipment at about 100 larger ITIs and about
19 regional maintenance centers.
3.   Expansion of the pilot post-ITI training for self-employment
program in about 100 ITIs.
4.   Creation of 24 new BTCs and 44 RICs in trades and theoretical
areas.
5.   Construction of about 100 new women's ITIs/wings.
6.   Introduction of about 18 new trades in non-traditional areas
in about 72 existing women's ITIs/wings.
7.   Construction of 4 new women's RVTIs for training instructors.
8.   Introduction of about 17 new trades at the advanced skills
level in existing RVTIs and the NVTI.
9.   Provision of equipment and technical assistance to strengthen
the capacity of the curriculum and methods development wing of the
NVTI.


﻿-15-
Part B:   Expanding Advanced Training Programs
1.   Upgrading facilities and equipment in about 34 ITIs where
advanced training would be provided.
2.   Extension of advanced skill offerings and related equipment
in 6 existing ATIs.
3.   Construction and equipping of one High Technology Training
Center for electronics, computers and robotics.
Part C:   Improving NVTS Planning. Management and Supeivision
1.   Provision of equipment and technical assistance to develop
NVTS project management capability.
2.   Provision of equipment and technical assistance to strengthen
the NVTS monitoring and evaluation system.
3.   Provision of data processing equipment and facilities for
improving trade testing, certification and documentation.
4.   Provision of equipment and facilities, and technicai assis-
tance for strengthening the women's training unit at the DGET.
5.   Provision of equipment, technical assistance, and operational
funding for NVTS management and supervisory training, and
conducting studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions cf paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 9 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment items or groups of equipment items estimated to
cost less than $200,000 but comprising highly specialized items
not available in India, may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
2.   Equipment items or groups of equipment items estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding $118,500,000, works, furniture and
consumable materials may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Off the shelf items or groups of items up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $24,800,000, furniture, and consumable
materials estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis


﻿- 17 -
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Books and instructional materials may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the procedures set forth in
paragraph 3 of this Part C or through direct purchases in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Proprietary equipment items required for training in specific
service-related trades up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$21,400,000, may be procured through direct purchases in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.   Fellowships and training shall be arranged with local and
overseas institutions. Placement of fellows in foreign
institutions shall be made on the basis of relevance and quality
of the programs offered, costs and prior experience and shall be
subject to review by the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract to be awarded in
accordance with Part A hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.


﻿(~18
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authoriied withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
as agreed between the Borrower and the Association. Such consul-
tants shall be selected in accordance with principles and proce-
dures agreed between the Borrower and the Association on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:   Implementation Arrangements
1.   The Borrower shall maintain a Central Project Implementation
Unit (CPIU) within DGET which shall be staffed at a level satis-
factory to the Association and shall be responsible for the coor-
dination, supervision and monitoiring of the implementation of the
Project.
2.   The Borrower shall ensure that the equipment maintenance
system established under the Project is adequately funded and
maintained during the period of the Project.
3.   By December 31 of each year, commencing on December 31, 1989,
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association for its
review, the proposed implementation plan in respect of the
following Project Year. Each such proposed plan shall include,
without limitation, staffing and training plans, plans for the
acquisition of land (and a statement of land acquired to date),
and financial, procurement and construction plans for such Project
Year.
4.   The Borrower shall undertake and furnish to the Association
the following studies in accordance with terms of reference and an
action plan agreed with the Association: (i) an evaluation of the
self-employment scheme no later than December 31, 1994; (ii) a
tracer study of ITI certificate holders into the labor market no
later than September 30, 1995; (iii) a sample study of ITI
instruction no later than December 31, 1994; and (iv) a study of
the application of accreditation standards in selected ITIs no
later than July 31, 1995.
5.   The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 1994 undertake
and furnish to the Association a mid-term review of the progress
of the Project in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Association with a view to identifying any implementation
problems and actions required to strengthen the subsequent
execution of the Project.
6.   In order to ensure adequate linkages between industry and the
ITIs included in the Project, the Borrower shall continue the
policy of establishing local level advisory committees and the
appointment of industrial liaison officers at each ITI assisted
under the Project.


﻿- 20 -
Part B:   Letters of Undert4king
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, each of the Letters of Undertaking shall make reference to
the Borrower's obligations under this Agreement and shall contain
provisions to the following effect:
1.   Each State-and Union Territory shall declare its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
2.   Each State and Union Territory shall agree to carry out its
respective components of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and Iin conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, vocational training and engineering practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for such components.
3.   Each State and Union Territory shall agree to establish a
Project. Implementation Unit within its TD and take all such steps
as shall be necessary to assist the Borrower in carrying out its
obligations under this Agreement, including, without itmitation,
its procurement and financial reporting obligations.
4.   Each State shall agree to make the proceeds of tle Credit
provided to it pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agr ment, to
its respective TD in accordance with standard arrangements for the
passing of such funds.
5.   Each State and Union Territory shall cause the TD' to furnish
an annual work program and quarterly reports on the progress of
the Project to CPIU in accordance with an agreed format and action
plan.
6.   Each State and Union Territory shall agree to cause the ITIs
which have received financial assistance under the Project to be
operated and maintained in conformity with sound administrative
financial and vocational training practices. Each State and Union
Territory shall ensure that adequate provision is made for the
maintenance of ITI equipment and facilities and that all necessary
repairs and renewals are made thereto.
7.   Each State and Union Territory shall agree to take or cause
to be taken all such action as may be necessary to acquire land as
and when needed for carrying out the Project.


﻿- 21 -
8.   Each State and Union Territory shall, at the request of
either the Borrower or the Association, agree to exchange views
from time to time with the Borrower and the Association on
progress of the Project and to furnish all such information
related thereto as may reasonably be requested. In particular,
each State and Union Territory shall provide such information as
may be required by the Borrower to fulfill its supervision,
monitoring and reporting obligations under this Agreement and
shall afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives of the
Association to visit any part of the relevant State or Union
Territory for purposes related to the Project.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term. "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3)    (4), (5) ,  (6) *and. (7) - set forth in the table in
paragraph 1.of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accorance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account
for eligiule expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit Account or from the Loan Account


﻿- 23 -
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Associatiod when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, or directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of
the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions applicable thereto; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for
the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association
or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of *the
respective General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the
Loah Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditetor in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the-Association deposit into the
Special, -Aeount (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment*or the portion thereof not-so eligible or justified.
No further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit-or refund..
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account -will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount for
crediting to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case
may be.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPME                ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby oertify that the forego   is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


