FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 146a-TH
APPRAISAL OF THE
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
THAILAND
June 8, 1973
Asia Projects Department
Public Utilities Division
f This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibiity for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Baht ($)
US$1.00        =    $20.80
$ 1.00         =    US$O.048
$ 1 million          US$48,077
MEASURES ATD EQUIVALENTS
mm        =  millimeter (0.03937 inches)
cm        =  centimeter (0.3937 inches)
m         =  meter (39.37 inches)
kmn       =  kilometer (0.62 miles)
cn2       =  square centimeter
km2       =  square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
!13       =  cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or 264 US gallons)
gallons   =  US gallons (0.833 Imperial gallons or 3.785 liters)
1         =  liter (0.220 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
1/cd      =  liters per capita per day
1/sec     =  liters per second (19,000 Imperial gallons per day or
22,800 US gallons per day)
m3/sec    =  cubic meters per second (19.0 million Imperial gallons
per day or 22.8 million US gallons
per day or 86,400 m3/day
m3/day    =  cutbic meters per day
,C _      =  gallons per minute
k;/cn2       k kilograms per square centimeter (14.22 pounds per square
inch)
ABBREVIATI0!S ANND ACPONYTIS
.0.13     =  Asian Development Bank
M= letropolitan Water Works Authority
CD)i      =  Ca-ip, Dresser & MrlcKee International Inc. (USA)
=  Booz, Allen and Hamilton International Inc. (USA)
~P-'TJ    =  Provincial Water Works Division of the
Public and Municipal Works Department
S}1       =  Sanitary Engineering Division of the
Denartment of Public Hlealth
IeAII)   =  United States Agency for International
Development
:7.ST?'i.  =  -lational Economic and Social Development Board
MIT       =ERBlack and Veatch International (USA)
FTSGAL YEAR
October 1 - Sen,tember 30



THAILAND
APPPAISAL OF THE BKNGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUNMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........................             ii
I.    ITTRODUCTIO  .......      ............................1
II.   THE SECTOR ........        .............................   2
General ......................                       2
Sector Development .................                 3
Sector Organization .................                4
Sector Financing ....................                4
III.   T1EE PROJECT ....................................          5
Description ....................                     5
Cost Estimates ............................          6
Loan Amounts ..............................          8
Detailed Design, Construction Supervision
and Project Management .................          8
Procurerment and Construction ..............         9
Disbursements and Closing Date ............         10
Land Acquisition and Rights-of-Way ........         11
Ecological Aspects .....      ...................   11
IV.   JUSTIFICATIONI ..................................         12
Existing Situation .......... .. ............       12
Water Supply Requirements for the Future            12
Expected Results of Project ...............         13
Least Cost Solution .......... .. ...........       13
Return on Investment ........... ...........        14
This report is based on the findings of Bank missions consisting of
Messrs. P. Callejas, P. Jacob, P.C. Kapur and V. Nwaneri whiclh visited
Thailand in July and November 1972. 'Tr. Callejas visited again in Marclh 1973.



-2-
Page No.
V.   T11E BORROWER         ...................................    15
The Borrower ............... ...............          15
Ilistory of Operations ....................    .      15
Organization and Management ...............           15
Operation of the System ...................           17
Financial Management ........... ...........          17
IMetering, Billing and Collection ..........          17
TManagement Consultants ..................     ..     18
Audit        .....................................    19
Insurance ................. ................          19
VI.   FINiANiCIAL ASPECTS .......       .......................    19
Introduction .......        .......................   19
Financial Position - Past and Present   .....         19
Financing Plan ........  . ....................       21
Financial Projections .....         ................  23
Tariffs and Rate Covenant ....        .............   24
Debt Limitation ......        .....................   24
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... ......            25
LIST OF ANNEXES AND MAPS
Annex
1.   Population Data and Projections
2.   Population and Area Data Used for Project Planning
3.   Existing Water Supply System
4.   Project Description
5.   Cost Estimates for Part A
6.   Construction Schedule
7.   Annual Project Expenditures
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from Bank Loan
9.   Estimated Past and Future Water Production
10.   Water Requirements and Production Capacity
11.   Internal Rates of Return
12.   Consultants' Estimate of Indirect Benefits
13.   Incremental Financial Rate of Return
14.   MWWA Organization Charts, 1972
15.   Approximate Income Statements 1968-1972
16.   Estimated Inccme Statements 1971-1982
17.   Estimated Sources and Application of Funds 1972-1982
18.   Estimated Balance Sheets 1971-1982
19.   Assumptions for Financial Projections
20.   Schedule of Water Rates



- 3 -
Maps
IBRD-10208 - Bangkok Metropolitan Area
IBRD-10209 - Existing Water Supply System
IBRD-10210R- Proposed Water Supply System






THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a water supply project for
the Bangkok metropolitan area for which a Bank loan of US$55.0 million is
proposed. A parallel loan of US$19.6 million for the project is being
considered by the Asian Development Bank.
ii.       The borrower would be the Metropolitan Water Works Authority
(MWWA) of Bangkok, an autonomous body established in 1967, which is respon-
sible for water supply in metropolitan Bangkok. MWWA has begun a major
effort, supported by the Government of Thailand, to strengthen its organization
and management and improve its operations and financial performance. Continu-
ance of this effort to achieve acceptable levels of service and efficiency
will be a prime and most demanding objective of the proposed project.
iii.      The recent history of the water supply systems in the four rapidly
growing municipalities which make up metropolitan Bangkok is marked by in-
ability to meet runaway demand in spite of rapid system expansion and by
financial dependence on government subsidies. At present, almost 40% of
the population, mainly of the lowest income, has no service and less than
one-quarter of the area served has a continuous supply of water at adequate
pressure. Meanwhile, the population and water demand of the metropolitan
area continue to grow and a program to increase water supply, to extend
distribution and to make drastic improvements in the efficient use of the
servi4e is required. The objectives of the proposed project are to meet
these requirements.
iv.       Over a five year period, the project would about double MWWA's water
supply and distribution capacity. The major water system components added
by the project, together with some future additions to the distribution
network, would be capable of serving about 2.5 million more people than
are presently served and the safety and reliability of the service to the
two million persons presently served should improve from poor to good.
Effective water use control measures would be imposed and the MWWA would
approach financial self-sufficiency. This would be a formidable undertaking
with many problems and would require. considerable cooperative effort and
support by MWWA, involved government agencies, the financing institutions
and the general public.
v.        The estimated total cost of the project is about Baht 4,417 million
(equivalent to about US$212 million) before interest and commitment
charges during construction. Foreign exchange costs would be equivalent to
about US$76.7 million (36%), substantially all of which would be financed by
the proposed Bank and ADB loans. MWWA is expected to meet about 25%
of the project costs with funds generated by operations during the construction
2eriod, which would be a dramatic change from MWWA's past reliance on govern-
ment subsidies. The balance of the project expenditures (39%) would be
financed by government loans.



- ii -
vi.       The project would be carried out by MWWA with the assistance of
engineering and management consultants. The arrangements for design, pro-
curement, construction supervision, management and control of the project
are suitable. The project is technically sound and the estimated costs
and time schedule are realistic. The project is scheduled for completion
about mid 1978.
vii.      All supply and construction contracts would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines.  Local firms are in a good position to win all of the pipe
installation contracts and some of the pipe supply contracts. Bids of local
manufacturers will receive a preference of 15% or applicable customs duties,
whichever is less. Foreign suppliers and contractors (probably in association
with local firms) are expected to win the contracts for the large and complex
equipment and construction works which comprise most of the project component
proposed for financing by the Bank.
viii.     New water rates which went into effect in July 1972, together
with a modest increase immediately following the project construction period
should put the MWA in a fairly sound financial position. The determining
factors would be the effectiveness of programs, now underway, to improve
metering, billings and collections. Projected results include an annual
financial return on fix-d assets of almost 8% in 1980 and over 8.0% thereafter.
ix.       The expected incremental financial return on the water supply
facilities included in the project is about 8%. The return on the project
as a whole, which also includes investments in improved metering and billing,
would be about 12%.
X.        The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$55.0 million
equivalent for a term of 26 years including a grace period of 6 years.
It would be guaranteed by the Kingdom of Thailand.



THAILA'ND
APPRAISAL OF BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Thailand has requested parallel loans from the
Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to finance the foreign exchange
costs of a US$212 million project to increase the water supply capacity,
extend the water distribution system and improve water supply operations
in the Bangkok metropolitan area. A Bank loan of US$55 million and an ADB
loan of US$19.6 million are proposed to be made to the Metropolitan Water
Works Authority (MWWA), which is responsible for water supply in the area.
1.02      The project is part of a 30-year water supply program, underway
since 1971, based on a Water Supply and Distribution Master Plan completed
for the Government in February 1970. The Master Plan was financed by the
Government and prepared by Camp, Dresser & McKee (CDM), Consulting Engineers,
USA, in association with various other specialized consultants. 1/
1.03      Bank participation in project preparation began in 1968 at the
Government's request for technical advice. Early in 1970 the Bank reviewed
the Master Plan and commented on the decisions and actions required before
a discrete project would be ready for consideration by international finan-
cing agencies. Since then, Bank assistance on project preparation has
been given on a number of occasions, including field missions. A critical
element in project preparation was the time required to acquire land. Others
included development of MWWA's project administration capability and estab-
lishment of appropriate charges for water service. These issues have now
been substantially resolved. Early in 1971, at the request of the Government,
the ADB began considering possible lending for the part of the project
comprising distribution and metering. The Bank and ADB parts of the project
are mutually dependent and project planning has involved close cooperation
between the two institutions.
1.04      Field appraisals of the project were carried out concurrently by
the Bank and the ADB in July 1972. Because of a number of pending issues,
post-appraisal missions from both agencies visited Bangkok in November 1972
and March 1973. The Bank appraisal team comprised Messrs. P. Callejas,
P. Jacob, P.C. Kapur and V. Nwaneri.
1/   The special consultants included:  Booz, Allen & Hamilton, Management
and Financial Consultants; the Pitometer Associates, Engineers
(leakage and water use studies); Geraghty & Miller, Consulting
Groundwater Hydrologists; Haley & Aldrich, Consulting Soils Engineers;
and Jenny Engineering Corporation, Tunnel Consultants.



II. THE SECTOR
General
2.01      Thailand has an area of 514,000 sq km and a total population (1970)
of about 36.2 million. The population growth rate between 1960 and 1970
was about 3.1% per year. During the decade total urban population increased
about 4.9% per year and by 1970 urban population in communities of more
than 3,000 people totaled about 20% (7.25 million) of the national popula-
tion. Thailand's urban development is largely synonymous with the Bangkok
metropolitan area which in 1970 had a population of about 3 million (about
40% of total urban and more than 8% of national population). The next
largest urbanized areas have populations in the order of 100,000. Annex 1
shows the population growth of Thailand and the Bangkok metropolitan area.
2.02      In the absence of large secondary cities in Thailand, the dominance
of the Bangkok metropolitan area reflects far more than population alone.
It is the residence of the King and most Government functions are concen-
trated there. It is the main port, the center of finance and commerce and
most of Thailand's manufacturing industry is located there. It is the
center of higher education in Thailand, a popular tourist center and the
regional headquarters i- Southeast Asia for a number of international agencies
and commercial organizLions.  Metropolitan Bangkok comprises the four munici-
palities of Bangkok, Thonburi, Nonthaburi and Samut Prakan with a total area
of about 300 sq km ({ap IBRD-10208). The estimated annual population growth
rate between 1960 and 1970 averaged about 5.7% (Annex 1), due in part to
extension of municipal boundaries in 1965 and 1967. The rate of increase
as of 1970 was about 4% per year. About 10% of the municipal population
are squatters. Bangkok's development has not been according to any plan.
The rapid rate of growth along with a lack of any control over land use have
severely strained public services, particularly transportation and water
supply.
2.03      Forecasts of future growth of metropolitan Bangkok through the
year 2000 are given in Annex 1, which shows a range of predictions by various
authorities including the project consultants. Annex 2 summarizes the popu-
lation and area data used for project planning. For project purposes, the
1985 population is estimated at about 6.1 million (including some areas
served by MWA outside municipal boundaries) and in the year 2000 - signifi-
cant only as a very broad planning framework - almost 10 millior..  There are
Government proposals for promoting growth of other urban centers in Thailand
as a means of controlling Bangkok's growth.  Ilowever, the resul_s of such
action would not be strongly felt in Bangkok for some time.  In the meantime,
the city would continue to grow and the problems of coping with this growth,
including the provision of adequate urban infrastructure, would increase.



-3-
Sector Development
2.04      The water supply sector in Thailand can be divided into three
parts:
(a) rural communities with populations less than 5,000;
(b)  urban communities with populations greater than 5,000
except Bangkok; and
(c) the Bangkok metropolitan area.
2.05      About 29 million people (1970) live in about 45,000 rural communities
with populations of 5,000 or less. About 15% of this population, in about
10,000 communities, are served by some kind of public water system. Most
of these were developed during Thailand's Second Development Plan (1967-1971).
About 4 million people live in urban communities, other than Bangkok, with
populations over 5,000. Public water systems serve about one-third of this
population. During the Second Plan there were about 100 projects to provide
new water systems or expand existing ones in these urban communities. The
rural and urban population not served by the public systems use shallow
wells, rivers, streams, canals and rain water collected from roofs, which
generally are unsafe water sources without treatment.
2.06      During the Third Plan (1972-76) the Government proposes to con-
struct 50 new urban water systems, expand another 50, and provide water
supplies to 20,000 more villages. These objectives are ambitious but
foreign exchange requirements are low and the funds allocated appear adequate.
A Bank sector mission in 1971 reported, however, that technical assistance
was required for most efficient use of the funds and that attaining the
village program objectives probably required resolution of inter-agency
overlapping. A project to help improve the services and facilities, in-
cluding water supply, of four secondary cities in the Northeast is being
prepared with the Bank's help.
2.07      The most acute current sector problems that could be resolved
by outside financial assistance are in Bangkok. Bangkok's existing water
supply system (1972) is described in Annex 3 and the major elements are
shown in Map IBRD-10209. The system has a productive capacity of about
1,150,000 m3/day; 70% treated water from the Chao Phya River and 30% ground-
water. Another estimated 300,000 m3/day is drawn from groundwater sources
by private tubewells, mainly serving industrial, commercial and institutional
establishments. The public system provides service, generally unsatisfactory,
to about 63% of the 3 million population in the metropolitan area, including
nine small outlying communities with separate systems. About 20% of the
existing capacity has been added by improvements to the system since 1970.
Since 1950, when only about 20% of the metropolitan area was served, the
average annual increase in production has been about 12%. Yet demand has
not been met and service has been consistently poor (Annex 3 and paragraphs
4.01 through 4.03). If metropolitan Bangkok's population approaches
10 million by the year 2000, the Master Plan consultants estimated that an



- 4 -
investment of some US$600 million equivalent (1969 prices) over 30 years
would be required; of this, about US$335 million would be necessary over the
first 15 years.
2.08      Thailand has no significant separate sewerage systems to collect
and safely dispose of waste water from residences, industries or commercial
and institutional establishments in urban areas. Most waste water is dis-
charged directly or indirectly to storm water drains, surface drains, canals
or natural water courses. Water pollution is becoming an increasingly
serious aesthetic nuisance and health hazard in urban areas, especially
in Bangkok and along the nearby coast. Substantial investments, estimated
to total about US$140 million equivalent over a 15-year period, are required
to provide sewerage and improve drainage in the most densely developed
portions (about 50 km2) of metropolitan Bangkok. A Master Plan for sewerage,
drainage and flood protection in the metropolitan areas was completed in
1968 and approved in principal by the Government in 1969. Detailed design
of a first stage project was completed in about 1970. Implementation would
require major programs of institution building (including legislation) and
construction, but little progress has been made. Planning for waste disposal
in other urban areas also is required.
Sector Organization
2.09      The water supply system of the Bangkok metropolitan area is the
resporLsibility of the Metropolitan Water Works Authority (MWWA), the proposed
borrower described in Section V of this report.
2.10      Two major Government organizations are responsible for most com-
munity water supply in the other parts of Thailand. The Provincial Water
Works Division (PWWD) of the Public and Municipal Works Department in the
Ministry of Interior deals with communities of over 5,000 people. The PWWD
is responsible for the design, construction and operation of 144 municipal
water systems which it owns and also acts as consultant to 45 water systems
owned by municipalities. The Sanitary Engineering Division (SED) of the
Department of Public Health in the Ministry of Health deals with communities
of 500 through 5,000 where SED is responsible for the planning, design and
construction of water systems which are then turned over to the communities
for operation. SED staff train plant operators and advise on operations and
maintenance. Eight other Government organizations are active on water supply
in communities under 500 population.
Sector Financing
2.11      Since its establishment in 1967, and through FY 1972, MWWA has
incurred annual cash losses which were met by Government budget contributions.
The Government also made giants for capital improvements by MWWA until 1971
when it changed to a loan basis with the first of two loans for improvements.
These loans carry interest of 4% and are repayable in 20 years after five
ye-rs of grace. The past and expected future financing of MWWA's part of
the sector are described in Section VI of this report.



- 5 -
2.12      PWWD water systems are metered for the most part, and water rates
are uniform at Baht 2.00/m3. Except in some of the smaller systems, col-
lections cover cash operating costs before depreciation. Cash surpluses
accumulate in a central revolving fund and have been used to finance less
than 10% of capital expenditures. Charges for water supply service by most
SED systems are flat rate charges for service from public taps or from ser-
vice connections. Collections are difficult. SED also manages a small
revolving fund to help some communities. Most capital costs of both the
PWWD and the SED systems are financed by Government grants. USAID provided
about 40% (US$4 million) of the Government funds for SED projects during
the period 1966 through 1970; this source of aid has since been terminated.
III. THE PROJECT
Description
3.01      The proposed project would be the first major construction stage
(July 1973-June 1978) of a long-range program (paragraph 1.02) to increase
the water supply capacity, extend the water distribution system and improve
the water supply operations of the MWWA.
3.02      The project details are given in Annex 4 and the major elements
are shown in Map IBRD-10210R.  Because of the proposed parallel financing
by the Bank and the ADB, the project is divided into two parts, (A) and
(B), to indicate the components that would be financed by each agency.  The
principal project components are as follows:
Part A (Proposed for Bank Financing)
(a)  Raw Water Transmission Facilities - A new raw water
pumping station at Sam Lae, improvements to 21 km of
the open raw water transmission channel (Bang Luang
Reservoir and Klong Prapa) and a new siphon at Klong
Rangsit.
(b)  Water Treatment Plant - A new water treatment plant at
Bang Khen built in two phases. Total maximum reliable
capacity would be about 1,200,000 m3/day. Phase One
would be 800,000 m3/day and, Phase Two, 400,000 m3/day.
The plant includes the transmission pumping station;
(c)  Transmission Tunnels - 32.5 km of reinforced concrete
lined transmission tunnels, 2.0 to 3.4 m in diameter,
constructed in two phases;
(d)  Reservoirs and Pumping Stations - Four 40,000 m3 ground
level reservoirs and pumping stations (distribution
centers) which receive water from the transmission
tunnels and pump into the distribution system. These
would be constructed in two phases of two units each;



- 6 -
(e) Sam Sen Reservoirs - New treated water storage capacity
(40,000 m3) in three reservoirs at the existing Sam Sen
water treatment complex;
(f) General Use Equipment - Shop, maintenance, service,
miscellaneous treatment, office and transportation
equipment;
(g) Consulting Engineering - Detailed design and construction
supervision of Part A, general engineering advisory
services for project management and control and training
of engineering and operating personnel; and
(h) Management Consulting Services and Administrative and Financial
Training.
Part B (Proposed for ADB Financing
(a) Trunk Mains - 188 km of trunk mains from the distribution
centers, 400 mm to 1,500 mm diameter;
(b) Distribution Mains - 975 km of distribution mains from
150 mm to 30^ mm diameter;
(c) Metering Program - A meter maintenance shop, overhauling
of serviceable meters, and the purchase and selective
installation of 158,000 new ones;
(d)  Tubewells - 50 new 300 m3/hour tubewells, located in
areas where groundwater is good, to maintain MWWA's total
groundwater sources at about 330,000 m3/day capacity; and
(e) Consulting Engineering - Advisory services for detailed
design and construction supervision of Part B.
Cost Estimates
3.03      The estimated costs of Part A of the project are detailed in
Annex 5. The summarized costs of Parts A and B are given below:



-7-
Baht                     US$
Part A                      Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
-millions~~~----            -   - - - -
Raw water facilities                 54      25      79      2.6    1.2       3.8
Water treatment plant               354     353     707    17.0   17.0       34.0
Transmission tunnels               514      250     764    24.7   12.0       36.7
Distribution reservoirs
and pumping stations              182      189     371      8.8    9.1     17.9
Sam Sen Reservoirs                  37        9      46      1.8    0.4       2.2
General use equipment                18      27      45      0.9    1.3       2.2
Land                                157      -      157      7.5     -        7.5
Engineering Consultants:
Design                           49       44      93      2.4    2.0      4.4
Construction Supervision        146      108     254      7.0    5.2      12.2
Special Services & Training       6       16      22      0.3    0.8       1.1
MWWA Engineering                     61      -        61     2.9     -        2.9
Management Consulting & Training   22        23       45     1.1    1.1       2.2
Contingencies:
Physical                         108      73     181      5.2    3.5       8.7
Price                             99      72     171      4.7    3.5       8.2
Subtotal                    1,807   1,189   2,996    86.9   57.1    144.0
Part B
Trunk and distribution mains        738     247     985    35.4   12.0       47.4
Metering program                     41      44       85     2.0    2.1       4.1
Tubewells                            17      31      48      0.8    1.4       2.2
Engineering                          36      18       54     1.7    0.9       2.6
Contingencies:
Physical                         80       32     112      3.9    1.5       5.4
Price                           101       36     137      4.9    1.7       6.6
Subtotal                    1,013      408   1,421    48.7   19.6      68.3
TOTAL                  2,820   1,597   4,417   135.6   76.7    212.3
3.04      The cost estimates are realistic.  They were prepared by the en-
gineering and management consultants and M}WA.  Estimates of the Part A
construction components and contingency allowances are based mostly on detailed
designs and on March 1973 1/ prices for equipment, materials and construction
costs in Bangkok. General use equipment estimates were developed by the manage-
ment consultants and MWWA. Land costs are quite firm. The estimated costs
of the physical components of Part B are based on CDM's Master Plan estimates
1/   Including the expected effects of currency realignments through March
1973.



-8-
uodated to March 1973 by 1M,AWWA and ADB, using costs of current MSWA contracts
and quotations for equivalent work. 1/
3.05      The allowances added for physical contingencies on Part A supply
and construction contracts range from 5% to 10% of the estimated bid prices
befcre price contingencies. Considering the advanced state of design and
the information about sites, foundation conditions, construction and costs
used by the consultants, this allowance appears adequate.  The price contingency
allowance for Part A amounts to 8.1% of the major construction components
(including general use equipment and physical contingencies but excluding land)
and is based on escalation at the rate of 5% per year for foreign and local
costs between March 1973 and the expected dates of contract awards. These
allowances result from the consultants' evaluation of recent experience on
cost trends in Thailand on similar works, and are appropriate for the project.
The estimated costs of proposed Part A engineering supervision contracts include
price contingencies of 6% per year. The foreign exchange components of
total costs are based on assumptions as to the expected results of bidding
(paragraphs 3.16 and 3.17) and detailed analyses of the indirect foreign
exchange components of supplies and materials purchased locally by contractors.
3.06      The estimated costs include allowances for duties and charges
on imports and income and business taxes on contractors and consultants.
These total about Baht /90 million (10%) of the estimated cost of the total
project (excluding land).
Loan Amounts
3.07      A Bank loan of US$55 million equivalent is proposed to cover 96%
of the estimated foreign exchange costs of the Part A project, including
engineering consulting services related to Part A and the management
consulting services. The proposed loan amount excludes US$1.6 million of
foreign exchange expenditures on detailed engineering design of Part A
under a contract awarded in June 1971 (paragraph 3.08). A loan of US$19.6
million equivalent is expected from the ADB to finance 100% of the estimated
foreign exchange costs of Part B. Neither loan amount includes interest
during construction which would be covered by funds generated by MWWA
operations.
Detailed Design, Construction Supervision and Project Management
3.08      MWWA has responsibility for carrying out the project.  CDM was
engaged under two contracts for detailed design and preparation of tender
documents for Part A. Work under the first contract, involving most of
the project, has beer completed. The second contract for transmission
tunnels began in September 1972 with the agreement of the Bank in order not
to delay the project. The tender documents for the last tunnel segment are
scheduled to be finished by about October 1973. The consultants were engaged
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and the work has been
good. IWWA financed the first contract from its own resources. Retroactive
financing of the foreign exchange costs of the second contract since
1/   Including the expected effects of currency realignments through March 1973.



September 1, 1972 from the Bank loan is proposed and the amount of US$0.5
million is included in the loan.
3.09      Detailed design and preparation of tender documents for Part B
of the project are being done by NWWA's Department of Engineering.  MWWA
will engage a second consulting engineering firm, subject to the approval
of the ADB, to act in an advisory capacity to review and guide the Engineer-
ing Department's work on Part B.  The foreign exchange costs would be
financed by the proposed ADB loan.
3.10      The responsibility for construction supervision for Part A is to
be delegated by NMWWA to engineering consultants. A contract is being
negotiated with a joint venture comprising Black & Veatch International
(BVI) and CDM, subject to Bank approval. The foreign exchange costs would
be financed by the proposed Bank loan. The start of work under the
construction supervision contract is critical to the procurement and
construction timetables for Part A of the project but requires a letter
of intent authorized by the Government. Since the time required to complete
this process is uncertain, it was agreed during negotiations that Government
authorization to appoint the required consultants would be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan.
3.11      Construction supervision of Part B will be done by MWWA with the
advice and guidance of the Part B consultants (paragraph 3.09). The foreign
exchange costs would be financed by the proposed ADB loan.
3.12      Overall project coordination, control and administration are the
responsibilities of MWWA. Since this is a very formidable undertaking, MWWA
would arrange for the assistance of independent engineering advisers and
short-term specialists as needed on special problems. Engagement of the
advisers and the specialists would be subject to the approval of the Bank.
The foreign exchange costs of the advisory group would be financed by the
proposed Bank loan.
3.13      During negotiations assurances were obtained that consultants
acceptable to the Bank will continue to be engaged as outlined above (para-
graphs 3.08, 3.10 and 3.12) to assist MWA in carrying out the project.
Procurement and Construction
3.14      The schedule for design, procurement and construction of the
project is shown in Annex 6. Part A would be divided into about 30 major
contracts. The water treatment plant, transmission tunnels and the ground
level reservoirs and pumping stations would be built in two phases to permit
changes in the second phase should demand studies to mid-1975 demonstrate
the need (paragraph 4.10). Invitations for bids on the first 13 Part A
contracts would be advertised during the period August-October 1973. Tendering
for the second phase contracts would start during the last half of calendar
1975. Part A would be completed in about June 1978.



- 10 -
3.15      The pipeline components of Part B of the project will be carried
out through a number of smaller contracts spread fairly evenly over the
project period. The metering program and tubewell construction are to
be carried out mostly during the period 1973 through 1975. Completion
of Part B is scheduled for about the end of 1977.  The construction priority
of the various trunk main and distribution main segments would be reviewed
prom time to time taking account of water system operating data and the
-rend of water demand at various points of the system. A computer model of
the system, developed originally for the Master Plan, is to be brought
up-to-date by ?MWWA periodically as required for use in evaluating priorities.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
3.16      All supply and construction contracts for Parts A and B would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's and ADB's guidelines respectively. A preference of 15% or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, would be applied to bids
for Part A contracts from local manufacturers. No preference would be
given on ADB financed contracts. However, local firms are expected
to have little difficulty in winning some of the contracts for pipe supply
under Part B, and for substantially all of the pipe laying contracts.
3.17      Foreign suppliers and contractors (probably in association with
local firms in most case ) are expected to win the contracts for the large
and complex equipment anc" construction works comprising Part A. However,
substantial amounts of materials and supplies (such as pipe) which go into
the construction contracts would almost certainly be obtained locally by the
contractors. Substantially all required labor, with the possible exception
of some very specialized skills, are available locally and would be obtained
in Thailand by the contractors because of cost advantages.
Disbursements and Closing Date
3.18      Annex 7 shows the forecasts of project expenditures on an annual
basis for Parts A and B. These forecasts were derived from the construction
schedules (Annex 6) and the expected periodic progress payments on the
various contracts, including consulting contracts.
3.19      It is proposed that the loan for Part A be disbursed for:  the
estimated foreign exchange component (37%) of civil works contracts; the
C.I.F. costs of equipment directly imported; the ex-factory costs of locally
manufactured goods; 65% of imported but locally procured goods (i.e. off-the-
shelf items); and the foreign exchange costs of consulting services. The
estimated quarterly disbursements from the loan are given in Annex 8.
The estimated disbursements in the first two quarters include reimbursements
for US$1.0 million of prior expenditures on consulting services (paragraphs
3.08 and 5.14) proposed for Letroactive financing.



- 11 -
3.20      The Closing Date for the proposed Bank loan would be June 30, 1979
which allowsabout 12 months beyond the scheduled project completion date for
final contract payments and some slippage in the project.
3.21      In the event that the foreign exchange costs of Part A of the
project eligible for disbursements from the proposed Bank loan are less than
the amount of the loan, the unused balance of the loan would be cancelled.
Land Acquisition and Rights-of-Way
3.22      Land required for the raw water facilities, water treatment plant
(including future extensions) and the ground level reservoirs and pumping
stations has been acquired. The transmission tunnels (Part A), with the
following exception, and the trunk and distribution mains (Part B) are
designed to be installed in public property and do not require land acquisition
or rights-of-way. The exception for transmission tunnels is one section
under railway property for which approval by the railway authorities has
been obtained. In cases where detailed tunnel design shows possible savings
by crossing under small segments of private property, the NWWA would attempt
to obtain rights-of-way. Ilowever, if the cost of the right-of-way proves
to be too high or the acquisition procedures too lengthy, the short-cut
would not be taken.
Ecological Aspects
3.23      The project is intended to eliminate the deficiencies of the
existing water supply systems in the metropolitan area and to extend services
to substantial numbers of people who do not now have adequate amounts of safe
water conveniently available from the present public system. Thus the need
for the majority of the population to satisfy some or all of their water
requirements from unsafe water sources will be substantially reduced, and the
incidence and risk of diseases attributable to the lack of a good water
supply, a serious health problem in Thailand, would be reduced.
3.24      The increase of water supply, as a result of the project, would
cause significant changes in the nature and location of water pollution
problems.  Bangkok already has a waste water disposal problem (paragraph
2.08) and, therefore, some definite plan of action for a sewerage program
should be formulated and actions initiated as soon as practicable. The
Government noxw has the basis for a sewerage, drainage and flood protection
program in the metropolitan area (paragraph 2.08) but little action has been
taken.
3.25      It would be unrealistic to expect that a significant sewerage
program could get underw.ay within the next two or three years. However,
within that period definite progress on deciding how and when to deal with
the sewerage problem is possible and should be made. Therefore, as a means
of promoting action, assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations that positive action toward resolution of the sewerage and
drainage problems in the metropolitan area will be taken. Toward this end,
by December 31, 1974, the Government,in consultation with the Bank, would
prepare specific proposals including timetables and financing plans for:



12 -
(a) development of the institutional structure required for
carrying out Bangkok's sewerage projects and operations; and
(b)  for emba-king on a significant construction program.
The covenant also requires the Government to seek the enactment of
'!egislation to create the institutional framework mentioned above.
IV. JUSTIFICATION
Existing Situation
4.01      There are very serious deficiencies in the existing MWWA and
private water supply systems in the Bangkok metropolitan area and with the
service which MWWA can now provide (paragraph 2.07 and Annex 3). Alterna-
tives to the MWWA supply are limited almost exclusively to deep tubewells.
However, groundwater sources are being overused with the result that many
wells are failing or must be abandoned in an expanding area where the chloride
and iron content of the groundwater has increased to unusable levels (Annex 3,
paragraph 10). Also, reduced groundwater levels are resulting in settlement
of parts of the city witl a resulting increase in drainage and flood
protection problems.
4.02      MWWA's distribution network is now accessible for on-premises
water service to only about 63% of the total population in the metropolitan
area. Supply and pumping capabilities are such that MWWA can maintain
adequate pressures in only a small part of the distribution system (the
consultants estimate about 20%) and consequently distribution is not equitable.
At best, customers are able to get adequate amounts of water by pumping from
the mains (illegal but commonly practiced) or other expensive means. At
worst, the supply is available for only a few hours per week and the mains
are under a vacuum for considerable periods of time, permitting intrusion
of polluted water and contributing to the malfunction of meters. Most cus-
tomers have invested in storage facilities which they attempt to fill when
the MWWA supply is available.
4.03      With the existing deficiencies, lower income people in particular
are forced to resort to unsafe sources, usually the heavily polluted river
and klongs (canals) accessible to them. MRWA delivers water by tank truck
to some areas where the shortages are most acute. Those that can afford it
purchase bottled water for drinking. There is some sale of water by vendors,
usually an expensive a,id unsafe source.  Boiling water for drinking purposes
is a common and relatively expensive practice.
Water Supply Requirements for the Future
4.04      The past and expected future population growth of the metropolitan
area (now about 3 million) has been discussed in paragraphs 2.02 and 2.03
and is shown in Annexes 1 and 2. The project consultants' estimates of



- 13 -
the total population to be contended with in the service area as the basis
for planning the water supply system are for about 3.9 million by 1975, about
4.9 million by 1980 and about 6.1 million by 1985. Although there are a
range of rational forecasts by various authorities for the future population
of the metropolitan area, the divergence through 1985 is not much and the
consultants' estimates for 1975 through 1985 are sound bases for planning
this project.
4.05      The design projections for population to be served by the IThMA
syster and for future water requirements are shown in Annexes 9 and 10.
Annex 10 also shows a higher estimate of future water requirements based
on the 12% per year past trend, and a lower estimate of water requirements
based on minimum rational assumptions that could be derived from the base
data accumulated by the consultants. This minimum estimate results in
average requirements about 15% lower from 1978 than used as the basis for
project design, but is considered improbable because it assumes that domestic
water use per capita served would decline 50% (from about 300 1/cd to
150 1/cd) between 1970 and 1980.
Expected Results of Project
4.06      The project as planned would meet the expected water demand of the
metropolitan area until about 1982, as calculated by the consultants. If
measures proposed as part of the project to reduce wasteful water use and
control leakage (paragraphs 5.10 and 5.13) are not successful, the available
water supply on completion of the project would be immediately inadequate
to meet the project objectives. If the trend of water requirements follows
the minimum rational estimate (paragraph 4.05) the project might meet its
intended objectives until about 1985.
4.07      As planned the proposed project would provide good quality water
service for about 4.6 million people in an area of about 400 sq km. By
comparison, at present, about 2 million people in an area of about 180 sq km
are poorly served. The distribution system should be under sufficient
pressure at all times (Annex 4), except during severe power failures, to
supply water to the third level of any building served under conditions of
peak demand.
4.08      The project would allow MWA to reduce its reliance on groundwater
starting about 1977 and to discontinue such use altogether before 1990. At
the same time, MWWA would have capacity to provide most of the requirements
of establishments now using groundwater from private tubewells which have
to be abandoned (paragraph 4.01). Project planning assumes that total use
of groundwater (M7WA and private) will reach a peak of about 700,000 m3/day
within the next two years, and then will begin to decline and eventually level
off at about 400,000 m3/day by private users.
Least Cost Solution
4.09      The most costly elements of the project are the raw water treat-
ment and transmission facilities.  A number of basic alternatives as to



- 14 -
source of water and the location and sizing of units were examined. In the
case of the source of water there are no practicable alternatives. The
question studied and debated most extensively is whether the proposed
additional water suipply capacity provided by the project, and therefore
project costs, would be more than enough to satisfy demand for a reasonable
period after project completion. Assuming the lowest future trend of water
lemand (paragraph 4.05), treatment facilities of about two-thirds the
,roposed size could be adequate until about 1982. Thus, carrying out the
-roject as planned could result in an investment (before contingencies) of
about US$7.0 million equivalent (4% of the total project costs before contin-
gencies) for excess productive capacity some three or four years in advance
of actual requiremens. However, as noted in paragraph 4.05 this bLow trend
is considered improbable and building the project on that basis could easily
result in system deficiencies as soon as the major project investments are
completed. The project would then fail to achieve the intended r'esults and
this risk is considered too great in relation to potential cost benefits to
make this alternative acceptable for Bangkok.
4.10      As noted earlier (paragraphs3.02 and 3.14), the treatment plant is
being built in two phases with the second phase starting toward the end
of 1975. A continuous program of investigation, data collection and analysis
of water use and trends would be initiated promptly by MWWA to provide a
much better basis for pl. lning, and this would be monitored carefully during
the first years of the project. If the results of the water use control
program are better than expected and demonstrate that demand is substantially
less than predicted, part or all of the second phase of the water treatment
plant would be deferred to another future project. The portion of the Bank
loan required for the second phase (now estimated to be about US$4.0 million)
would be cancelled then if not required for other eligible project contracts.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the decision to proceed
witli phase two contracts will be made about July 1975, based on new demand
studies, and will be subject to the approval of the Bank.
4.11      Aside from the above question about capacity, the proposed project
is clearly the least cost solution to the problem of providing an adequate
public water supply system for metropolitan Bangkok.
Return on Investment
4.12      The incremental financial return on the 1973-82 time slciee of the
MWWA expenditures on expanded supply facilities, of which the present project
consti.utes roughly 90%, is calculated to be about 8% (Annexes 11 and 13).
Sensit-vity analysis indicates that the return could drop to about 7% if the
project costs exceed the estimates by 20%, and could increase to over 10%
if such costs were 20% lower than estimated. The return is not sensitive
to increases in operating expenses, but a decrease of 20% in revenues lowers
the rate of return to about 6%. The return on the project as a wtole, which
also includes investments in improved metering and billing, would be about 12%.
4.13      The above return estimates suggest that present water charges are
not too far out of line with the costs of providing improved service. They
do not provide the substantive justification for the project. The project



- 15 -
is the least cost means of providing a satisfactory water supply system for
the cultural, commercial and economic center of Thailand. The alternative,
which would he the indefinite continuation of the present deficiencies,
with their adlverse public health and economic implications, is not acceptable
to Thailand.
4                                        V.  THE BORROWER
The Borrower
5.01      The borrower would be the Metropolitan Water Works Authority (MWWA),
an autonomous body established under the Metropolitan Water Works Authority
Act of 1967, which took over the responsibility for water supply in an area
of 3,130 sq km including the four municipalities of Bangkok, Thonburi, Non-
thaburi and Samut Prakan (Annex 3 and Map IBRD-10208). The Act empowers MWWA
to borrow money subject to prior approval of the Council of Ministers when
in excess of Baht 5 million (US$0.2 million).
History of Operations
5.02      The history of MWWA and its predecessor organizations is marked
by rapid expansion in a generally unsuccessful effort to catch up with
demand and by the problems that go along with ungainly growth. Problems in
the technical area were compounded by gross deficiencies in administration
and accounting.
5.03      From its inception, MWWA has been a weak organization.  The tran-
sition from the earlier form of municipal operations to that of a public
utility was a difficult one. In the first few years the consolidation of
activities of the four independent systems proved to be largely super-
ficial in as much as no uniform procedures were adopted and work was carried
on, without overall direction, in much the same fashion as before. MWWA's
problems were attributable largely to the lack of trained manpower, low
staff morale, lack of strong management control, physical system deficiencies
and, until recently, a most uneconomic water tariff. The management con-
sultants (paragraph 5.14), engaged since January 1971, have helped consider-
ably to improve the situation. With continued management assistance which
MWWA has already decided to retain, and continuation of MWWA's own recent
efforts, it should be possible to build in the course of the next few years
a fairly efficient and financially independent institution.
Organization and Management
5.04      The MWWA Act, 1967 defines broadly areas of responsibility within
IWIA generally based on the principle of vesting (i) overall control and
responsibility for policy decisions in a Board composed of representatives
of various Government departments and the General Manager of MWWA, (ii) over-
all Government supervision of MWWA's activities through the Ministry of the
Interior, and (iii) responsibility for day-to-day management, in accordance



- 16 -
with Board policy and Government directives, in the General Manager. From
a strictly legal standpoint the Act provides a suitable framework for an
independent water supply utility. In the past, however, because of dependency
on government grants, most major decisions were made by special committees,
consisting of a variety of Government representatives. As MWWA establishes
its financial independence it should be able progressively to assert its
institutional autonomy. A modest beginning has already been made.
5.05      The present General Manager (since 1976) is corrpetent and experienced
and enjoys considerable support from the Government authorities. Under his
leadership, VWA is beginning to progress. lIowever, he will soon be reaching
retirement age and it is uncertain whether he will be given an extension of
serv_ce. Under the Act, the General Manager's appointment is to -be approved
by the Council of Ministers. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Bank would be consulted in advance about future appointments to the
General Manager's position.
5.06      MWWJA's organization chart, including a change for financial
management adopted in February 1973, is in Annex 14. The General Manager
is being assisted by three deputies - one for Engineering and Operations,
one 'or Administration and Services and the third for Finance, a new post.
Because of low salary grades, 1! MWWA has not so far succeeded in recruiting
a full time, permanent Deputy General Manager (Finance),  As a temporary
measure, in consultation with the Bank and ADB, a senior civil servant has
been appointed to this position on a part-time basis in addition to his duties
in the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB). To date, this
has oroved to be a very beneficial step for MW%TA, but knowing the importance
of the post, M4WWA is continuing its efforts to fill the position on a permanent,
full-time basis. Assurances that this will be accomplished by March 31, 1974
were obtained during negotiations. In view of the critical nature of all
the Deputy General Manager positions, assurances were also obtained that
the 3ank would be consulted in advance about future changes in appointment
to any of these posts.
5.07      MW!A has had problems filling other key positions, and was able
only recently to recruit the Chief of the Finance Divis,on, the Public
Relations Officer and the Budget Analyst.  However, three muiore positions
(Personnel Officer, Management Analyst and Legal Adviser) considered
important for strengthening MWWA are still vacant. MWWA appears confident
thal appointments to these positions will be made shortly.  MAMWA has been
quiize successful in filling engineering posts.
5. 0.6    MIA's present staff strength is about 4,100 (ITovem7ber 1972),
against a total of ,,521 sanctioned by its Board.  There is no good
justification for this large complement and thorough reviews are required.
Assurances were obtained uuring the negotiations that staff requirements and
1/   MWWA is in the midst of an overall salary review and intends shortly
to make revisions which would put MWWA on a more competitive recruiting
basis.



- 17 -
strength would be reviewed annually by MWWA in consultation with the Bank
and ADB, within six months of the close of each fiscal year,and that employ-
ment would be kept to a minimum consistent with the needs of the project
and sound operating practices.
5.09      Many of MWWIlA's professional and technical staff, although qualified
in other ways, lack experience with a well run water supply utility. Training
on the job is an essential component of each engineering and management con-
sulting contract. Additional opportunities for practical training are being
sought. During negotiations assurances were obtained that a detailed training
program will be worked out and implemented within 6 months of the date of the
loan and revised periodically as necessary, all in consultation with the
Bank. Among the possibilities being explored are arrangements for shor't term
visits by supervisory staff to the well established utility in Singapore.
The training costs are presently included in the costs of consulting services,
MWWA's engineering and operating costs and the foreign exchange contingency
allowance for Part A of the project.
Operation of the System
5.10      As in general management, MWWA has recently improved its efficiency
in various critical aspects of operations with the aid of consultants as fol-
lows:
(a) mapping and records of existing system;
(b)  leak detection and repairs;
(c)  operation of pumping and treatment facilities;
(d)  location and recording of service connections; and
(e)  meter installations.
MWWA recognizes that improvement of performance in these and other areas
must continue and be accelerated if good standards and project objectives
are to be achieved. Also needed is a good program of continuous monitoring,
reporting and control of groundwater resources in the metropolitan area
and a suitable agency should be assigned these responsibilities (Annex 3,
paragraph 10); assurances to this effect were obtained from the Government
during negotiations.
Financial Management
5.11      Major deficiencies exist in the area of accounting and financial
management and these have contributed to some of the problems of MWWA in
billing and collection of revenue. The management consultants have already
drafted the framework of a good general accounting code for MWWA. Now that
the new financial organization has been adopted by MWWA and staff gaps are
being filled, the processes of installation of the accounting system and
training, and the preparation and use of reports required for financial
management are to be implemented under the new management consulting



- 18 -
contract (paragraph 5.14). Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that a commercial system of accounting will be in substantial operation by
October 1, 1973.
Metering, Billing and Collection
5.12      MWWA's most critical deficiencies have been in the area of metering,
billing and collections. Over 900 personnel are employed for meter reading,
billing and collection of revenue. Billing is bi-monthly; the delivery of
bills and collection of revenue is mainly through full time bill collectors.
Most metering, meter reading, billing and collection procedures have been
grossly inefficient and ineffective. MWWA has an established policy to meter
all service connections, but in fact 60% of the meters do not function,
Estimates of water use for billing customers with defective meters have been
consistently low. Billing is slow and collection procedures are weak. The
results are that unaccounted-for water has been in the order of 60% to 65% of
total production. Bills are rendered six months late on the average and up
to two years in some cases. Some connections are never billed and many are
unrecorded. In effect, i4RWA has not been charging for most of its services.
5.13      Correction of this situation is the most critical and possibly the
most difficult aspect of this project. To achieve this objective the project
includes "Metering Impr vement" and "Revenue Improvement" programs designed
by the consultants. These programs aim toward: complete records of all
connections including classification of users; proper installation and main-
tenance of effective meters; satisfactory meter testing and repairs; reliable
meter reading on regular schedules; realistic estimates of water use at con-
nections without functioning meters; installation of efficient clerical,
reporting and recording procedures for production of bills, ordering replace-
ment of inoperative meters and producing up-to-date reports on water use and
the status of the meter reading/billing/collection cycle; and enforcement of
collections. The implementation procedure is to introduce these changes on
a district by district basis. Also, efforts will be concentrated first on
large water users. Metering will be selective leaving the least profitable
customers until later. A modest but promising start on these programs has
been made already. The consultants predict substantial completion of these
programs in 1975. At the time of negotiations, the work programs and
specific goals of accomplishment were discussed and commitments obtained
that there would be annual reviews. The results would be submitted to the
Bank and the ADB within four months of the close of each fiscal year and
revision of the work plans and goals made in consultation with the Bank and
ADB.
Management_ ConsultanLs
5.14      Booz, Allen and hamilton International Inc. (BAHINT) have been
assisting MWWA in its efforts to improve its management and financial adminis-
tration under a contract signed in September 1971 and completed in September
1971. The work of the consultants provided a valuable basis for MWWA's
own efforts to cope with many problem areas and MWWA has retained
BAHINT for a further 27 months commencing October 1972. An important



- 19 -
component of management consultancy services is the training of W-A's staff
so that they can take over and run the institution efficiently with a minimum
of outside help, after the present contract terminates in December 1974. The
foreign exchange element is proposed to be financed from the Bank loan.
Retroactive financing of about US$500,000 is proposed to cover foreign
exchange expenditures on the contract since October 1, 1972. During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that MWWA will continue to engage
management consultants, acceptable to the Bank, as required to assist MWWA.
Audit
5.15      According to the MWWA Act, WMWA shall have its accounts and finan-
cial statements audited annually by the National Audit Coulncil. So far no
such audits have been carried out and MEWA has yet to prepare its first set
of financial statements for proper submission to the Audit Council. This is
due to the fact that MWWA has been operating financially more or less as a
Government department.
5.16      During negotations agreement was reached that following the
implementation of commercial accounting procedures by MWWA during the fiscal
year ending September 30, 1973, MWWA's financial statements for that year
and for subsequent years would be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and that such statements, together with the auditor's report,
would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year. For this purpose it was further agreed that audit by the
National Audit Council would be acceptable to the Bank. However, if after
completion of the audit for FY 1975, the Bank considers that the National
Audit Council's audit needs strengthening to meet the Bank's requirements,
the Government and MWWA will take all necessary action to achieve the
required standards including engagement of commercial auditors to assist
the National Audit Council.
Insurance
5.17      M.-WA does not have any defined policy for insuring its property
against loss or damage. A plan for obtaining adequate insurance coverage
is being considered by MWWA and soon will be presented to the Bank and ADB
for comment. During negotiations assurances were obtained that MWWA would
make appropriate provisions for insurance.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Introduction
6.01      The accounting and financial branches of MWVA have been very weak
(paragraph 5.11). MWWA has not yet produced any audited Balance Sheets
(paragraph 5.15). Government has recognized MWWA's problems and deficiencies
and is now giving it strong backing particularly for management and financial
improvements. Actions already taken in strengthening the management and



- 20 -
proposed to be taken as a part of the project are expected to lay sound
foundations for developing a well run and viable utility.
Financial Position - Past and Present
6.02      On its formation in 1967 MWWA took over the assets and liabilities
of four separate water works (paragraph 5.01). The gross book value of fixed
assets thus assumed was Baht 1,329 million (US$63.9 million) and their net
depreciated value Baht 1,093 million (US$52.5 million). Over the next five
years ending September 1972 MWWA. added some Baht 312 million (US$15 million)
to its fixed assets, financed entirely by Government.
6.03      From its inception, MWWA has incurred cash losses in each of the
five years of its existence. Through FY 1972 (ending September 30, 1972)
these losses totaled Baht 107 million, all met by the Government. Including
depreciation, the operating deficits for the five years were of the order of
Baht 350 million. A proforma summarized income statement for the years
1968-1972 is at Annex 15.
6.04      These unsatisfactory financial results are attributable partly to
the large quantities of non-revenue (unaccounted-for) water and partly to
an uneconomic water tariff. About 60% of water produced earned no revenue
and of this, based on ield studies extending over 18 months, the consultants
estimate that distribution leakage does not exceed 10% of production which
is relatively good for a large system. Free supply of water for municipal
parks, firefighting, etc. is only about 2%.  The remaining 48% of production
has been lost through faulty metering and billing procedures (paragraph
5.12). There has been no leadership in the Finance Department and
certain key positions have remained unfilled. Action is now being taken
to remedy these shortcomings (paragraphs 5.06 and 5.07). With the assistance
of management consultants (BAHINT), MWWA has launched metering and revenue
improvement programs (paragraph 5.13). The target recommended by BAHINT
and adopted by MWWA is to achieve a gradual 8% yearly reduction in unaccounted-
for water bringing it down to about 22% by 1977. The target is not beyond
IMIA's capacity to reach but M$WWA's degree of success is extremely difficult
to predict. For this reason a more modest reduction of 3% in 1973, 7'% in
1974 and 5% annually in 1975 through 1979 has been assumed for financial
projections (paragraph 6.14). If this is achieved the unaccounted-for water
will come down to 25%7 in 1979. Ultimately MWWA ought to be able to attain
15% to 20%, typical of well run water utilities.
6.05      A major step to improve NWWA's financial position was taken by
Government in approving a new uniform rate schedule effective July 1, 1972
(paragraph 6.16). :n December 1972 the consultants estimated that the new
tariff will raise the average revenue per m3 of water from Baht 0.58 in 1972
to Baht 1.53 in 1973 and to Baht 1.71 by 1977. Billings for the 7 months
after the rate increase show an average of Baht 1.30 per m3 which has been
adopted for 1973. With the improvement in metering, meter reading and
billing procedures and increased water consumption by large consumers it is
estimated that the average rate will increase to Baht 1.44/u3 in 1974 and
to Baht 1.65/m3 by 1979. A rate increase of about 25% will be necessary
effective October 1, 1979 (paragraph 6.17).



- 21 -
6.06      IfWtA's two current loans from the Government (paragraph 2.10)
totaling not more than Baht 259.2 million (US$12.5 million) for "improvement
of the operation of MWWA" carry interest of 4% and are repayable in 40
semi-annual installments after a five-year grace period. The interest
accrued in the first five years is deferred and thereafter is payable in 40
semS-annual installments.  MWWA spent Baht 81 million from these loans in
1972, and expects to use the balance in 1973 and 1974.
6.07      The gross value of fixed assets of HzWWA at the end of FY 1972 is
about Baht 1,641 million (US$79 million). BAHINT has stated that with the
exception of land holdings N4WWA's records of ownership of fixed assets are
in reasonably good order and that MWWA takes a physical inventory of its fixed
assets every six months. With regard to land there is some confusion as to
exactly which parcels of land belong to MWWA; some identified parcels are
claimed by other government entities as well as by MfWWA. Although "revaluation
of assets" is in BAHINT's current terms of reference (paragraph 5.14), no
significant work on revaluation is justified since their depreciated value
is small compared to the proposed project investments. MWWA should, however,
establish an asset value, including work in progress, supported by appropriate
assets registers and depreciation schedules and adopt these in its opening
balance sheet for FY 1973. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
this would be done by December 31, 1973.
Financing Plan
6.08      The estimated "Sources and Application of Funds" statement of MWWA
for the years 1972-1982 is in Annex 17. The financing plan for the project
construction period (1973-1979) is summarized below:



- 22 -
Baht       US$        Percentage
-------------million----------
APPLICATION OF FJNDS
Capital Expenditures:
Part A of the project to be financed
by IBRD                                 2,921-       140.4         57.6
Part B of the project to be financed
by ADB                                  1,421         68.3         28.0
Interest during construction on IBRD
& ADB Loans                               390         18.8          7.7
Other construction by KWWA                   331/2       15.9          6.5
Total Capital Expenditures    5,063          243.4         99.8
Increase in cash balance                            10          0.5          0.2
Total                      5,073        243.9        100.0
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation                         1,714         82.4         33.8
Less: debt service requirements                  269         12.9          5.3
Net cash generation                              1,445         69.5         28.5
Borrowings:
IBRD Loan                                  1,144         55.0         22.6
ADB Loan                                     408         19.6          8.0
Prior Government Loans Unutilized            178          8.6          3.5
Government Loan for the Project            1,750         84.1         34.5
Total Borrowings                3,480        167.3         68.6
Government & Customer Contributions                148          7.1          2.9
Total                           5,073        243.9        100.0
/1   Excludes B 75 million expended before 1973.
/2   Includes an allowance of $ 116 million for expansions of MWWA's
separate systems (paragraph 2.07).
6.09      The proposed loan of US$55 million would cover about 23% of MWWA's
de-clopment program for 1973-79. The ADB loan would cover 8%, capital con-
tributions 3% and self-generated funds 28%. The balance of about 38% would
be provided by the Government.



- 23 -
6.10      The proposed terms of the Bank and ADB loans are each 26 years
with 6 year periods of grace. The assumed interest rates are 7-1/4% and
7-1/2% respectively.
6.11      Internal cash generation of Baht 1,714 million (US$82.4 million)
forecast during 1973-1979 would require a major effort on MWWA's part to
implement the programs described in paragraph 5.13. This will require con-
stant monitoring.  The loan documents require MWWA and Government to review,
in consultation with the Bank, at least three months before the beginning
of each fiscal year, NMWA's cash requirements for that year and the steps
required to ensure that its internal cash generation together with the
proceeds of the loans will be sufficient to cover these requirements.
Assurances were obtained from Government that should funds available to
MWWA be inadequate for completing the project, the Government would provide
such funds, or cause such funds to be provided, promptly as needed, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
6.12      The estimated amount of financing required from the Government
(Baht 1750 million)is assumed to be in the form of loans with the same
terms and conditions as the two earlier loans of 1971 and 1972, i.e., carry
interest at 4% and be repayable over 40 semi-annual installments after a
grace period of five years. Interest during the grace period would be
deferred and repaid in 40 semi-annual installments. Even though this rate
is lower than the cost of money in Thailand, it is considered reasonable in
view of the potential benefits of improved water supply operations in Bangkok,
the extremely weak financial position of MWWA, the very large investment
involved in the proposed development program and the large taxes on the
project (paragraph 3.06).
Financial Projections
6.13      The Estimated Income Statements, Sources and Application of Funds
Statements and Balance Sheets for 1972-1982 are in Annexes 16 through 18.
The assumptions for these financial forecasts are in Annex 19.
6.14      The projections indicate that during the project construction period
1973-1979 MWWA's annual rate of return on average net book value of fixed
assets in operation would be in the range of 4.2 to 9.0%. These forecasts
are based on the assumptions that MWWA would achieve a substantial reduction
in unaccounted-for water (paragraph 6.04) and that the new tariff effective
July 1972 would more than double the 1972 average revenue of Baht 0.58 per in3.
The projected rate of return up to 1979 should be considered satisfactory,
particularly in view of the cash deficits incurred by MWWA in the preceding
five years. After completion of the project an increase of about 25% in
the rates, effective October 1979, would be needed to cover the debt service
charges and cash requirements for expansion of services. The projections
show that with this increase, MWWA would be able to earn a rate of return of
about 7.9% in 1980, 8.4% in 1981 and 9% in 1982. A rate of return covenant
is discussed in paragraph 6.17.



- 24 -
Tariffs and Rate Covenant
6.15      Under the MWWA Act of 1967, IfWWA can set water rates, subject to the
prior approval of the Council of Ministers.
6.16      Annex 20 shows the water rates before and after the July 1, 1972
revision (paragraph 6.05).  Under the new tariff the free monthly supply of
6 m3 which was allowed in Bangkok and Thonburi only has been extended to
Nonthaburi and Samut Prakan. Another feature of the new rate structure is
that most consumers in Nonthaburi, as well as those using up to about 60 m3
monthly in Sanut Prakan and up to about 70 m3 in Thonburi, will now pay
lower water bills. But in Bangkok, which constitutes about two-thirds of
the metropolitan area and where most of the large industrial and commercial
users are located, the new rates will raise the water bills for monthly con-
sumption exceeding 12 m3 and earn substantial additional revenues for =,WA.
The new rates are still lower than those of all the Provincial Water Works
of PWWD (paragraph 2.12). The impact of the new tariffs, as well as of the
other improvement programs, on MW%tJA's financial position is extremely dif-
ficult to forecast with any degree of certainty. It is essential. therefore,
that a periodic rate review at intervals of not more tharn two years should
be made by Yfl7J!A to determine, irn consultation with the Bank, what changes,
if any, are needad in its rate structure and level of charges to meet its
financial requirement during the project construction period (paragraph 6.11).
The first review would be completed not later than in July 1974.  Government
has agreed to carry out any required changes in the rate structure
within six months after each review. No reduction in the present rates
would be permitted during the construction period. Assurances were obtained
on these points during the negotiations and suitable covenants incorporated
in the loan documents.
6.17      After completion of the project (beginning with October 1979)
tW'A has agreed to establish and maintain water rates at a level which will
generate sufficient revenues to cover operating costs, including depreciation,
plus a minimum return of 8% on the average net value of fixed assets in
operation. This rate of return is recommended after taking into consideration
the cash requirements of MWETA for meeting its debt service charges, estimated
at about Baht 330 million annually, as well as capital investments for minor
expansion of its services in the order of Baht 200 million every year, without
recourse to further borrowing until about 1982. The financial projections
show that a rate increase averaging about 25% would be needed effective
October 1979 to achieve this objective. A commitment to the rate of return
covenant was obtained from MW[,WA and Government during negotiations.
Debt Limitation
6.18      During negotiations, agreement was obtained that throughout tile
project construction period MWWA will not incur, without Bank approval, any
long-term debt in addition to that required under the agreed project
ffi.ancing plan.  For the remaining life of the loan, MWWA agreed that
additional long-term debt would not be incurred without Bank approval unless
net revenues for the previous year provide debt service coverage of at least



- 25 -
1.5 times maximum interest and amortization payments in any future year.
The expected net cash generation will provide debt service coverage of 1.7
times or more through 1982, except in 1979 when it is estimated to be about
1.4 times.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During loan negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) action toward resolution of the sewerage problems in the
Bangkok metropolitan area (paragraph 3.25);
(b) the initiation of a continuous program of investigation,
data collection and analysis of trends in water use and
demand for the purpose of planning economic future expansion
of the water supply system (paragraph 4.10);
(c) that the timing and content of the second phase of Part A
of the project would be determined on the basis of the
above demand analysis (paragraph 4.10);
(d) annual reviews and revisions of the metering improvement
and revenue improvement programs (paragraph 5.13);
(e) annual reviews of MWWA's cash requirements and the steps
required to ensure that available funds would be adequate
to cover MWWA's requirements (paragraph 6.11);
(f) water rate reviews and changes, if necessary, at intervals
of not more than two years during the project construction
period (paragraph 6.16); and
(g) an annual rate of return on net fixed assets in operation
of not less than 8% beginning October 1, 1979 (paragraph
6.17).
7.02      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be the
Government's authorization for MWWA to appoint the consultants required for
construction supervision of Part A of the project (paragraph 3.10).
7.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$55 million
equivalent for a term of 26 years including a grace period of six years.
June 8, 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
90                                                                                                                  f
THAILAND: BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPULATION DATA AND PROJECTIONS                                          /
(MILLIONS OF PERSONS)
RANGE OF ESTIMATES BY OTHERS   /
70 -                                                                                                                   14
/ ~I
60 -             LEGEND:                                                                                       f      12
CENSUS DATA AS ADJUSTED BY
POPULATION DIVISION, U.N. 119661                                   i/
a                             X ESTIMATE BY MINISTRY OF INTERIOR                                //    /         |
g:  50                                                                                       /                            1/ 4  0
5                            A  ESTIMATE BY CONSULTANTS                                       i                            10
O                             8 DATA FROM WORLD BANK                                    /d'                 /
O                             0 ATLAS OF 1972                                                      /              4,
z                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
OF                                                                                    ///                 /     A/
<  40                         * RESIDENT REGISTRATION RECORDS                      /U. /    R,/
-JO                                                                   //  ,@
THAILAND/2 2;  /             -
20                       _                                                 .                                                 z/ 
_                       ge,zy j l    ~~~~~~RANGE OF ESTIMATES FOR     4
^                      oS^/             ~~~~~~~~~~METROPOLITAN AREA
210
BANGKOK METR OPOLITAN AREA                    2
E  )(USE SCALE AT RIGHT
1920           1930           1940          1950          1960          1970          1980          1990          2000
YEARS
World Bank(-E7405(RI






ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Population Data and ProJections
TOTAL THAILAND (Millions of Persons)
--       Estimated-----
Year       Census2'        Max.   Consultants    Min.
1919        10.1
1929        12.1
1937        14.4
1947        18.5
1960        26.9
1968                                  33.6
1969                                  35. 
1970                                  36.2 i
1975                       42.0      41.0          40.0
1985                       57.0       54.0          50.0
2000                       90.0       78.0          70.0
BANGKOK METROPOLITAN AREA (Millions of Persons)
Consultants    Town & Country   Bangkok
R Registration    Design         Max.      Planning       Planning
Year  Censu v       Records       Estimate   Potential       Dot.         Division
1947 -   0.80
1952                 1.10
1955                 1.34
1960 -   1.74
1965                 2.46
1968                 2.78
1969                                 2.88       2.88                       2.80
1971                                                        3.20
1975                                 3.69   -   3.94 -       3.83          3.70
1980                                                        4.66
1985                                 5.66        6.49 -- 5.49              5.10
1990                                                        6.24
2000                                 9.92   -   14.6   -   7.29            6.50
2' Census data as adjusted per recommendations of United Nations
Population Division (1966).
2/ Estimate by Ministry of Interior on basis of residence registration
records.
#  Estimate by consultants based on 3.0% per year annual growth since 1960.
/ World Bank Atlas of 1972.
April 18, 1973



THAILA.ND
BANCKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Summary of Population and Area Data Used for Project Planning
YEAR                                              1919        1929         1937         1947         1960         1969                 1975          1985         2000
THAILAND
Total Population (millions)/'                    10.11       12.13        14.41        18.46        26.86        35.00                41.00         54.00        78.00
DOTAL MWWA AREA (4 changwats) /2
Total Population (thousands) /3                    752         971        1,135        1,560        2,674        3,944                4,920         7,305       11,820
MUNICIPALITIES IN MWWA AReAL4
Total Area (sq im) A-                                            -            -         97.6        178.2        300.4                300.4         410.o        663.0
Totae  Population (thousands)                       _            _           _           801        1,744        2,875                3,691         5,661        9,920
(% of Thailand)                            -            -            -          4.3%         6.5%         8.2%                  9.0%         10.5%        12.6%
AREAS OUTSIDE MUNICIPALITIES SERVED BY
MVWA CENTRAL SYSTEM
Total Population (thousands)                        _-                                    -            -            74                   200           418          -0-
1949
MWWA CENTRAL SERVICE SYSTEM
Total Area Served (sq km)                           -            -                        -            -           182                   362           570          815
Population served:
Inside Municipalities (thousands)                -            -           _           181          963        1,805                2,553         4,290        8,512
('9 of municipal population)               -            -            -            20%          55%         63%                   69%           76%          86%
Outside Municipalities (thousands)               -            -           _            -            -            41                  134            300          -0-
(% of population in area served)                 -            -            -                   -           55%                   67%           72%          -
Total Population Served (thousands)              -            -            -          181          963        1,846                2,687         4,591        8,512
(% of total in service area)               -            -            -            20%          55%         63%                   69%           75%          86%
SEPARATE WATER SYSTEMS /6
Total Population (thousands)                                     _-                                     -           44                    76           161          305
Population Served (thousands)                       _            _            _            _            _           11                    38           100          225
(%of total)                                -            -            -            -            -            26%                  50%           62%          74%
/1  Thailand population data for 1919, 1929, 1937, 1947 and 1960 are census figures adjusted according to the recommendations of the Population Division,
United Nations, as given in a paper "An Evaluation of the Demographic Statistics of Thailand", 1966. The 1969 estimate is based on the 1960 adjusted
census data and the assunption of 3.0X  annual g,rowth to 1969.
/2  The total area for which the MWWA has authority to provide public water supplies comprise Phra Nakorn (including Bangkok), Thonburi, Nonthaburi and
Sanut Prakan.
t Census data for years 1919 through 1960 were aijusted as for the national population.  The 1969 population estimate is an adjustment of the residence
registrati-s records qs of December 31, 1968.
/4  'the municipalities within the MWWA to which m.st of MWIA's water service is provided are Bangkok, Thonburi, Nonthab,ri and Samut Prakan.
'1 Areas 1) the municipalit'es are those listed a- official in 194'7, 1960 and 1969.  Future i,-creases are predicted whet estimated p-pulation densities
exceel 14,000 to 17,000 persons per sq kT.
/6  Separate water systems are those f-r or.mun' t:es nst ser-vei U'-,. cestal water system  b,t are within the MWWA arei.
April 11, 5't-



ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Water Supply System
General
1.        Under the Metropolitan Water Works Authority Act of 1967, MWWA
is responsible for the public water supply systems in four changwats
(provinces), as shown on Map IBRD-10208, with a total area of 3,130 km2
and an estimated 1970 population of about 4 million. However, MWWA's
existing water supply and distribution systems serve only the central urban
area of Metropolitan Bangkok (Bangkok, Thonburi, Nonthaburi and Samut
Prakan) which is referred to as the Central Service System (area of 300.4
km2 and 1970 population about 3 million) plus nine smaller communities
(referred to as Separate Systems). The areas and populations pertinent to
the MWWA water supply systems are given in Annex 2. The major features of
the existing MWWA systems are shown in Map IBRD-10209.
2.        The part of the Central Service System which serves Bangkok and
Thonburi is the only part which uses a surface water source. Groundwater is
a supplementary source for these two municipalities and the only source
for Nonthaburi, Samut Prakan and the nine separate systems.
Surface Water Supply and Transmission
3.        The surface water supply is taken from the Chao Phya River at
an intake at Sam Lae, situated about 35 km north of Bangkok's municipal
boundary (Map IBRD-10209). At Sam Lae, the river water is pumped into
Bang Luang Reservoir, a former oxbow of the river about 10 km long, and
then transported to the Bangkok water treatment plant complex at Sam Sen
through a 25 km unlined canal, Klong Prapa.
4.        The water in Klong Prapa passes under three major transportation
and irrigation klongs by means of three-barrel inverted siphons (the Rangsit,
Bang Khen and Bang Sue siphons). The Bang Sue siphon restricts flow to
the Bangkok water treatment plants and a new parallel siphon is under
construction.
5.        Along Klong Prapa at Bang Sue, a pumping station provides low
lift pumping facilities to increase the raw water flow to the Bangkok
treatment plant. The station also contains high lift units to pump through
two parallel pressure mains, 11.2 km long, across the Chao Phya River to the
Thonburi water treatment plant.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        With improvements substantially completed in 1972, the raw water
system has a reliable capacity rated at about 780,000 m3/day. This is
sufficient for the existing surface water treatment plants.
7.        The Chao Phya River originates in northern Thailand and flows
750 km to the Gulf of Thailand, having a drainage area of 177,000 km2.
It is used extensively for navigation, irrigation and power generation.
Until recently the minimum flow of the river in Baagkok was as low as
25 m3/sec. For such low flows saline intrusion would reach the water
supply intake at Sam Lae.  However, the minimum flow is being increased as
large upstream dams and storage capacity are completed. The Royal Irriga-
tion Department has estimated that future minimum flows at Bangkok would
be at least 120 m3/sec which would be more than adequate to meet Bangkok's
raw water requirements of 70 m3/sec in the year 2000.
8.        Raw water quality at the intake is acceptable even though
upstream activities result in pollution of the river. Future upstream
development will increase the potential pollution. However, higher minimum
flows will increase available dilution and also the Government of Thailand
is planning to exert controls on water pollution. The combined effect
is expected to be raw water quality at the intake about the same or better
than in 1970.
9.        The open raw water transmission system is subject to potentially
dangerous pollution from navigational use of Bang Luang Reservoir and
from resident population along the route of the system. An MWWA program
is underway to wall and fence Klong Prapa to help protect the raw water
supply from surface drainage and wastes. Recommendations have been made
by the consultants to strictly control access including prohibition of
swimming, fishing and navigation along the entire route of the raw water
canals.
Groundwater
10.       About one-third (variously estimated at 330,000 to 400,000 m3/day)
of MWWA's present water supply is groundwater. MWWA now has about 180 opera-
tional tubewells. Private tubewells are estimated to be pumping an additional
250,000 to 300,000 m3/day. This large scale withdrawal of groundwater by
public and private tubewells, which has accelerated dramatically since 1955,
exceeds the natural recharge capability of the aquifers with attendant
problems of rapidly falling groundwater levels and increasing chlorides and
iron content of the water. This has led to abandonment of many wells
(including one-third of all public wells constructed since 1955), particularly
in concentrated areas of pumping in the southern portions of Bangkok and
Thonburi. However, properly designed, constructed and spaced tubewells can
still be expected to supply water in northern and eastern areas of Bangkok
and north of Thonburi. For the medium- and long-term future, effective use
of the groundwater resource requires systematic monitoring of groundwater
l_vels, withdrawals and quality (procedures which have been lacking in the
past) and the prompt imposition of controls over the points and amaunts of
extraction.



/
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Treatment Plants
11.       The Bangkok water treatment plant at Sam Sen is a complex of
10 plants with individual design capacities ranging from about 30,000
to 173,000 m3/day. The first plant is more than 50 years old; the most
recent was constructed in 1963. Total design capacity is about 547,000
m3/day but in 1969 maximum reliable output of the complex totalled only
480,000 m3/day. Improvements in the physical facilities and operating
procedures were recommended by CDM and carried out in 1971 and 1972. Thus,
by the end of 1972, total reliable output has been increased to at least
650,000 m3/day and is expected by the consultants to reach 680,000 m3/day;
maximum output could be about 708,000 m3/day.
12.       The Thonburi water treatment plant, constructed in 1963, has a
design capacity of 172,800 m3/day. Until completion in November 1971 of
a second raw water pressure main from Bang Sue (paragraph 5), the plant
capacity was limited to 86,400 m3/day. Also completed in 1971 was a
50,000 m3/day temporary raw water connection to the Bangkok Noi Canal. MWWA
now rates the Thonburi plant at 180,000 m3/day.
13.       Treatment processes at all of the treatment plants comprise
sedimentation, rapid sand filtration and chlorination. Four of the older
Bangkok plants have horizontal flow sedimentation units. All of the other
plants, including Thonburi, have solids contact type clarifiers of various
ages and designs. The rapid sand filters are also of various designs.
However, all consist of a single media of relatively coarse sand and are
designed to operate at filtration rates of about 4.8 m/hr (about 2 gpm/sq ft).
All but one of the plants use air and water filter backwash systems.
14.       Treated water storage capacity at the Bangkok plants is very
limited; effective capacity is only about 30,000 m3 or about one hour of
reliable plant output. The Thonburi plant has treated water storage
capacity of 18,000 m3.
15.       The present treatment plants are capable of producing water of
acceptable quality in accordance with Thai drinking water standards (similar
to the World Health Organization International Standards), but in practice
the performance of the plants has, in the past, fallen short of their
capabilities.
Estimated Present and Future Production Capacity
of Existing Facilities
16.       During 1968 and 1969, CDM and MWWA conducted extensive tests of
the real capacity of existing surface water facilities. MWWA's tubewell
system was evaluated also, but less reliably because new wells are added
and older ones abandoned almost continuously. The estimated total production
capacity in 1969 was about 998,000 m3/day including about 400,000 m3/day
of tubewell capacity (a peak). Actual performance in 1970-1972 was
influenced by decreases in reliable tubewell capacity (to 330,000 or
350,000 m3/day) and increases in treatment plant capacity. MWWA's total
expected reliable production capacity in 1973 is 1,183,000 m3/day.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
17.       Total reliable productive capacity of existing facilities is
expected to remain at about 1,183,000 through 1976. Some of this capacity
will come from new tubewells constructed during the period to maintain
groundwater production capacity at about 330,000 m3/day. Starting in
1977, when the first production elements of the proposed project would
come into use, MWWA use of groundwater would be gradually reduced and
discontinued by 1990. The load placed on existing treatment plants probably
would also be reduced somewhat in 1977 because of the age of those facilities.
The estimated future contribution of existing facilities to total reliable
production capacity is as follows (Annex 10):
Surface Water
Year                     Treatment Plants      Tubewells       Total
_______-------m3/day (000)-------- --
1973-1976                      853                330          1,183
1977                           823                300          1,123
1978                           823                250          1,073
1980                           823                150            973
1985                           823                 75            898
1990                           823                  0            823
Distribution and Stor-ge
18.       The first water pipes were installed in Bangkok about 1914.
Starting in 1952 the rate of installation of mains increased sharply to
average about 40 km per year. The peak rate was 215 km in 1965. The
total length of water mains of 100 mm or larger diameter was about 1,110 km
in January 1969. 1/ Contracts for an additional 83 km of mains were
awarded in 1971. The materials used for pipelines are predominantly
galvanized iron in the smaller sizes, asbestos cement in the intermediate
sizes and bituminous lined cast iron in the larger sizes. Steel pipelines
are used for most klong and bridge crossings. Prestressed concrete pressure
pipe is being used on some of the new large diameter pipelines.
19.       A leakage survey in 1969 indicated that leakage in the distribution
system (upstream of the meters) totalled about 7% of the total water produced
at the generally low pressures (average 0.5 kg/cm2) then prevailing. This
is certain to increase as production capacity and system pressures increase.
A continuous leak detection and repair program initiated by the consultants
in 1969 was transferred to MWWA in 1970. It is working fairly effectively
and aims toward coverage of the total pipeline system at least annually with
more frequent attention in critical areas.
1/   60 mm pipelines are in use in many areas of Bangkok, but mains of this
size are too limited in capacity to be considered as effective distribu-
tion components.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
20.       Distribution storage is provided by 11 elevated tanks with a total
capacity of aboutF 16,500 m3. Only about 500 m3 (in Nonthaburi and Samut
Prakan) is effective because system pressures in Bangkok and Thonburi are
too low to fill the eight larger tanks which have never been used. For all
practical purposes, therefore, MWWA has no distribution storage capacity
from which to meet peaks in demand.
Service Connections and Metering
21.       Service connections totalled 269,400 as of January 31, 1972. The
average yearly increase during the prevsious 10 years was about 14,000.
MWWA policy is to meter all connections. Extensive studies by the consultants
in 1968 and 1969 disclosed, however, that about 60% of the installed
meters were not functioning and many others were operating poorly. Under
service conditions at the time, average meter life was only about two
years depending on the type and location of the meter, and meter repair
facilities were completely inadequate. About 30 different makes of meters
from at least six different countries are being used.
22.       Based on recommendations by BAHINT and CDM, a Metering Improvement
Program (MIP) was initiated by MWWA in 1971 with the objective of correcting
the above described situation and to accurately determine water use by MWWA
customers. This program got off to a fair start in November 1971 and will be
carried on and completed as part of the proposed project.
Extent and Quality of Service
23.       Out of a total 1970 population of about 3 million in MWWA's
central service area, an estimated 2 million were served by water supply
connections. The productive capacity of the water system in metropolitan
Bangkok increased at the average annual rate of about 12%/year between 1960
and 1973, but the extent of the distribution system and the numbers of
people served has also increased rapidly and water demand has seldom been met.
24.       The degree of the water problems experienced almost continuously
in the area for many years has varied from year to year. The situation has
improved somewhat since 1969 due to works completed in 1970-1972. However,
low pressures are general throughout the system and a complete lack of
water for hours, or even days, is experienced in portions of the systems
which are remote from the treatment plants and tubewells. The consultants
have estimated that less than 20% of the service area has adequate flows
and pressures.
25.       One result of low pressures and intermittent flows is that storage
maintained by customers averages about 1 m3 per connection and may total
20% of the MWWA's average daily production capacity at a cost substantially
greater than an equivalent amount of storage in the distribution system
itself. Another result is that the MWWA system can seldom be used as a
source of water for fire fighting. In general, the public has to look
to other sources, either unsafe or comparatively expensive or both, to meet
part or all of their water requirements. This is particularly true of low
income population.
June 8, 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Description
General Design Aspects
1.        The project is designed to give a total reliable capacity of
about 2,273,000 m3/day of treated water pumped into the distribution system
from existing and new facilities by mid 1978. This total capacity would
decline gradually starting in 1979 as groundwater use by MWWA facilities is
phased out and the reliable capacity of existing surface water treatment
and pumping facilities is reduced by aging. The total capacity of the
system is expected to be adequate until about 1982 or perhaps as late as
1985, depending on the trend of demand, when Stage II surface water treatment
and transmission capacity should go into operation.
2.        The standard base for the water supply design is the average
daily demand, or average annual demand divided by 365. Maximum daily
demand is the largest volume of water expected to be required in a 24-hour
period of the year, and the raw water, treatment and transmission facili-
ties are designed to meet this requirement. Maximum or peak hour demand
is the largest volume of water required in a 60-minute period during the
year. A distribution main is designed for the peak hour demand in the
area served by the main, drawing in part from distribution storage.
3.        There are no records to use for determining the actual relationship
of maximum daily and peak hour demands to average daily demand in Bangkok,
because the water system has not met those demands. The consultants was
forced to rely on their evaluation of the primary factors which cause
demand maximums and peaks. From that study the consultants concluded that
for design purposes:
(i) maximum daily demand is 1.25 times average daily demands; and
(ii) peak hour demand is 1.7 times average daily demand.
4.        The above ratios are judged to be sound bases for design of
the project with due consideration of economy on the one hand and reliability
in meeting physical project objectives on the other.  The use of maximum
daily demand for design of raw water, treatment and transmission components
(rather than allowing service failures during such times) is particularly
justified for Bangkok because there appear to be extended periods of up to
three months when this demand may be equaled or approached almost every
day. The lowest conceivable ratio of maximum daily to average daily demand
for systems of this size is about 1.15. However, as shown in Annex 10,
should 1.15 prove to be the correct ratio, the project designed on the basis



ANNEX 4
Page 2
of the 1.25 ratio would have excess capacity to meet demand requirements for
only one additional year. During construction and imnediately after
comp7etion of the project, better operating data would be collected and
analyzed to mal-2 a more reliable determination of the maximum daily and peak
hourly demand ratios which would be used on design of further system
expansions.
5.        Another design dec4sion which influences prcvect costs is the
water pressure provided in the distribution system.  For reasons or economy,
the project is designed to provide a minimum pressure of 1i.0 kg/cm2 at
customers' ground floor taps tAroughout the distribution system, under condi-
tions of peak demand except when there are concurrent heavy demand for
fire fighting. A ground level pressure of 1.0 kg/cm2 is enough to supply
water to the third level of buildings with adequate plumbing although the
pressure would be low. Heavy demands for fire fig1iting would occur for
limited periods and the detrimental effect on customer service would
normally be understood and tolerated.  Design of t1ie system for peak demand
plus fire flows would add considerably to costs and is not considered
justifiable a.- this ti-me.
6.        The transmission and cistri ulon systemas are planned on the basis
of 15 districts, eaacs. wr h approxinwtely the same water demand by the year
2000.  Three of the ' stricts dvould be served directly fro.c distribution
pumping at Thonburi, Jam Sen and the ne' Bang  hrien treatment plants.  Twelve
districts would be served from distribution centers (reservoir-pump station
complexes) located throughout t-he area.  Dour of these would be constructed
as part oF the project.
7.        Most components of the project contain elements wdlth more capacity
than strictly needed for the lmmediate objectives of the project.  This is
particularly true of hydraulic conduits and butldings (such as control and
administration buildings at the treatment plant and pumping statior struc-
tures), where the engineers have concluded that it would not be physically
feasible or economic to make additions o- construct parallel facilities for
each future construction stage.
8.        The principal details of the physical components of Part A of the
projiect are given in tabular form in the balance of this annex.
June 8, 1973



THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Description - Part A
Project Element                                                    Description                                                       Remarks
PART A (Bank Financing)
I. Raw Water Facilities
a) Sam Lae Intake and Pumping Station                      - mechanically cleaned bar racks                                 - Existing pump station with 3, 3m3/sec pumping units
- 4 horizontal, split case, axial flow, 6 m3/sec                   would remain in service.
pumps with adjustable impellers and about 350                  - Until completion of project, up to 4 m3/sec of raw
horsepower electric motors                                       water to meet present requirements to be drawn by
- maximum pumping head, 3m                                         gravity from high level irrigation canal (nlong
- station  constructed for 5 pumping units                         Prame Pracha Korn) of Royal Irrigation Department.
- Raw water puming capacity on cpletion of project
- small engine driven generator set for emergency                  would be 24 Im/sec (2,100,000 m3/day) with one
power for auxiliaries and lighting                               existing and one new pumping unit in rqserve.  Cap-
acity includes alloweace for 122,000 m /day losses
in transmission and at water treatment plants.
- Ultimate pumping installation would be 13 units at
6 m/sec plus 3 existing 3 m3/sec units to weet pro-
jected raw water requirements of about 70 ma/sec in
year 2000 with 2 new units and 2 gxisting units in
reserve   At that stage enlargement of intake channel
required.
b) Raw Water Transmission Conduits
1) Sam Lae to Bang Luang Reservoir                      - dredging of earthen part of channel to enlarge                 - Additional dredging required in future construction
exisTing cross sectional area of 60 m2 to about                  stageF until ultimate cross sectional area reaches
72 m                                                             180 m<.
2) Bang Luang Reservoir                                 - dredging of new navigational channel and use of                - No additional dredging required for future.
dredged material as earth barrier between surface
water supply and navigational channel
3) Klong Prapa from Bang Luang Reservoir                - excavation of existing earth canal to obtain                   - Capapity on completion of project would be about
to Bang Khen Water Treatment Plant Site                trapezoidal cross section with bottom width of                   24 m5/sec (2,100,000 m3/day).
10 m, depth of 4 m and 1:2 side slopes                         - Further excavation by dredging required for future
construction stages to attain cross sectional area
ultimatel-Y of 131 a2.
- The canal would not be lined at any stage.  Periodic
dredging would be required to maintain capacity.
4) Klong Prapa from Bang Khen to San Sen                - continuation of present MWWA program to construct                                                                              a'
Water Treatment Plant                                  walls and fences along canal whiqh would have
capacity of 11 m3/sec (950,000 m /day) to Bang
Sue, where the Thonburi surface supply is with-
drawn, and 9 m3/sec (780,000 m3/day) to Sam Sen



Pr ect Element                                                     Description                                                      Remarks
5) Rangs t Siphon                                    - new, 4 barrel, 36 m3/sec (3,100,000 a3/day)                  - Because of very difficult construction conditions,
siphon under Klong Rangsit                                    new siphons would be built in 2 stages, irstead of
3, to meet requirements in the yeas 2000 (70 m /sec
or 6,050,000 m /day.
- Oldest existing siphon (capacity 3 m3/sec) would be
abandoned upon completion of project because of poor
structural condition. Other existing siphon (capacity
7 m3/sec) eventually would be held in reserve.
II.  Bang Khen Water Treat.ent Plant                          - Plant capacity for maximum sustained reliable                - Some major hydraulic conduits, pumping station
output would be 1,20O,000 m3/day constructed in               structures and other buildings would have excess
2 stages (800,000 mx/day and 400,000 m3/day),                 capacity to accomodate some future plant expansions.
- Ultimate plant capacity would be 4.8 million m3/day
constructed in 4 modules, eac  of which could be
developed mainly in 200,000 a/day increments.
a) Raw Water Intake and Screens                          - short raw water canal connection from Klong                  - Initial installed capacity about 2.4 million m3/day.
Prapa and mechanically cleaned, vertical,
coarse bar racks
b) Raw Water Pumping Station                             - 4, horizontal, mixed flow, electric motor driven            - Rated capacity of station would be 1,250,000 m3/day
pumping urits with variable propellers or speed               with 1 large unit in reserve.
controls                                                    - Smaller unit would be replaced in future to increase
- pumping head frDm 8 to 12 m                                   rated capacity to 1,500,000 m3/day.
- 3 of pumping units at 500,000 m3/day capacity               - Station structure adequate for 6 large pumps.
with 1,00Q horsepower motors and 1 of mnits at              - Ultimate pumping installation, 12 large units with
250,000 mi/day capacity                                       total rated capacity of 5.0 million mi/day with 2
units in reserve.
c) Water Treatment Units
1) Clarifiers                                         - 6 circular, solids contact units at 200,000 m3/day           - Ultimate plant would have 24 clarifiers at 200,000
capacity each                                                 m3/day.
- 4 units constructed first phase and 2 anits,                - Initial influent channel from raw water pumping
phase two                                                      station adequate for 12 units.
- Clarifiers constructed above ground.
- Solid contact process would be of slurry recirculation
type similar to that used successfully at most existing
MWWA treatment plants.                                 2
-Loading rate 70 rmA per minute (2,400 gailons per ft
per day).



Project Element                                              Description                                                Remarks
2) Filters                                         - 16, 75,000 m3/day, 2 compartment,dual media, rapid        - Ultimate plant would have 64 filters in blocks
sand filters with air/water backwashing                     of 8 each (a further subdivision to 4 units each
- 10 units constructed first phase and 6 units in             is possible).
second phase                                              - Design lolding rate would be 200 mm per minute
(5 gpm/ft ) but hydraulic capacity adequate for up
to 8 gpm/flt2.
- Filter media would be anthracite coal and sand.
- Simple float controlled effluent valves would main-
tain constant water levels in the filters. Filter
effluents would be metered.
- Backwash water would be pumped.
3) Filtered Water Reservoirs                       - 2 units at 60,000 m3 each                                 - Design provides for filtered water storage of 10%
of maximum reliable plant capacity.
- Ultimate plant would have 8 reservoirs with total
capacity of 480,000 m3.
4) Chemicals                                       - plant would include facilities for storing,
preparing and feeding alum, lime, polyelectrolyte
coagulant aids, chlorine and potassium permanganate
5) Sludge and Washwater Lagoons                    - 2 shallow earth lagoons at 150,000 m3 each to store       - Design provides for 5% of plant intake to be
clarifier sludge and filter washwater                       wasted in filter wash and clarifier suidge.
Lagoons would be periodically dewatered and
cleaned after prolonged settling of waste.
- Ultimate plant would have four lagoons at 150,000 m3
each.
- Lagoon capacity for project may be reduced in final
design to about 75,000 m3.
6) Transmission Pumping Station                    - 4 horizontal, split case, electric motor driven            - Rated capacity of station would be 1,080,000 m3/day
pumps                                                       with 1 large unit in reserve.
- maximum pumping head, 35 meters                           - Small unit would be replaced in future with large
- 3 of units at 430,000 m3/day with 2,300 horse-              unit to give rated capacity of 1,290,000 m3/day.
power motors and 1 unit at 220,000 m /day                 - Station structure adequate for 6 large units.
capacity                                                  - Ultimately there would be 12 large units with total
- alternate bids to be received on constant speed             rated capacity of 4.3 million m3/day with 2 units
and variable speed drives                                   in reserve.
- Individual pump discharges metered.
- Station would draw from filtered water reservoir
and discharge to treated water transmission conduits.
7) Local Distribution Pumping Station              - 3, variable speed pumping units at 160,000 m3/day          - A pumping station at the water treatment plant to
capacity plus 1 unit at 80,000 m3/day                       supply distribution needs in the area of the plant          ><
- 1 of larger pumps would be diesel engine driven             and the needs of the plant itself for various uses
and the others, electric motor iriven                       except filter wash water.



ProJect Element                                                 Description                                                   Remarks
7) Local Distribution Pumping Station                - macimum pumping head about 50 meters                        - Station would draw from filtered water storage and
(continued)         - small elevated storage tank                                 ~~~~~~discharg  into local trunk mains and the plant dis-
ntinued                                     - small elevated storage tak                                    tribution networt.
- Rated capacity of station would be 240,000 m3/day to
meet peak hourly demsn with I large electric motor
driven and the diesel engine driven units in reserve.
- One large electric motor driven unit could be
eliminated in final design.
- Ultimate station would comprise 3 or 4 electric
units and 1 diesel with total reliable capacity of
480,000 m3/day with 1 or 2 units in reserve.
8) Adinistrati n and Service Buildings               - administration and control building                         - This would be center for treatment plant operations
and Staff Housing                                                                                                 and for control of entir  surface water, treatment
plant and treated water transmission systems.
- service buildings                                          - Laboratory and vehicles maintenance building
- Workshop and parts storage building
- Chemical building
- staff housing
9) Instrumentation and Controls                      - metering at the raw water, transmission and                 - Plant design would utilize minimum amount of
distribution pumps and the filter effluents                  instrumentation required to make most effective use
-Sam La  and dstribuion puping sationsof treatment plant components and chemicals. Essen-
Sas Lae and  distribution pub ping stations b                  tial instruments and controls would be restricted to
throughout system toll enter through direct                   simple mechanical or electrical types.
line telephone connections to those stations                - Existing Sam Sen and Thonburi treatment plants may not
be directly connected to new treated water transmis-
- new water treatment plant would be operated as                sion system and will be operated fairly independently
balance between distribution centers and raw                 to serve needs in their distribution areas.
water transmission
III.  Transmission Conduits                                   - 5 contracts for construction of 31.7 km of tunnel           - Depth 17 to 22 meters below ground in stiff to hard
of equivalent diameters from 2.0 m to 3.4 m, with             clays. At this depth, interference avoided with
auxiliary structures such as shafts, isolating                almost all existing or possible future underground
valves and provisions for bulkheads, as follows:              structures including utilities, possible mass transit
Diameter      length                               facilities and pile foundations.
2.0 m       b.km                               - Borings being made entire length as basis for final
2.2 m       4.50 km                              depth and aligraent design decisions.
2.5 a       2.90 km
2.8 a.      7.30 km- Alternate sections designed for competitive bidding:
3.0 m       1.77 km                              circular for boring machines and equivalent egg
3.4 m       8.50 km                              shaped for hand mining.
- Ultimate system constructed over 25 year period with         !i
9 spurs, of 2.0 to 4.6 m equivalent diameter tunnels
with total length about 85 km.
- Hydraulic grade would be about 30 m above ground at
transmission pump station.



Project Element                                                      Description                                                     Remarks
Ut. Transuission Oonduits (continued)                                                                                         - Capacity to meet msxcimus daily demand in each
service district.
- Sconomic size and location to give least total
eapital and operating costs using 8% discount rate.
n   Ground leavl Reservoirs and Distribution Pumping         - 4 distribution centers connected to transission               - Systex by year 2000 would include 12 distribu-
Stations (Distribution Centers)                           tunnels and discharging to the distribution system              tion centers, each about equivalent to the 4
- A surge tower, twin ground level reservoirs and a               that would be constructed under the project.
pumping station would be constructed at each center           - Project would be conatructed in two phases of
as follows:                                                     two units each.
Site         Reservoirs       PLmping Units
(sax. ater      (50   head and
surface elev.   capacity in 000 s3)
at 4o a)
Tha Phra         2 units at    1 diesel at 170
20,000 m3     3 variable speed at 170
1 variable speed at 120
Phahon Yothin                   1 diesel at 170
2 variable speed at 170
2 variable speed at 100
Lqmpini Park                    1 diesel at 150
4 variable speed at 150
Klong Toey       2 units at    1 diesel at 140
15,000 a3     2 variable speed at 140
2 variable speed at 100
April 11, 1973






ANNEX5
THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Part A
Local   Foreign             Local   Foreign
Currency Exchange  Total  Currency Exchange   Total
----Million Baht--- -- ----Million USS------ -
Raw Water                               54       25        79      2.6      1.2        3.8
Water Treatment Plant Phase I          282       280      562     13.5     13.5       27.0
Water Treatment Plant Phase II          72        73      15       3-5       3.5       7.0
354      353      707     17.0      17.0      34.0
Tunnels Phase I                        403      196       599     19.4      9.4       28.8
Tunnels Phase II                       111        54      165     5j3       2.6        7.9
514      250      764      24.7     12.0      36.7
Pump Stations & Reservoirs Phase I      83       89       172      4.0      4.3        8.3
Pump Stations & Reservoirs Phase II n           100       199      4.8      4.8        9.6
182      189      371       8.8      9.1      17.9
Sam Sen Reservoirs                      37         9       46      1.8      0.4        2.2
General Use Equipment                   18       27        45      0.9      1.3        2.2
Land                                   157       -        157      7.5      -7.5
Sub-Total                       1,316      853    2,169      63.3     41.0     104.3
Contingencies:
Physical                            108       73      181       5.2      3.5        8.7
Price                                99       72       171      4.7      3.5        8.2
Sub-Total                       1,523      998    2,521      73.2     48.0     121.2
Engineering Consulting:
Design Tunnels                        8       10        18      0.4      0.4        0.8
Design Others                        41       34        75      2.0      1.6        3.6
Supervision & Advisory Services    152       124       276      7.3      6.0      13.3
MWWA Engineering                        61       -         61      2.9       -         2.9
Management Consultants                  22        23       45      1.1      1.1        2.2
TOTAL                           1,807    1,189    2,996      86.9     57.1    L4_4=0
June 6, 1973



THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PRHJECT
Construction Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR             1973               1974                      1975                     1976                        1977                      1978
JA S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F MA M J J A S O ND JFMAMJJ A S    N D JF M A M J J A S O N DJ F M A M J J A S O N D
PROJELCT MONTH         123 41                                              25 6171 1                                                                                       .      7*P
FISCAL YEAR            1973 |71974                               1975            j          1976                      1977                      1978
Supply System  - Samlae Pumps                                 A  I T        E
- Samlae Substation                                          A    T      E _
- Ssalae General             A                   PQ     T                                                                                                                              LEGEND
- Klong PrapL                                                                                       -GE
- Rangsit Siphon                                  1                                                                                                                              A -Advertise
Bang Kh~en WTP  -Pumps                                         A                                                                                                                                  NP- Pre qualify,
B  Clarifiers                                 A | T                                                                                                                              T - Tender
- Subs .ation                                               , A                B T   _- -                  I -                                                                   E - Evaluation
- Genesl (1 )                          A   P       T                   _                                           E                                                             C - Construction
I                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S - Shop Drawing
Tunnels Section 1                                              APQ         T      S                     C                                                                                         F- Fabricate
2                                            A !PQ        T              ______                    _____                _I -Install
X ~~~3                                                       A1IPQ  1 T_  E_ __
i   4                                            ~~~~~~~~A1IPQ    I T F E    ___        _____4
Pump Stations (2)   _ PUPS                                     A   I T               . 
- Substations                                            A  T 
- General                           \____ PQ  I_T___E_ _C  _                                       __
Samsen Reservoirs                                                PQ      T      E               E_
Bang Khen WT?  - Pumps                                                                                         T                                      F                   I
- Clarifiers (3)
- General (4)                                                                                     A    PQ    T
w  Tunnel  Section 5                                                                                                      A  _PQ   _T  _ E  _              C            _
Pump Stations (5)  - pumps                                                                                A           I
- Substations                                                                                  IA                          _       _T      _ - 
- General                                                                      A   PQ   1T   ' E                                      _
NOTES:
(1) 4 Clarifiers, 10 filters, half reservoir
(2) Phahon Yothin and Tha Phra
(3) Phase One supplier - option
(4) 2 clarifiers, 6 filters, half reservoir,
distribution pump station
(5) Lumpini Park and Klong Toey
April 6, 1973



THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Annual Project Expenditures
Local Currency Costs                                                           Foreign Exchange Costs
Prior to                             cyTotal   Prior to                                                                                          Total       Total
Year Ending September 30,        1973    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   Local       1973      1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    Foreign       Costs
-____________________________million Baht------------------------------    -------------------------------million Baht_----_____________________
PART A
Raw Water Fscilities               -       -       -       24      26       4      -       -        54         -        -       -        9      14        2      -       _          25         79
Bang Then Water Treatment
Plant                            -       -       13      84     132      88      33       4      354         -        -       10      83     145       76      35       4       353         707
Transmission Tknnels               -       -       -      159     206     110      33       6      514        _         -       -       78     100       53      16       3       250         764
Distribution Reservoirs and
Pumping Stations                 -       -       .       29      58      54      36       5      182         -        -       -       29      63       51      41       5       189         371
Sam Sen Reservoirs                 -       -       -       13      17       7      -       -        37         -        -       -        3        4       2      -       _           9         46
General Use Equipment              -        4       8       2       2       2      -       -        18         -         6      12       3        3       3      -       -          27         45
Land                               -      132      25      -       -       -       -       _        157                -            -       -        -       -       -               0        157
Contingencies:
Pbysical                        -       -        1      29      41      26       6       5      108         -        -        1      18       28      17       5       4         73        181
Price                           -       -        1      20      31      29      13       5       99         -        -        1      12       22      21      12       4         72        171
Engineering:
Detailed Design
- Tunnels                     -        8      -       -.      -       -        -       -        8         -        10      -       -        -       -       -       -          10         18
- Other Works                 41      -       -       -       -       -       _        _        41        34       -       -        -       -       -       -        -         34         75
Construction Supervision and
Advisory Services L           -        8      40      50      49      42      24       _       213        -         9      23       26      35      20      11       -        124        337
Management Consulting              -        7       8       7      -       -        -       _        22        -         9      13        1      -       -       -        _         23         45
TOTAL PART A                  41     159      96     417     562     362     145       25    1,807        34       34      60      262     414     245     120       20     1,189      2,996
PART B
Trunk Mains                        -       -       55      75      81     131      33       -       375        -        -       24       29      26      65      -        -        144        519
Distribution Mains                 -       -       44      58      74      150      37      -       363        -        -       13       18      19      53      -        -        103         466
Metering Program                   -       -       27      10       4       -       -       -        41        -        -        32      12      -       -        -       -         44          85
Tubewels                           -       -       10       4       2       1       -       -        17        -        -       17        7       3       4      -        -         31          48
Contingencies:
Pbysical                        -       -       14      15      16      28        7      -        80        -        -        8        7       5      12      -        -         32         112
Price                           -       -        4      U       20      50       16      -       101        -        -        4        5       6      21      -        -         36        137
Engineering                        -        3       8       8       7       8        2      -        36        -         2       4        3       4       4        1      -         18          54
TOTAL PART B                  -        3     162     181     204     368       95      -     1.013        -         2     102       81      63     159        1      -        408       1,421
TOTAL PROJECT                 41     162     258     598     766     730      240      25    2,820        34       36      162     343     477     404     121       20     1,597      4,417
/    Includes 0 61 million in local currency for MWWA engineering costs during period 1973-1978.
June 6, 1973



ANNEX 8
THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from Bank Loan
Cumulative Disbursement    % of
at end of Quarter        Total
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                           (US$ 000)
1974
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1973                      820                  1.5
3rd quarter ending March 31, 1974                       2,053                  3.7
4th quarter ending June 30, 1974                        3,286                  6.0
1975
ist quarter ending September 30, 1974                   4,519                  8.2
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1974                    7,668                 13.9
3rd quarter ending March 31, 1975                      10,817                 19.7
4th quarter ending Juw - 30, 1975                      13,966                 25.4
1976i
1st quarter ending September 30, 1975                  17,115                 31.1
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1975                   22,091                 40.2
3rd quarter ending March 31, 1976                      27,067                 49.2
4th quarter ending June 30, 1976                       32,043                 58.3
1977
1st quarter ending September 30, 1976                  37,019                 67.3
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1976                   39,964                 72.7
3rd quarter ending March 31, 1977                      42,909                 78.0
4th quarter ending June 30, 1977                       45,854                 83.4
1978
Ist quarter ending September 30, 1977                  48,798                88.7
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1977                   50,240                 91.3
3rd quarter ending March 31, 1978                      51,682                 94.0
4th quarter ending June 30, 1978                       53,124                 96.6
1979
1st quarter ending September 30, 1978                  54,567                99.2
2nd quarter ending December 31, 1978                   54,712                 99.5
3rd quarter ending March 21, 1979                      54,856                 99.7
4th quarter ending June 30, 1979                       55,000                100.0
Assumption:  That loan becomes effective by October 1, 1973.
June 8, 1973



THAIIJLND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Past and Future Water Production for Project Design
Population of Area                                 Average Daily Water Production in Central Service Area Public System
Served by Central                                  MWWA Central System A/        Private         Total
Water System               Service /           Surface    Ground                 (Ground      Public  &         of which
Year         Totaly       Served       Connections            Water      Water      Total       Water)        Private       ground water
-----thousands----        -thousands-           -------------t--------thousands mi/day---------------------------
1949           910           181          23.5                   67         -           67        -               67          -
1950           980           206          26.0                   74         -           74        -               74          -
1951         1,035           234          28.8                    74        -           74        -               74          -
1952         1,100           271          33.1                    93        -           93        -               93          -
1953         1,176           336          39.1                  105         -          105        -              105          -
1954         1,259           385          45.7                   146         8         154         -             154           8         5
1955         1,344           426          55.1                   148        15         163         -             163          15         9
1956         1,419           472          63.0                   159        34         193         -             193          34        18
1957         1,492           524          70.7                   157        33         190         -              190          33       17
1958         1,572           633          83.6                   159        64         223         -             223          64        29
1959         1,657           851         114.8                   170       153         323         -              323        153        47
1960         1,743           963          125.6                  171       109         280         -              280        109        39
1961         1,868         1,018         134.2                   169       177         346          2             348         179       51
1962         2,002         1,136         144.3                   194       174         368          8             376         182       48
1963         2,144         1,243          154.4                  240       183         423         21             444         204       46
1964         2,297         1,321         167.2                   387       187         574         42             616         229       37
1965         2,464         1,385         180.2                   566        71         637         62             699         133       19
1966         2,573         1,493         195.4                   573       153         726         85             811         238       29
1967         2,683         1,603         206.0                   586       234         820        120             940         354       38
1968         2,780         1,720         222.2                   580       308         888        170           1,058         478       45
1969         2,949         1,846         241.9                   534       398         932        200           1,132         598        53
1970           -           1,965         258.0                   630       353         983        240           1,223         593        48
1971           -           2,094         266.9                   641       354         995        260           1,255         614        49
1972           -           2,228         288.0                   742       318       1,060        280           1,340         598        45
1973           -           2,372          3o6.0                  823       402       1,225        300           1,525         702        46
1974           -           2,526          324.0                  851       366       1,217        315           1,532         681        44
1975         3,891         2,687          342.0                  930       260       1,190        330          1520          590        39
1980           -           3,514          441.o                1,423       150       1,573        350           1,923         500        26
1985         6,o79         4,591          573.0                2,010         75      2,085        400           2,485         475        19
1990           _           5,645          691.0                2,625         -       2,625         s50          3,075         450        15
1995           -           6,940          841.0                3,395                 3,395        425           3,820         425    1 I
2000         9,920         8,512       1,039.0                 4,336        -        4,336        400           4,736         400         8
Note:  All data taken from Table 5.8, Volume IT, of Master Plan Technical Report dated February 1970 except as noted.
1/  Total population estimates increased 1969 onward to include population in areas served by central system outside municipal
boundaries. These data taken from Master Plan Tables 4.13-4.16,
j Service connections at end of fiscal year (December 31 through 1960 and September 30 thereafter). Data for 1969 through
1971 are reported actuals as given on pages 26 and 27 of Project Summary Report (Draft), June 1972, by Booz Allen & Dextiton
International, 5Inc.
3/  Productio(i if  wr'a  eater and ground water for public system in 1970, 1971 and 1972 revised to reflect actuals as reported
by MWWA.






4.0
THAILAND - BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER REQUIREMENTS & PRODUCTION CAPACITY
3.5
AVERAGE DAILY DEMAND
INCREASE FROM 1975 AT R C  - 
3.0                                                                                                              12 %/YEAR (RATE 1960-19721973* ._
U,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
z                                                                                                                               -
0
2.5__ 
RELIABLE CAPACITY SYSTEM WITH PROJECT
YEAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-
0
z
<
0.00
1.50XSIGSYTM17
MINIMUM ESTIMATE AVERAGE ~DAILY DEMAND
ACTUAL PRODUCTION AVERAGE DAY
0.5
O0
0
1965                         1970                         1975                          1980                         1985                          1990
YEAR
World Bank- 7404






THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Requirements and Production Capacity
Average Daily Production & Requirements                     Maximum Daily Requirements
Master     Production    12%/Yr.                    1.15 times  1.25 times  1.15 times
Plan      Used for       Increase     Minimum        Master       Master   Min.Estimate  Reliable Production Capacity
Estimated     Demand      Financial       from        Demand          Plan        Plan         of         Existing      Project
Year      Actual     Estimate    Forecasts         1975 LA    EstimateL.2   Avg. Day    Avg. Day    Avg. Day    Facilities  Facilities   Total
--- --------------------------------------------------m3/day (000)---_____________________________________-_____-___________
1965       637           _-                          -                           - _  _                               883          -           883
1966       726           _-                                             -                                              - _
1967       820                                             -            -                                              -           -            -
1968       888            -            -                           -             -           _            -           908          -           908
1969       932            -            -             _            _              _           _                        998          -           998
1970       983        1,032            -             _         1,036          1,190       1,290       1,190           983          -           983
1971       995        1,102           995            -         1,097          1,270       1,377       1,260           990          -           990
1972     1,058        1,16o         1,058            _         1,133          1,335        i450        1,305        1,153          -         1,153
1973                   1 16225 10160/3               -         1,175          1,410       1,530        1,350        1,183          -         1,183
1974        -          1,217        1,160o-          -         1,148          1,400       1,520        1,320        1,183          -         1,183
1975        -         1,190         1,160 '3-    1,190         1,102          1,370       1,490        1,270        1,183          -         1,183
i976        -         1,241         1,160o/       1,330         1,118         1,430       1,550        1,285        1,183          -         1,183
1977        -         1,310         1,326         1,490         1,137         1,510       1,640        1,310         1,123/4      800/4      1,923
1978        -         1,388         1,403         1,670        1,182          1,600       1,735        1,360         1,073/4   1,200         2,273L4
1979        -         1,475 -       1,488         1,870         1,262         1,700       1,845        1,450         1,023      1,200        2,223
1980        -          1,573        1,573         2,095         1,350         1,810       1,970        1,550           973      1,200        2,173
1981        -         1,658-        1,663            -             -          1,910       2,075           -            958      1,200        2,158
1982        -         1,752         1,759            -          1,504         2,010       2,190        1,730           943      1,200        2,143
1983        -         1,851            -             _             _          2,130       2,315           -            928      1,200        2,128
1984        -         1,961            -             -             -          2,260       2,450           -            913      1,200        2,113
1985        -         2,085            -          3,695         1,767         2,400       2,610        2,030           898       1,200       2,098
1990        -         2,625            -          6,515         2,233          3,020      3,280        2,570           823      1,200        2,023
/A  Average annual increase 1960-1972, starting with Master Plan estimate for 1975.
2  Assumes population served 65% 1970 through 1975, increasing to 70% in 1980, 75% in
1985 and 80% in 1990.  Domestic use per capita served reduced from 290 led in 1970
to 150 lcd in 1978 and thereafter.
3 Production 1973-1975 limited by c4pacity existing facilities.
/4  Beginning March 1978. 
April 4, 1973






ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Internal Rates of Return
The Project
1.        The project would increase water production and transmission
capacity, extend the distribution system to serve more people over a wider
area and generally improve the reliability and quality of water supply
operations in metropolitan Bangkok. It is also expected to increase the
efficiency of use of the water service provided. As it has been decided
that these services are of high social priority and must be provided, the
primary justification for this project is that it is the least cost solution
(para 4.09).
2.        This annex therefore does not calculate economic or financial
rates of return 1/ to justify the project. Rather, these rates of return
are examined to indicate the adequacy of the tariff structure from the
point of view of the financial viability of the MWWA and to estimate the
rate of return on the investment to society.
Financial Rate of Return
3.        Details of the physical characteristics and financing plans for
the project are available in Sections III and IV of the report and in
Annex 4. In connection with the calculation of the financial rates of
return, the following assumptions are made:
(a) The rates of return are calculated for the entire
project including the investment in additional
distribution works required in 1979-81 to fully
utilize the project. Although the project is
subdivided into separate parts because of the
proposed parallel lending arrangements, it is
considered here as a single operation.
1/   The term "rate of return" used in this Annex refers to the internal
rate of return, defined as the discount rate which will equate the
costs and benefits attributable to the project, thus yielding a zero
net present value.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(b) Costs and benefits relating to existing facilities
and to subsequent time slices of MWWA's long-term
program have been ignored in calculating the incre-
mental return on the project.
(c) Capital costs include allowances for physical but not
for price contingencies.
(d) All values are expressed in constant 1973 prices
(including the effects of recent currency realign-
ments). While there is no allowance for price
inflation per se, the average revenue per cubic
meter of water does rise, as can be seen in
Annex 13, because of an expected increase in the
percentage of users falling within the tariff
categories with higher charges per cubic meter
(Annex 20).
(e) The incremental financial internal rate of return
is somewhat overstated because, in a partial attempt
to obtain an estimated economic rate of return, taxes
and duties amounting to an estimated Baht 420 million
(10% of nr capital costs) have been deducted from the
capital costs.
(f) The incremental operating costs attributable to the
project are assumed to remain constant after 1982,
the year in which the project is expected to be
fully utilized.
(g) The useful life of the principal project elements is
assumed to be 40 years.
4.        Based on these assumptions, two sets of financial rates of
return have been derived for the project. The higher set assumes that,
without the project, the steps necessary to reduce the nonrevenue (unac-
counted-for water) would not be taken; the lower set assumes that they would
be taken.
5.        Based on the first assumption, the project is expected to yield
an incremental financial internal rate of return of about 12.6%; the second
assumption reduces this rate to 8.4%. Sensitivity analysis has been applied
to these financial rates of return with the following results:



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3
Rate of Return (%)
Including Full
Benefits of
Improved Metering
Ass umptions                   Minimum      and Billing
Expected Value                              8.4           12.6
Project Costs:
Increase by 10%                           7.6           11.4
Increase by 20%                           6.9           10.4
Decrease by 10%                           9.3           13.9
Decrease by 20%                          10.4           15.6
Operating Costs:
Increase by 10%                           8.2           12.4
Increase by 20%                           7.9           12.1
Operating Revenues:
Decrease by 10%
compared to estimates                   7.3           11.1
Decrease by 20%
compared to estimates                   6.1           9.5
Operating Costs increase by 10%
and operating revenues de-
crease by 10%                             7.0           10.8
Economic Rate of Return
6.        It was not possible to develop a meaningful measure of economic
benefits for the purpose of estimating the economic rate of return on the
project. However, an examination of the adjustments which would be required
to move from a financial to an economic analysis, as outlined below, indi-
cates that the economic rate of return would exceed the financial rate of
return, probably by a substantial margin.
7.        The move to an economic analysis can be broken down into two
parts: a re-evaluation of the costs and a re-evaluation of the benefits.
8.        Costs:  The major distortion in the capital costs -- duties and
taxes to be paid on capital equipment -- has already been removed (see
para 3(e) above). No adjustment in the present market foreign exchange rate
appears warranted to make it reflect more accurately its social opportunity
cost. Similarly, actual wage costs seem to measure fairly well the social
cost of labor in the project. Some land which the project will occupy is
municipally owned and will be given to MWWA at no cost. From a social point
of view this land has a value; however, an imputed value on that part of
the land which will be used in this time slice of the program has already
been included in calculating the financial rate of return, so no further
adjustment would be required.
9.        For recurrent costs, the financial cost of labor probably reflects
its social value. However, the cost of operating inputs, to the extent they
are procured domestically at a higher cost than the c.i.f. price or include



ANNEX I 1
Page 4
import taxes and duties, are probably overstated from a social point of view
in the financial analysis.
10.       Thus, as far as the cost side is concerned, it is probably
reasonable to expect the economic rate of return to be slightly higher than
the financial because such market price distortions of costs that are
worth noting are upwards.
11.       Benefits:  The social benefit of the additional water produced by
the project is probably understated in the financial analysis in two ways.
First, the value of the water per se to the customers is almost certainly
understated. With a product such as water for which there is a highly
inelastic demand, the consumer's willingness to pay is generally far greater
than the price, both overall and at the margin. Thus, when actual revenues
are used to measure the value of the additional water provided, substantial
amounts of socially valuable consumer surplus are ignored. This consumer
surplus becomes particularly significant with a project such as this which
makes water available to those who have not had access to it before due to
physical rationing (insufficient distribution mains, etc.). Second, there
are a number of social benefits listed below which are more or less external
to the priv.Lte use of water. Some of these are partially internalized in
the price of water and some are overlapping and their inclusion would
constitute double cc nting, but not all.
(a) the advantages to customers in terms of efficiency
of having a convenient dependable source of good
quality water;
(b) reduction of wasteful use by some customers by
appropriate metering and pricing so that others
would benefit;
(c) cost savings to individual consumers by reduction
of use of bottled or boiled water;
(d) cost savings on installation, operation and maintenance
of pumps and storage tanks now commonly used by cus-
tomers to get water from the MWWA system;
(e) health benefits to the population served and to the
community as a whole - reduction in time losses, human
inefficiency and medical costs due to illness attribu-
table to lack of ample amounts of safe water for
drinking, cooking and sanitation;
(f) reduced losses from fire due to adequate water supplies
for fire fighting;



ANNEX 11
Page 5
(g) availability of adequate reliable supplies of good
quality water to commercial and industrial establish-
ments now hampered by deterioration of groundwater
sources; and
(h) a general reduction in overpumping of groundwater in
the MWWA service area, making this resource available
for use where I4WWA service is not available.
12.       It would be very difficult to measure the real value of these
benefits with the data available in Bangkok. The consultants have attempted
to quantify some of them, and the results for health (including savings in
purchase of bottled water) and for fire protection are shown in Annex 12.
The estimate of Baht 80 million for annual benefits from improved fire
protection appear realistic.
13.       A proper economic evaluation would also consider the negative
externalities. For example, the project will undoubtedly aggravate the
sewage and waste disposal problems in the area which has no sewerage system
at present.
14.       Despite potential negative externalities, there appears to be
no doubt that the underestimations of the consumer willingness to pay and
of the positive externalities are far greater, and that, from the benefit
side of the analysis, the net value of the project would be substantially
larger when measured in social instead of market prices.
15.       Thus, since the net value would be increased in an economic
analysis on both the benefit and the cost sides of the ledger, the incre-
mental internal economic rate of return would certainly be significantly
higher than the estimated financial rate of return.
June 8, 1973






ANNEX 12
Page 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Consultants' Estimates of Indirect Benefits 1/
Savings Related to Public Health. Three categories of public health
benefits have been selected for cost evaluation:
-    Time lost from work as a result of water-borne illnesses
Assumption: 15% of the present (1969) served population
of 1,850,000 will lose two days from work each
year at a wage of Baht 50 per day per worker.
Annual Cost: Baht 28,000,000
-    Purchase of medicines to combat water-borne illnesses
,ssumption:  30% of the present served population of 1,850,000
will require medicine at a cost of Baht 40 per
year per person.
Annual Cost: Baht 22,000,000
-    Provision of an alternate source of potable water.
The major bottled water company in Bangkok produces
about 750,000 liters per day. Most of it is consumed
locally. The cost varies from about Baht 1.00 per
liter for a sin e bottle to about Baht 0.25 per liter
for multiples of 20 liter bottles.
Assumption: 500,000 liters per day of bottled water is utilized
by the served population because of lack of confidence
in the public supply. A price or Baht 0.25 per liter
represents the minimum charge.
Annual Cost: Baht 45,000,000
The estimated cost is Baht 95,000,000 per year for these three items. It is
assumed that an amount in this order could be saved through improvements
to public health if a completely adequate water supply were available.
1/   Master Plan for Water Supply and Distribution, February 1970, Volume I,
pages 21 - 23.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Savings Related to Fire Protection. In recent years, annual fire losses
have been about Baht 200,000,000. Discussions with fire officials indicate
that these losses could be reduced by 30 to 50 percent if adequate quantities
of water for fighting fires were available from the public supply system.
Assumption:  Present annual fire losses of Baht 200,000,000
can be reduced by 40 percent with the provision
of an adequate water system.
Annual Saving: Baht 80,000,000.
April 11, 1973



THAILAIN
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Incremental Financial Rate of Return
Benefits                                                                  Costs
Year                           Average           Incremental                                                                                                Incremcrtal
Ending         Incremental       Rate            Water Revenue             Incremental         Total         Capital        Incremental          Total          Net
September 30      Water Sales/L      m3 2    Gross   Bad Debts   Net         Other RerenueL3    Benefits         Costs L      Recurring Costs 4    Costs         Benefits
m- million      Baht-      ----------             --------------------------------Baht million-----------------------------------------------
1973               0            1.30          0        0          0             0                0            206               18               224          (224)
1974               22           1.44         32        1         31              3              34            370               21                391         (357)
1975              24            1.50         36        1         35              5              40            805               27               832          (792)
1976              26            1.56         41        2         39              6              45          1,061               33             1,094         (1,049)
1977               77           1.59        122        5        117              8             125            906               48                954          (829)
1978             115            1.62        186        7        179             11             190            281               60                341          (151)
1979             161            1.65        265       11        254             14             268            161               71                232            36
1980             197            2.05        404       16        388             20             408            135               80                215           193
1981             226            2.05        463       19        444             22             466            135                87               222           244
1982 and
thereafter to
2013            257            2.05        526       21        505             24             529               0               95                95           434
RATE oF RETURN   8.4%
A    Increased volume from 1972, excluding increased sales due to reduction in unaccounted-for water from existing water supply
sources.  During period 1973-1976 the incremental sales would be due entirely to new tubewells.
/2   Average revenue per m3 for water sold at present prices through 1979 and with about 25% price increase starting 1980 (see Annex 16).
/3   Mostly meter rental charges and connection fees.
A    Include cost of installing new connections and meters.
/A   Including continuation of investments 1979-81 for distribution mains required to realize project benefits.
June 5, 1973






THAI LAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
METROPOLITAN WATER WORKS AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART 1972
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
|INTERNAL AUDIO                                                               LEA ADVISO
11111111111    GENERAL MANAGER
|MANAGEMET_ PUBLIC RELATIONS
E  ANALYST                                                                     OFFCE
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER FOR                             DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER FOR                               DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER
ADMINISTRATION & SERVICES                              ENGINEERING & OPERATIONS                                     FOR FINANCE
WATER OPERATIONSBUGTADRESY
ADMINISTRATIVE DEPT.       SERVICE DEPARTMENT              DEPARTMENT               ENGINEERING DEPT.        REVENUE DEPARTMENT          ACCOUNTING DEPT.
DIVISIONS OF:              DIVISIONS OF:               DIVISIONS OF:              DIVISIONS OF:            REGIONAL REVENUE                DIVISION OF:
GENERAL SERVICES            REGION No. 1               WATER PRODUCTION            SURVEY AND DESIGN            DIVISIONS:                BUDGET
METER READING              TREASURY
REGION No. 2               MANTENANCE                 CONTRUCTION                           SECTIONS               MANAGEMENT
AND REPAIR                 SUPERVISION                 BILL COLLECTION
REGION No. 3                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECTIONS  ACCOUNTING
PERSONNEL AND               REGION No. 3               WATER DISTRIBUTION          RESEARCH AND                INSPECTION SECTIONS
TRAINING                    REGION No. 4                                           DEVELOPMENT                 CASHIER'S SECTIONS
CONTROL AND
PURCHASING                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJET PLNfGESTIMATING SECTIONS
METER TESTING                                         AND CONTROL
LAW                         AND REPAIR                                                                         ADMINISTRATION
WATER QUALITY                         SECTIONS
LABORATORY                                                                        H
World Bank - 7406(R)






ANNEX 15
THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Metropolitan Water Works Authority (MWWA)
Summarized Proforma Income Statements for the Years 1968-1972
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972
----------Million Baht -----------
Revenue
Water Sales                           61      65       69      72       89
Other Revenue                         23      24      31       29       39
Total                            84     89      100      101     128
Operating Expenses
Salaries and Wages                    30      33       42      48       55
Power and Fuel                        23      34       38      32       33
Chemicals                             22      14      16       17       17
Materials                             20      19       19      18       32
Other Expenses                        10       7      12       11        7
Total                          105    107       127      126      144
Operating Loss (before
depreciation)       21      18       27       25      16
Depreciation                          45      47      51       54       46
Total Operating Loss             66     65       78       79       62
April 11, 1973



THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Metropolitan Water Works Authority, Bangkok
Estimated Income Statements
Year ending September 30,                                     1971       1972      1973      1974       1975      1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982
Estimated .Annual Water Production  million m3                 363        385       423        423       423        423       484       512        543        574       607        642
Estimated Water Sales               million m3                 133        154       182        212       233        254       315        358       407        431       455        482
% water unaccounted for                                         63         60        57         50        45         40        35         30        25         25        25         25
Average Baht/m3                                               0.54       0.58      1.30       1.44      1.50       1.56      1.59       1.62      1.65       2.05      2.05       2.05
------------------------------------------------Million Baht----------------------------
REVENUE
Water Billings                                                72         89       237        305       350        396       501       580        672       884        933        988
Less Bad Debts                                                -          -        ( 9)       (12)      (14)       (16)      (20)       (23)      (27)       (35)      (37)       (40)
72        89       228        293       336        380       481        557       645        849       896        948
Meter Rent                                                     2          2         2          3         3          3         3          3         3          4         4          4
Connection Fees                                               27         36        36         37        39        39         41        44         46         50        52         54
Miscellaneous                                                 -           1         2          3         3          4         4          4         5          6         6          6
Total Revenue                                           101       128        268       336        381       426        529       608        699       909        958     1,012
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries & Wages                                              48         55        69         83        92        95         99        102       100        104       108        112
Power & Fuel                                                  32         33        37         38        39         41        48         52        57         62        68         74
Chemicals                                                     17         17        19         20        20        21         25        27         29         32        35         38
Materials                                                     18         32        35         37        39         46        55         62        68         71        74         76
Other Expenses                                                11          7         9         10        11         11        12         12        13         13        14         15
Less Project Engineering & Supervision Capitalized                                 -         (11)      (13)       (13)      (13)       (11)      (2)        (2)       (2)        (2)
Total                                                   126       144        169        177       188       201        226       244        265       280        297        313
Surplus (deficit) before Depreciation and Interests             (25)      (16)       99        159       193        225       303        364       434        629       661        699
Depreciation                                                    54         46        44         48        53         88       125        150       17C        175       178        183
Total Operating Costs (including depreciation)                 180        190       213        225       241        289       351        394       435        455       475        496
Operating Income (deficit)                                     (79)       (62)       55        111       140        137       178        214       264        .54       483        516
Interest                                                        -          -         -           4        10         10        10         10       122        L98       180        173
Net Surglus (deficit)                                           (79)      (62)        55       107        130       127       168        204        142       266        303       343
Operating Ratio before Depreciation  <                         125        113        63         53        49         47        43         40         30        31         31        31
Operating Ratio after Depreciation   <                         178        148        79         67        63         68        66         65         62        50         -^        49
Average Rate Base                                                -         -      1,255      1,365      1,548     2,868     4,249      5,098      5,058     7,7        5,'1      5,741
Rate of Return on Average Net Value of Fixed Assets
in Operation   %                                              -          -        4.4        8.1-      9.0        L.8       4          4.2                                       - 0
0-n



THAILA1D
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Metropolitan Water Works Authority, Bangkok
Estimated Sources & Application of Funds
Total
Project
Period
Year ending September 30,                                  1973       1974      1975      1976       1977      1978      1979       1973-79       1980      l981       1932
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                 -------------------------------------------------Million Baht____________________t____--
Income before Depreciation end Interest           (16)       99        159       193        225       303       364        434       1.777         629       661        699
Changes in Current Items Excluding Cash           (1)        (35)        6       (10)       ( )        15       (13)       (18)      ( 63)         (38)      (10)       (12)
Net Cash Generation from Operations                (34)       64       165       183        217       318       351        416       1,714         591       651        687
Government Contributions                           53        83         20        -          -         -         -          -          103          -         -          -
Custower Contributions                             -          -          6         7         7          8         8          9          45           9        10         10
Proceeds from Loans:
IBRD                                          -         -          94       262       414        245       120          9       1,144          -         _          -
ADB                                           -          2        102        81        63        159         1         -          408          -         -
Government - previous loans                   81       128         50        -         -          -         -          -          178          -
Government - loans for project                -         50         50       460       630        520        40         -        1,750
Total                                    81       180       296        803     1,107       924        161         9        3,480
Deferred Interest                                   2          6        13        23         45        64        69                    220
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                  102       333        500     1,016     1,376     1,314        589       434        5,562        600        661       697
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Net Assets:
Project costs -
Part A - financed by IBD15                  42       193        156       679       976        607       265         45       2 ,921
Part B - financed by ADB                    -          5        264       262       267        527        96         -        1,421
Other Assets                                  76       114         21        21        21         17        17        120         331         200       200        200
Total                                   118       312        441       962     1,264     1,151        378       165        4,673         200       200       200
Debt Service:
Interest capitalized:
IBRD Loan                                   -         -          12        23        45         67        79         62         288          -         -          -
ADB Loan                                    -          -          7        13        18         25        31          8         102
Government Loans                             2         6          9        13         35        58        69         -          190               -               -
Interest Charged to Revenue:
IBRD Loan                                   -         -          -         -          -         -         -          21          21          82        'o         78
ADB Loaw                                               - -       -               -         -              -          23          23          31         30        29
Government Loans                            -          -          4        10         10        10        10         78         122          75         70        66
Amortization:
IBRD Loan                                   -         -          -         -          -         -         -          -           -           27        29         31
ADB Loan                                                         -         -                         -          -          -                  9         10       1U
Government Loans                            -          -         -         -          -          5        13        101         119         101        101       101
Deferred Interest on Government Loan          -          -         -         _                     1          2        11           14         11         11        U1
Total Debt Service                        2         6         32        59       108        166       204        304         879         336       331        327
TOTAL APFLICATION OF FLNDS              120       318        473     1,021     1,372      1,317       582        469       5,552         536       531        527
Cash Surplus (deficit)                             (18)       15        27        (5)         4       ( 3)         7       (35)          10          64       130       170
Cash Balance end of Year                           12         27        54         49        53        50         57        22           22         86        216       3862
Debt Service Coverage (times)                       -       10.7       5.2        3.1       2.0       1.9        1.7       1.4           -          1.8       2.0       2.1
/1 Expenditure of 33 was incurred on this project before 1972.
2   The acconulated cash vill be required to meet, in part, the next stage of expansion of facilities around this tine.
Jane 1, 1973



THUALAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Metropolitan Water Works Authority, Bangkok
Estimated Balance Sheets
Year ending September 30,                         1971       1972        1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980       1981       1982
-------------------------------------------------------Million Baht---------------__-----------_______- ____-__-______
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets in Operation             1,484      1,641      1,849       1,953      2,315      4,734      5,291      6,707      6,931       7,031      7,231      7,431
Less Accumulated DepreciLtton                 422        468        512         560        613        701        826         76       1,146      1.321      1,499      1,682
Net Fixed Assets in Operation               1,062      1,173      1,337       1,393      1,702      4,033      4,465      5,731       5,785      5,710      5,732      5,749
Works in Progress                             174        137        247         612      1,261        204        948         89         100        200        200        200
Total                                  1,236      1,310      1,584      2,005       2,963      4,237      5,413      5,820      5,885       5,910      5,932      5,949
Current Assets
Investments                                    60         69         81          93        106        120        134        149         163        178        193        209
Inventories                                    67         67         64          61         58         55         55         55          58         62         65         68
Accounts Receivable                            23         4o         76          73         84         95         80          93        108        142        149        158
Cash                                           30         12         27          54         49         53         50         57         22          86        216        386
Total                                    180        188        248         281        297        323        319        354        351         468        623        821
TOTAL ASSETS                                     1,416      1,498       1,832      2,286      3,260      4,560      5,732      6,174       6,236      6,378    6,555        6,770
EQUITY AND LL4BILITIES
Equity A                                         1,342       1,333      1,471      1,604      1,741      1,875      2,051       2,263      2,414      2,689       3,002      3,355
Long Term Debt
IBRD Loan                                      -          -           -          94        356        770      1,015      1,135       1,144      1,117      1,088      1,057
ADB Loan                                       -          -            2        104        185        248        407         408        408        399         389        378
Government Loan                                -          81        259         359        819      1,449      1,964      1,991       1,890      1,789      1,688      1,587
Deferred Interest                              -           2           8         21         44         89        152        219         208        197        186         175
Total                                     -          83        269         578      1,404      2,556      3,538      3,753       3,650      3,502      3,351      3,197
Less Current Maturities                        -          -           -          -                      6         15        112         148        151        154        157
Net Long Term Debt                             -          83         269        578      1,404      2,550       3,523      3,641      3,502      3,351       3,197      3,o40
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                               24         24          22         22         20         20          20         20         20         20          20         20
Customers' Deposits                            38         40          43         46         50         54         58          62         66         71         76          81
Employees Provident FPunds                     12         18          27         36         45         55          65         76         86         96         106        117
Current Maturities                             -          -           _         _                       6         15         112        148        151         154        157
Total                                     74         82         92         104        115        135        158        270         320        338        356         375
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                     1,416      1,498       1,832      2          3,260      4,560       5,732      6,174      6,236      6,378       6,555      6,770
Debt:Equity Ratio                                   -         6:94      15:85      26:74      45:55      58:42       63:37      62:38      59:41       55:45      52:48      k8:52
/    Includes contributions and retained uarnings.
J.ne 1, 1973



ANNEX 19
Page 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Netropolitan Water Works Authority (MWWA)
Assumptions for Financial Projections
INCOME STATEMENTS
Revenue
1.        Water production in 1973 through 1976, is based on the productive
capacity of the system. 1977 onwards it is based on the consultants estimate
of water demand.
2.        Water unaccounted-for in distribution (difference between water
produced and water sold) which was 60% of production in 1972 is estimated
to come down to 57% in 1973 and 50% in 1974. Thereafter, a uniform annual
decrease of 5% is assumed in 1975 through 1979 bringing down the unaccounted-
for water to 25%.
3.        Water Billings are arrived at by multiplying the volume of water
sales with the average rate per m3. The average rate reported by MWWA for
7 months billing after tariff revision is % 1.30/m3. With improvement in
meter reading and billing procedures and increased water consumption by large
users, it is estimated that the average rate will go up to $ 1.44/m3 in 1974
and increase to $ 1.50/m3 in 1975 and to $ 1.65/m3 by 1979.  A rate increase
of about 25% is assumed effective October 1, 1979 raising the average rate
per m3 to $ 2.05.
4.        Bad debts are estimated at 4% of billings.
5.        Revenue from meter rents is based on the current average rate per
meter multiplied by the estimated number of meters in each year.
6.        Connection fees are projected on the estimate,d number of additional
connections proposed to be given each year and the estimated cost per
connection. The number of connections assumed are as follows:



ANNEX 19
Page 2
No. of
No. of                              Connections      Average
Year Ending  Connections at   New           Dis-        End of         No. of
September 30 the Beginning Connections Connections    Year          connections
--------------------------in thousands------------------------
1972         267           14           4           277            272
1973         277           16           4           289            283
1974         289           18           5           302            296
1975         302           20           5          317             310
1976         317           21           6           332            325
1977         332           22           6          348             340
1978         348           24           7          365             357
1979         365           25           7          383             374
1980         383           27           8          402             393
1981         402           28           8          422             412
1982         422           29           9          442             432
The average cost of a new connection which was about $ 2,500 in 1972 is estimated
to decrease to $ 1,850 by 1976 as a result of better scheduling and supervision
of labor and improved control over use of materials. The following estimates
of Labor and Material costs have been adopted for the projections:
Baht per connection
Labor          Material                Total
1972 (actual)              660              1,840                2,500
1973                       600              1,650                2,250
1974                       550              1,500                2,050
1975                       540              1,400                1,940
1976 through 1982          500              1,350                1,850
Operating Costs
7.        A 26% increase in 1973 under Salaries and Wages reflects provisions
of 11% for salary adjustments ($ 6 million) and 15% for additional staff
(9 8 million).  The estimates for 1974 through 1982 assume a 4% annual
increase for normal increments. Employment of additional staff for the
project and operations has also been assumed in 1974 and 1975 (16% and 6%
respectively) while a net decrease of about 7% has been assumed to occur
during 1978-1979 period as the project is completed. Beginning with 1974,
the estimated cost of NWWA's staff employed on engineering and supervision
of capital works has been capitalized and shown as a deduction from
operating costs.
8.        Power, Fuel and Chemicals are projected to increase at about
the same rate as water production plus a 3% annual increase due to price
escalation.



ANNEX 19
Page 3
9.        Materials include items used for maintenance of the system and
for giving new connections. The cost of the former is estimated at 0.5% of
the average gross value of fixed assets in operation. The latter is
based on the number of new connections and the average cost of material per
connection (paragraph 6).
10.       Other Expenses comprise rents, telephones, postage and miscella-
neous items. They have been projected at about 12 to 13% of salaries and
wages.
11.       Depreciation has been assumed at 2.5% of the average gross value
of assets in operation.
12.       It is assumed that MWWA will not be required,to make any remittances
to Government Treasury out of its net surpluses.
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENTS
13.       Government contributions in 1972 through 1974 are mainly for pur-
chase of land and for distribution improvement works.
14.       Customer contributions reflect the estimated cost of water meters
met by the consumers.
15.       IBRD and ADB loan disbursements are directly related to foreign
exchange expenditures except for payments to consultants in 1973 which
are assumed withdrawn in 1974.
16.       Government loans of B 97 million and $ 162 million for capital
works granted in 1971 are assumed to be utilized as follows:
Million j
1972                     81
1973                    128
1974                     50
259
A Government loan of $ 1,750 million for the project has been assumed to
be drawn as follows:
Million $
1973                     50
1974                     50
1975                    460
1976                    630
1977                    520
1978                     40
1 .750



ANNEX 19
Page 4
17.       Debt service charges have been calculated as follows:
(a) IBRD L,oan - $ 1,144 million (US$55 million)
Principal and interest repayable in 40 equal semi-annual
installments after a grace period of about six years.
First repayment will be on October 1, 1979. Rate of
interest 7.25%. Commitment charge 0.75%. The interest
and commitment charges will be capitalized up to the
Closing Date of the Loan (June 30, 1979).
(b) ADB Loan - g 408 million (US$19.6 million)
Repayable in 40 equal semi-annual installments after a
grace period of about 6 years. First repayment is
assumed on December 1, 1979. Rate of interest 7.5%
and commitment charge 0.75%. Interest and commitment
charges would be capitalized up to the Closing Date of
the Loan (December 31, 1978).
(c) Government Loan - Amount as in paragraph 16. Principal
together with interest at 4% on outstanding balances
repayable in 40 semi-annual installments after five years'
grace period. The interest accrued during the grace period
would be d Zerred and repaid in 40 semi-annual installments.
This follows the terms of the agreements dated September 3, 1971
and May 22, 1972 for the two earlier loans.
BALANCE SHEETS
18.       Fixed Assets are at book cost less depreciation.
19.       Investments represent mainly the customers' deposits and Employees
Provident Fund and are projected to increase accordingly.
20.       Inventories amounting to $ 67 million in 1972 are projected to
reduce gradually to $ 55 million by 1978 as a result of improved management.
Thereafter they have been assumed at 60% of consumption of materials and
chemicals.
21.       Accounts receivable are assumed equal to 4 months water billings
(less bad debts) in 1973. As a result of more effective collection procedures
to be implemented under the Revenue Improvement Program, they are assumed
to come down to 3 months billings in 1974 through 1976 and 2 months billings
thereafter.
22.       Accounts payable are projected to decrease from the present $ 24 mil-
lion to $ 22 million in 1973 and $ 20 million in 1975. Thereafter they are
assumed constant.
June 8, 1973



ANNEX 20
THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Metropolitan Water Works Authority (MIWA)
Schedule of Water Rates
I.   Rates applicable prior to July 1, 1972:
Bangkok:       First 6 m3 free of charge, consumption
exceeding 6 m3 charged at 0.50 Baht/m3
Thonburi:      First 6 m3 free of charge, consumption
exceeding 6 m3 charged at 1.50 Baht/m3
Nonthaburi:    2.00 Baht/m3
Samut Prakan:  1.25 Baht/m3
II. Rates effective July 1, 1972:
For all areas:
0 -    6 m3  Free
exceeding    6 -   12 m   0.50 Baht per m3
it      12 -    25 m3 1.00  it  n  it
It      25 -    50 in3 1.50  ti  tt 11
"1      50 -  200 m3  2.00   "   it "t
it    200 m3           2.50  t'  It t
III. In addition to the basic water rate, a monthly meter rent is charged
as follows:
Samut
Size of Meter Bangkok Thonburi Nonthaburi Prakan
1/2  it     0.50     1.00       1.00      1.00
3/h  It     0.50     1.50       1.00      1.00
1      "      0.75     2.00       2.00      1.00
1-1/2  It     1.00     2.50       2.00      1.00
2      it     1.25     3.00       2.00      1.00
2-1/2  "      1.50     3.50       2.00      1.00
3             1.75     4.oo       5.00      1.00
4             2.00     5.00       5.00        -
5             2.50     6.oo        -
6             3.00     8.oo        -          -
12             6.00    10.00        -          -
IV. Connection fees are based on estimated cost of labor and material
used for giving the new connection.
April 10, 1973






IBRD 10208
loo'l 15'                                                 100 30'                                    THAILAND                                              F3R Y19
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BANGKOK METROPOLITAN AREA
Municipal oreo
7r'rr,7, ,=- Metropolitan Water Works Authority boundary
Changwat (province) boundaries
............. Amphur (district) boundaries
Major roads
-t--------t Railways
7. International boundaries
.i  |                                                              ~ ~~         ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 4 a 12  16
K ILOMETEtRS
0      2      4      6      e      10
MILES
14                                                                                                                                                                             14' -
The b-uOar- shtto   this men do nof
-tply endorsmet or acpt-n by the
M,                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wond Bank -nd it, affillateo
InX  NOI                   j                         l
BA  ,UA           PAK KRET        /             
>::  ' ,  .:   ,:                \       j    />atBA~~~NG KHEN            ,'
B A                                      ABUR                                                                  NONG CHOK
XNONG KHAEMBAN KRUAT Uf                                      >   
9&   T/H  C?  N  B d R I (? \ . .....................N.A    K   H7                                  
13'45'                                                                                                                                                                      34
100'15'                                   /.                                    \:,,r
\, 9,N^7 ~~~~~~.     _9Xs  }\z..   '>............V p
BBMA<fWfMf5 t                                                            S  AM  u T    . P  R A KAbA NO ok
or i Ef TH AlILAND  \ 1THON
}~~~~~~            ~PAI CHRE                                            BA K3                                            LA  KRABANG
GThln<        oh                                                   GuJf  of  Thoai/and
,,  15 OpALAY                                                10030                                                          10045






100.30    ,      SAM LAE RAW WATER                                                          100'45'
PUMP STATION             ;
THAILAND
BANGKOK WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
-14                                                                                                           l                                      EXISTING WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM -
Area served by Metropolitan Water Works
< SAL NGI                                   (                                                                                                               4/  t  < \ -; ~ ~ E ! Authority Central System (1969)
h      Areas served by separate systems
Raw water canal
Existig i             j                                     Raw water force main
\\-    ~~~! Rangsit I                              * ~~~~~ Raw water pump stations
/er         /  /                                                                        Water treatment plants
R\ ----| -| --                                      I o                                   Wells in production
_ _  Elevated storage tanks
Main roads
BANG  BUA             Upi1                                                                                        Railways
THONG |                                                                                                       Rivers and canals
International boundaries
0     2      4      6      8      10    12    14    16
KILOMETERS
0          2          4          6          8          10
MILES
SBANGY .C O '
_13'45'                                                                                  REATMENT  PLNT                                                                                                            13'45,-
THONBURI WATER TREATMENT P A
NONG  KHAEM/-WJ   
f        HAIL H I NA                   /  ,o\C H I N
L AO 5             |\                                                                                                                          
lT h,,I darics shap,   this nis.s i, ii.,t
t -i4rkrda/onI South      lBOislsdirss,szsr or atstaso tQ tfB
China Se           da,d its sIfilfitNas                  l00 30                                         1                                            100i45 4
!, 1'MALAYSIA                                                         I                                                                                                                            I0






10015'                                                             100 30,                                                                      THAILAND
New Puimping  SAMLARWWAE                                 BANGKOK  WATER  SUPPLY  PROJECT
S Qt      ~PUMP STATION,(EXISTING)
Proposed imrovets.   I                PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
to BangLung Reservoir                      :    Area served by MWWA Central System(1975)             140
-14                                                            | \                               Resrvor*                           Existing water treatment plants
\  |     9 0 1     0  Pump stations (first stage)
Pump statictns(future stage)
0                                                                                       ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C]    Water treatment plant
Proposed improvement raw water channel
\  \   j  <    ru  I    1l Rangsit ISip on   v %    --- Raw water force main
Ransi \   |  \    /  1  \                  _     Transmission tunnel (first stage)
Transmission tunnel (tuture stage)
< \  ; /    BANG                 I W                                                 Rangsit siphon
{6 BUA  THONG Q%|    /          /Proposed i  rovemen/:                                      A     Existing elevated storoge tonks
\  X_  r v      f    _    /}~~~~toKlong Pra$                                                  Main roads
a o/ \ /, /t/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers and canals
bin/n  d t or , s                                                               ---Id~nternational boundaries
Iierld Ba,iA end  In ii_pro__K4n  war_ter  treatment pJant
kNG t~~~~~~~~A I                                             sets
/           _     ~ ~~~~              ~ ~~~~~~                ~    ~~~~~~~ WAE PUM  STATION M&PSIPHO
= ,7,,_ c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                        g   T h u n g   L ngDi345
>  vf gAREARETMFNT PLA
-13-45'THONBURI WAtER TREATMENT P ANT                                   (XISTIB ANG)                    KO  K
T H 0 NA B U R _                           ,           Li
10015'            ON          KHAEM    / /          Rat Bura                         O/                                                    0    2   4    6    a    10  12   t
l tonr/y,rlMorst.mnileirzl.lYlatimt.tia[nt~~~m   Ron                                              10                        0 I L   4                        1004  
SURMA _ 1 _-_



