Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6989-LT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
SEPTEMBER 19, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LITHUANIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Currency Equivalents
Cuzrency Unit = Lita
US$1.00   4 Litae
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BoL                      -        Bank of Lithuania
CAS                      -        Country Assistance Strategy
CEFTA                    -        Central European Free Trade Agreement
CPI                      -        Consumer Price Index
EFF                      -        Extended Fund Facility
EPC                      -        Energy Pricing Commission
EU                       -        European Union
FOB                      -        Free on Board
FSU                      -        Former Soviet Union
I Y                      -        Fiscal Year
GDP                      -        Gross I)omestic Product
IAS                      -        International Accounting Standards
13RD                     -        Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
[DF                      -        Institutional Development Fund
IM                       -        Initiating Memorandum
IME                      -        International Monetary Fund
INPP                     -        Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant
LPC                      -        Lithuanian Power Company
LPG                      -        Liquified Petroleum Gas
MMPP                     -        Minimum Marginal Purchase Price
MSL                      -        Minimum Subsistence Level
MSSL                     -        Ministry of Social Security and Labor
OD                       -        Operational Directives
SAL                      -        Structural Adjustment Loan
SIDA                     -        Swedish International Development Agency
SIF                      -        Social Insurance Fund
SME                      -        Small and Medium-sized Enterprises
SoDra                    -        Social Insurance Administrative Authority
STI                      -        State Tax Inspection
TA                       -        Technical Assistance
TB                       -        Treasury Bill
IJSAID                   -        United States Agency for International Development
VAT                      -        Value Added Tax
WTO                      -        World Trade Organization
Government Fiscal Year
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Republic of Lithuania
Structural Adjustment Loan
Loan Summary
Borrower                  Republic of Lithuania
Amount                    US$80 million
Terms                     Standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for fixed-
rate US dollar single currency loans with an expected disbursement
period of 0-3 years.
Commitment Fee            0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Objectives and Description The proposed two-tranche loan would provide necessary assistance to
the Lithuanian Government in the implementation of its structural
reform program, with its ultimate objective of putting the economy on
a path of rapid and sustainable growth, as a means to permanently
reduce poverty. At present, reaching that path requires: (i) solving the
banking system's current operational and under-capitalization
problems, and (ii) eliminating the most serious sectoral imbalances in
the rest of the economy (which contribute to the bank capital erosion),
especially in the energy, agriculture and social security sectors.
Key reforms include: (a) a new regulatory framework in the banking
sector to foster prudent and efficient practices; (b) commercialization,
institutional reform and privatizations in the energy sector so as to
achieve financial sustainability and efficiency gains; (c) rationalization
of agricultural support mechanisms, while increasing the role of the
private sector and opening up to international trade; and
(d) improvements in the law governing, and the administration of, the
social insurance system while creating a framework for private sector
involvement.
Benefits                  The loan will provide the Lithuanian Government with critical financial
support to cover the short-term costs associated with the cross-sectoral
reforms needed in order to continue the transition toward a market
economy. By doing so, the proposed operation will help place the
economy on a sustainable growth path, with a dynamic private sector
as its engine of growth. The loan will also help the authorities define
(but will not provide financing for) a comprehensive agenda of TA for
reform implementation, and attract and coordinate donor support and
resources.
Risks                     A Bank SAL for Lithuania would entail four main risks. First, with the
next general election scheduled for October 1996, continuous
ownership of the policy program and commitment to its implementation
becomes less certain. Second, SAL-related funding can potentially lead
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|oracial duties. Its contents may not otherise be disclosed YiALhout World Bank authorization.



2
to a relaxation of budget constraints, and an ensuing dilution of policy
commitment. Third, delays in state-controlled bank recapitalizations
can potentially lead to a generalized loss of confidence and to another
banking crisis. As well, the servicing costs of the special treasury
securities for banking restructuring may become politically
unacceptable in the face of competing demands on the budget, leading
to pressure to renege on promised interest payments on those
securities. Fourth, institutional capacity for implementation may prove
to be insufficient, as the needed TA may either be late or not
forthcoming.
The operation's design will seek to minimize those risks in four ways:
(i) a major part of the reform agenda will be implemented befr Board
presentation (this front-loading would provide reassuring signals to the
markets, and would increase confidence in the financial system);
(ii) the various SAL missions have briefed relevant multi-party
committees, at their request, so as to build further ownership and
commitment; (iii) an intense schedule of supervision missions has been
set up; and (iv) donor briefings and coordination meetings have been,
and will continue to be, regularly organized. Donor-sponsored, SAL-
related TA is forthcoming and, in some cases, is already under
implementation.
Schedule of               - US$ 40 million immediately after loan effectiveness (expected in
Disbursement                October 1996).
- US$ 40 million to be disbursed upon satisfaction of second tranche
release conditions (expected about March 1997).
Rate of Return            Not applicable
Poverty Category          Not applicable
Appraisal Report          Not applicable
Project ID Number         LT-PA-44056
Map                       IBRD No. 26177
Vice President                             Mr. Johannes F. Linn
Director                                   Mr. Basil G. Kavalsky
Division Chief                             Mr. James Q. Harrison
Sr. Country Economist/Task Manager         Mr. Marcelo Giugale



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART  I. COUNTRY  CONTEXT  AND  POLICIES ......................................................                                        1
A) Background ......................................................1
B) Recent Economic Developments .....................................................2 
C) Fundamental Factors Behind the Current Economic Difficulties ..................................4
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM ................................ 6
A)  General Objectives .....................................................6
B)  Main Sectoral Policies: Proposed and Under Implementation ........................................6
i)   Banking .....................................................6
ii)  Energy .....................................................                                                    11
iii) Agriculture ..................................................... 14
iv)  Social Insurance .....................................................                                          17
C)  The Program's Macroeconomic Envelope .....................................................                            20
i)   Macro Prospects .....................................................                                           21
ii)  External Debt and Financing Requirements .....................................................  23
PART III. THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) .                                                   .......................................... 25
A)  The CAS Objectives and the SAL .....................................................                                  25
B)  Bank Group's Assistance to Date .....................................................                                 25
C)  The Lending Program  .....................................................                                            26
D)  Coordination of External Assistance, MIGA  and IFC  Activities ...................................28
PART IV. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN ..................................... 29
A)  Rationale and Objectives .....................................................                                        29
B)  Benefits and Risks .....................................................                                              30
C)  Tranche Release Conditions and Supervision .....................................................                        30
D)  Implementation and Technical Assistance .....................................................     31
E)  Financial Arrangements .....................................................                                          33
F)  Creditworthiness .....................................................                                                33
G)  Coordination with the IMF ...................................................... 34
H)  Poverty Implications .....................................................                                            34
I)   Environmental Impact .....................................................                                           34
PART  V. RECOMMENDATION  ..................................................... 35



2
ANN:XF-S
Annex 1      Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Table 2: Balance of Payments
Table 3: Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 2      Status of Bank Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations
Annex 3      Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 4      External Financing Requirements
Annex 5      Letter of Development Policy
Annex 6      Government's Policy Program
Box 1        Lithuania - Estimated Cost of Banking Restructuring (million litae)
Box 2        Lithuania - Government Budget for Agriculture (million litae)
Box 3        Lithuania - SoDra's Accounts
Box 4        Lithuania - Estimated State Budget (million litae)
Box 5        Lithuania - Lending Program
Box 6        Lithuania - Project Risks and Mitigation Measures
Box 7        Lithuania - SAL - Matrix of Policy Conditionality
MAP
IBRD No. 26177



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Lithuania in the amount of US$ 80 million in
support of the Government's economic reform program. The loan would be at the Bank's
standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for fixed-rate US dollar single
currency loans with an expected disbursement period of 0-3 years, and would be disbursed in
two tranches: US$ 40 million immediately after loan effectiveness, and US$ 40 million to be
disbursed upon satisfaction of second tranche release conditions (expected about March 1997).
2.    The Republic of Lithuania became a member of the IBRD on July 6, 1992; IFC on
January 15, 1993; and MIGA on June 8, 1993.
PART I. COUNTRY CONTEXT AND POLICIES
A.    Background
3.    Lithuania is the southernmost and largest Baltic country, with a territory of 65,200
square kilometers and a population of 3.7 million people. It lies on the eastern shores of the
Baltic Sea, sharing borders with Latvia to the north, Belarus to the east and Poland and the
Kaliningrad region of Russia to the south. The capital is Vilnius, with a population of about
600,000. More than 80 percent of the people are of Lithuanian origin. Lithuania does not have
abundant natural resources. It has some minerals used mainly in the construction industry
(quartz, sand, limestone, dolomite, clay), peat deposits, and insignificant oil reserves.
4.    Lithuania's annexation by the Soviet Union after World War HI resulted in a forced and
radical transformation of its economy. The country was fully incorporated into the Soviet
centrally-planned command system and, by the mid-1950s, its economy was characterized by
rapid industrialization, brought about by high rates of capital formation and forced labor
movements from agriculture to industry. Lithuania's comparatively well-developed
infrastructure and skilled work-force motivated central planners to establish some relatively
sophisticated industries in the country, including various branches of textile, leather, machine-
building and metal-work. Central planners also established in Lithuania the Baltic's only oil
refinery and nuclear power plant.
5.    During the 1980s, the limitations of the centrally-planned development model became
increasingly visible. Between 1982 and 1989, Lithuania's real gross domestic product (GDP)
grew on average by a relatively modest 3 percent per year, despite high levels of investment of
around 30 percent of GDP throughout the period. The technologies employed in civil industries
fell increasingly behind those in the industrialized countries of the West (and, as a consequence,
the environment suffered more than in the West). The gradual relaxation of central planning by
the Soviet authorities in the second half of the 1980s did not succeed in stimulating an economic



2
revival. Instead, increasing political and economic turmoil in the Soviet Union led Lithuania's
economy into an unprecedented crisis.
6.     On March 11, 1990, Lithuania declared the re-establishment of its independence, and
gained international recognition in September 1991 after the failed coup in Moscow. Lithuania
has not become part of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).
7.     Soon after its declaration of independence, Lithuania launched a market-based economic
reform program that has so far achieved substantial results. Price liberalization, voucher
privatization, trade opening, legal reform, institutional development, and social safety net
enhancement either have been implemented or are under implementation. Policies in the real
sector have been underpinned by a front-loaded stabilization effort under an IMF Extended
Fund Facility (EFF) arrangement (and two preceding Stand-by operations): a currency board
was introduced, financial markets were freed, the capital account was thrown open, and fiscal
deficits were brought under control.
8.     A second generation of adjustment problems has now emerged that threatens the results
achieved so far, and raises serious doubts about the medium-term growth prospects of the
country. Barring a major additional policy initiative backed by foreign resources, Lithuania's
current stabilization program, the anchor of its development strategy, could become
unsustainable. The erosion in the banking system's capital base (estimated at over Lt 1 billion,
or about half the size of the money base) has compromised the bulk of the system's deposits.
The country is experiencing serious banking problems, with critical spill-overs to the rest of the
economy. In the short-term, a sharp liquidity contraction has forced enterprises to start
accumulating energy, tax, social insurance and wage payment arrears, as an alternative means
of financing; this, in turn, has put tremendous pressure on the fiscal accounts. In the medium-
term, financial disintermediation, confidence-driven reductions in investment (especially
foreign), and risk-related increases in term interest rates will all dampen growth prospects.
9.     The situation in the local banking system  is, however, the symptom  of broader
imbalances in the real economy (notably, in the so-called "quasi-public" sector--see below), and
is made worse by ineffective supervision and poor banking practices. In the end, putting
Lithuania on a fast and sustainable growth path will take more than bank restructuring: it will
also take major structural reform in the energy, agriculture and social insurance sectors.
10.    The Lithuanian authorities understand the urgency of the situation and are determined to
take preemptive action to avoid a broader economic crisis.
B.    Recent Economic Developments
11.    Apart from the financial distress affecting Lithuania's banking sector since the last days
of 1995 (see below), the past year has produced mixed results for the country's economy. After
a sluggish first quarter, the economy grew over the year as a whole, albeit at a slower pace than
previously anticipated (annual real GDP growth of 2.7 percent, rather than 5 percent). Most of
the expansion was concentrated in the agricultural and industry sectors and was complemented
by a recovery in trade (their value added increased by 18, 7 and 4 percent, respectively, in
1995). Preliminary indications show, however, a significant, cross-sectoral slow-down in
growth during the first quarter of 1996, mostly associated with the 'credit crunch' that followed



3
the rapid deterioration in the banking situation. In the first quarter of 1996, real GDP
experienced a contraction of about 13 percent with respect to the last quarter of 1995; this was
caused not only by a seasonal decline in agriculture, but also by sharp falls in industrial output
and trade. Preliminary estimates for the second quarter show a significant rebound in industrial
sales and retail trade turnover, resulting in 3 and 1 percent increases, respectively, in the first
half of 1996 compared to the same period a year earlier.
12.   Price stabilization has proved an elusive objective. Although the currency board
arrangement is in place [the Bank of Lithuania (BoL) was a net foreign exchange buyer during
1995], CPI inflation declined but remained high at about 36 percent over 1995 (down from 45
percent over 1994). Inflation has slowed down significantly in the first half of 1996, especially
in May and June (0.3 and 0.4 percent per month, the lowest in the Baltics). This resulted in CPI
inflation for the period January-June 1996 of 10.3 percent p.a. (June 1995 - June 1996: 28
percent p.a.). Although they represent an improvement over past performance, those inflation
levels have led to a continuation in the appreciation of the real exchange rate, particularly in
relation to trading partners outside the Former Soviet Union (appreciation in the overall real
effective exchange rate is currently estimated at about 45 percent over April 1994, when the
currency board was introduced). Interest rates have followed a bumpy pattern so far in 1996;
per annum rates on Treasury Bills (TB) went up sharply from 20 percent at the end of 1995 to
about 40 percent in March of 1996 (in line with the deterioration in the banking situation), and
fell to a low of 17 percent in May. They have recently risen again (to almost 30 percent in July)
as confidence-driven demand for TBs, especially from abroad, shrank.
13.    Fiscal policy has remained conservative. The general government's financial deficit
(excluding privatization proceeds) and its net lending for 1995 stayed broadly within
programmed targets (Lt 488 million and Lt 580 million, or 2.2 and 2.6 percent of the official
GDP estimate, respectively), except for the last quarter when a Lt 70 million overrun of the
financial deficit vis--vis the EFF agreement took place. However, the overall budget deficit
stayed within its target as the Government lowered its onlending operations by Lt 120 million.
Current revenues (at about 32.5 percent of GDP) have been slightly higher than current
expenditures, primarily due to improvements in tax collection, and total revenues now cover 95
percent of total expenditure. Most recently, the dislocation in the banking system, and the
ensuing difficulties to finance the fiscal deficit through TB issues, have led the authorities to
take a drastic cash-based expenditure control policy: the Government virtually froze all public
investment outlays during the first half of 1996. As a consequence, the financial deficit turned
out to be lower than originally budgeted (Lt 309 million compared to the Lt 340 million
originally budgeted).
14.   The external account results of 1995 were broadly as expected: a current account deficit
(without transfers) of about US$ 250 million, or 4.5 percent of GDP. Although trade data
quality is a major issue in Lithuania, exports and imports of goods are estimated to have grown
in dollar terms by about 15 percent each over the year. Most of the growth in trade came from
re-export-bound imports (re-exports accounted for two-thirds of total exports in 1995). The first
quarter of 1996 shows a continuation of this trend.
15.   Banking problems have dominated events in Lithuania's financial markets since the last
days of 1995. In December of that year, the BoL suspended all the operations of (i.e., declared
a "moratorium" on) the country's largest private bank (Innovation) and its would-be merger
partner (Litimpex) due, primarily, to serious capital inadequacy and portfolio quality problems.



4
Those suspensions followed Government interventions in support of two other private banks
earlier in the year (Vakaru and Aura). Financial markets reacted rapidly: shifts in deposits
(toward state-controlled banks, where deposits are guaranteed by the Civil Code) created
liquidity problems for relatively solid banks: interest rates on TBs almost doubled; the
interbank market came to a complete standstill; and significant net foreign outflows took place
(worth about US$ 150 million vis-a-vis the BoL's end-November gross foreign exchange
reserves of US$ 750 million), all of which put pressure on the currency board arrangement.
More recently, various Government initiatives to tackle the banking sector's problems restored
a relative calm to the financial markets; the BoL was again a net buyer of foreign exchange in
May and June, and is targeting to regain its foreign reserves levels of end-November 1995 by
the end of 1996.
16.    However, negative spill-overs to the rest of the economy have been significant. The
currency board converted the foreign exchange outflows into a contraction in reserve money
and, thus, in broad money (by about 11 percent over the first five months of the year). This
resulted in a 'credit crunch' that drove enterprises (deeper) into payment arrears, especially in
regards to energy and social insurance contributions. LPC, the state power and heating
company, reported a sharp increase in customer arrears (from Lt 214 million in November 1995
to about Lt 350 million at the end of August 1996); a similar pattern is observed in payroll tax
contributions, particularly social insurance payments (the Social Insurance Administrative
Authority's--SoDra--projected surplus for the first quarter of 1996 turned out to be a deficit of
Lt 57 million).
17.    Parliament moved quickly to pass legislation in an attempt to support the banking
system's stability. That legislation included: an individual partial deposit protection scheme for
all banks; a one-year-long guarantee pledge on interbank lending (for a maximum total value of
Lt 300 million); an implicit pledge of state assets to fully provide for Innovation's and
Litimpex's creditors; and a law to reduce shareholders' voting rights in troubled banks. More
recently, Parliament approved several additional laws allowing for: a public take-over of
Innovation Bank conditional on a minimum of private equity participation; the issuance of
Treasury Securities for bank recapitalization; the abolition of the December 29, 1995 law
granting special protection to creditors of Innovation and Litimpex; and the establishment of a
loan "Work-Out Unit" (named "Property Bank"). In early June, the Government allowed
Litimpex to restart operations without any kind of state assistance and subject to certain
safeguards.
18.    Although these measures temporarily restored a relative sense of calm to the financial
market, they dealt more with the symptoms than the causes of the crisis, and carry a potentially
large fiscal cost. Furthermore, the Government decided to allow the 'moratoriumed' banks to
propose their own rescue packages; the latter have not proved realistic, and the elapsed time has
further weakened the financial position of those institutions. The situation remains fragile, and
the Government's next step is to implement a fundamental reform in both the banking industry
itself and in the various real sectors that are linked to it.
C.    Fundamental Factors Behind the Current Economic Difficulties
19.    Two root factors lie behind Lithuania's banking and, more generally, macroeconomic
imbalances. The first one is the operating deficit of the "quasi-public" sector, that is, the



5
aggregate financial performance of the general government, the public energy sector,
"strategic" public enterprises, farmers, pensioners, and politically-favored private firms.
Before the introduction of the currency board arrangement in April 1994, that quasi-public
sector financed its operating deficit through money printing. At the margin, inflation tax
revenues paid for items like subsidized heating, enterprise tax arrears, cheap agricultural credit,
and unfunded pensions.
20.    The establishment of a currency board shifted that marginal financing source: a mix of
debt (domestic and foreign) and erosion of the banking system's capital base substituted for
inflation. Since, as part of the EFF-related ceilings, limits were imposed on debt accumulation,
the aggregate capital of the local banks became the marginal source of finance. Political
intervention in public and private banks' credit decisions, usually coupled with cross-ownership
problems, was the main mechanism to "direct" resources from banks toward public policy
objectives.
21.    The second root factor was the lack of support for the banking supervision function
combined with poor bank corporate governance. Although Lithuania's regulatory environment
for bank operations (i.e., capital adequacy, liquidity, connected lending and other prudential
ratios) is broadly in line with international practice, it is hardly enforced. None of the major
currently operating banks is in full regulatory compliance, even under the country's relatively
lenient accounting standards, and relatively few sanctions have been applied. Weak supervision
has been compounded by weak internal controls within banks. Inadequate ownership and
representation rules have protected imprudent, and sometimes fraudulent, management practices
(notably, in terms of connected lending).
22.    Quasi-public sector financing through the banking system  and imprudent banking
practices have now come to a forced end. On the one hand, the capital base of many local banks
is exhausted (and deeply negative). On the other, and more importantly, very little until now
has been achieved to adjust the above-the-line budget of the quasi-public sector (in spite of the
country's substantial transition progress in other areas). For example: no major efficiency gains
in energy production; insufficient increases in pension retirement ages; increasing subsidies to
farmers; and no hard budget constraints to public-sector-dependent enterprises. The sector did
not manage to use the banking capital financing, or, for that matter, the then-available foreign
financing, to adjust itself.



6
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
A.    General Objectives
23.   The ultimate objective of Lithuania's reform program (and of the proposed SAL that
will support it) is to put the economy on a path of rapid and sustainable growth, as a means to
permanently reduce poverty. At present, reaching that path requires (i) solving the banking
system's current operational and under-capitalization problems, and (ii) eliminating the most
serious sectoral imbalances in the rest of the economy (which contribute to the bank capital
erosion), especially in the energy, agriculture and social security sectors. Both objectives are
mutually reinforcing, for three reasons. First, real-side policy reforms would be more difficult
(if not impossible) to implement in the midst of a banking sector collapse. Second, more
prudent banking would foster financial discipline and adjustment in the rest of the economy.
And, third, removing inefficiencies and distortions in the key real sectors would help banks
recover non-performing debt, as well as rebuild their earning capacity in the post-restructuring
era.
24.    What would happen if nothing is done rapidly to bring adjustment to the accounts of the
quasi-public sector, and to restore solvency and effective supervision in the banking system?
The first distinct possibility is a full blown banking crisis; depositors would lose their savings
to, de facto, validate the financing already given to the broad public sector via bank capital
erosion. But, more importantly, since the operating deficit of the sector would still exist, the
Government would have no choice but to "inflate its way through" (i.e., abandon the currency
board arrangement to allow for discretionary printing of money). The stabilization results
achieved so far would be lost. In effect, poverty would worsen as the burden of financing the
broad public sector would fall on those whose nominal income (and wealth) do not
instantaneously adjust for inflation. This would have critical spill-over effects in the real sectors
as support for policy action may weaken, and badly needed structural reforms may get delayed
(or reversed). Slow (or negative) growth would in all likelihood accompany high and
accelerating inflation.
B.    Main Sectoral Policies: Proposed and Under Implementation
i) Banking
25.   Rationale and Objectives.   Lithuania's banking system  is in urgent need of
restructuring and of more effective supervision. Out of 13 banks currently in operation, few
meet minimum capital adequacy levels, even under the relatively more lenient local accounting
standards. The three state-controlled banks, which together carry half of the system's deposits,
are grossly undercapitalized, a position that has sharply deteriorated since the third quarter of
1995. The Government reacted on a case-by-case basis to bank failures (e.g., Vakaru, Aura,
Innovation, Litimpex); it concentrated on individualized efforts to keep liquidity flowing, rather
than exacting capital injections or liquidations. More recently, the BoL requested remedial plans
from five banks that were not in compliance with prudential regulations, but few concrete
actions followed.
26.   Over the last two years, the system has come under increasing strain due to a number of
factors. Within the banks themselves, there have been extremely weak lending skills Oeading to



7
an accumulation of non-performing loans), some fraud and insider abuse, and a tendency for
banks to overreach themselves in terms of asset volume (and, probably, in terms of branch
networks, too). Outside the banks, the supervisory function in the BoL, although significantly
improved in recent years, remained impotent in the face of the speed of developments in the
banking sector at large. Weak accounting and provisioning rules compound the problems in the
sector, and hide its true solvency condition. The Government's practice of forcing banks to lend
on non-market terms for social and political reasons aggravated the problem. Inconsistent and
inappropriate laws have been enacted governing deposit protection, distorting competition
among banks, and fostering imprudent banking practices (i.e., increasing "moral hazard").
27.    Thus, the proposed reform package includes the implementation of a detailed banking
sector restructuring plan, designed by the authorities with joint support from three World Bank
SAL preparation missions and IMF staff. The plan has two main objectives: restoring solvency
to the banking industry, and establishing and enforcing a new legal and regulatory framework
("new rules of the game") to foster prudent and efficient banking practices.
28.    Restructuring Lithuania's Banking Sector.   Within the banking sector, three
categories of banks can at present be distinguished: state-controlled banks; banks under some
form of BoL administration; and the remaining private banks. The three state-controlled banks
(Agricultural Bank, State Commercial Bank, and Savings Bank) account for about half of total
banking system deposits. All three banks are believed to be insolvent. Each has a large branch
network with evidence of significant overstaffing. Although each bank has a minority private
shareholding, they were regularly used as instruments of public policy through their allocation
of credit.
29.    There are currently three banks under some form of BoL administrative control (Aura,
Vakaru and Innovation; the moratorium on Litimpex was lifted on June 7--see below). These
banks have been determined to be insolvent, and have been placed "under moratorium"
(suspension of all, or part of, operations). In aggregate, these banks account for about a quarter
of total banking deposits.
30.    The remaining ten private banks account for a quarter of the system's deposits. Some
are well run and could develop into the core of the future banking system. Others are weakly
capitalized and could encounter difficulties in the near term.
31.    Thus, the Government is faced at this juncture with the challenge of how to restructure
a banking sector in which banks commanding about three quarters of the system's assets and
liabilities are believed to be insolvent. The strategic decisions that the authorities are confronted
with revolve around whether to liquidate or rehabilitate banks in difficulty and, in each case,
which parties should carry the costs (shareholders, creditors--including depositors--or the
Government itself). In parallel, there are also a number of "infrastructural" issues (i.e., issues
relating to the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework for banks), whose resolution will
dictate the future growth and strength of the restructured banking sector.
32.    After considering various restructuring options, the Government has decided to adopt a
three-tier plan: (i) it will recapitalize, restructure and privatize the existing state-controlled
banks; (ii) private banks currently under moratorium will either be recapitalized with private
funds; closed; or taken over, recapitalized by the state ('wiping out' the value of existing
stockholdings), and privatized; and (iii) liquidation will be forced upon any currently-operating



8
private banks that do not meet solvency standards. The details of the plan, whose
implementation timing is at the core of the SAL conditionality (see the attached Government's
Policy Program in Annex 6), are summarized below:
*  Any bank that does not meet all prudential rules as of December 31, 1996, will have its
license revoked by January 31, 1997. The BoL has reached agreements with four private
and one state-owned bank regarding plans to achieve compliance on time. The other two
state-owned banks will be recapitalized prior to December 31, 1996.
*  All private banks currently undergoing bankruptcy procedures will have their licenses
immediately revoked (for six such banks, this was achieved in mid-July 1996).
*  Aura Bank will have its license revoked and will be relicensed as a bank ("Turto Bank")
with limited banking powers. The new bank's sole purpose is to become the "Work-Out
Unit" for assets purchased from banks undergoing restructuring using public funds and will
be 100 percent owned by the Government. This entity will have a limited banking license
and will not be allowed to accept deposits or perform any banking services other than those
related to the collection of the transferred assets. Although Seimas recently passed the
necessary legislation to establish Turto Bank, several of its key operational policies remain
to be determined through regulations (e.g., the criteria to define and transfer "bad" loans;
the coverage and duration of the transfer program) whose acceptability to the World Bank
will be part of the SAL program.
*  Regular bankruptcy and liquidation procedures have been initiated for Vakaru Bank (as per
the SAL Board presentation conditions--see Box 7), and its license has been revoked.
*  Innovation Bank will either be restructured by the end of 1996 or face revocation of its
license as well as bankruptcy procedures. Seimas recently passed a law conditionally
eliminating the provisions of the December 29, 1995, law that grants full state guarantee to
this bank's creditors. If at least 40 percent of the large private deposits of this bank are
converted into equity by December 1, 1996, the Government will be enabled to contribute
to the recapitalization in order to bring the bank into full regulatory compliance. If that
minimum deposit conversion is not achieved, the full state guarantee of creditors and the
bank's license will be immediately revoked, and bankruptcy procedures will be initiated.
*  Litimpex Bank was allowed to restart operations on June 10, 1996. The BoL determined the
bank met all prudential regulations based on the bank's records, without examination or
independent verification. Special "safeguards" were put in place: 80 percent of the deposits
were voluntarily extended in maturity at below-market interest rates; daily monitoring of all
activities by BoL is in place; the Government has agreed to prohibit dividend distribution
and management bonuses until the bank complies with all prudential rules under
International Accounting Standards (IAS); and, as the bank's temporary administration was
withdrawn, the full state guarantee given to its creditors by the above-mentioned December
29, 1995, law was automatically nullified. The bank itself has imposed certain controls: it
has not yet resumed lending; has set up a loan work-out unit; and has asked for technical
assistance (TA) from bilateral donors. The BoL will examine Litimpex by October 1996; in
the event the bank fails to meet all prudential rules, the BoL is committed to the immediate
closure and revocation of this bank's license.



9
The State Commercial and Savings Banks have recently been recapitalized by the state and
the value of the stock of existing shareholders has been appropriately diluted; the
recapitalization will have an estimated final cost of Lt 630 million (see Box 1), and will
bring those banks into full compliance with existing regulations. New management has been
appointed in the case of State Commercial Bank; institutional development is underway
through twinning arrangements with foreign banks (Bank of Ireland for State Commercial
and Allied Irish Bank for Savings); and the two banks' "bad" loan portfolios will be bought
by the so-called 'Property Bank". The Government intends to make specific public
commitment to privatize those banks in the near future, and will prepare and announce
corresponding privatization plans, acceptable to the World Bank.
*  The restructuring of the Agricultural Bank is proceeding as envisaged under the World
Bank-supported Private Agriculture Development Project. Its recapitalization is also on-
going (at an expected cost of about Lt 100 million) primarily through conversion of
agricultural support credit funds.
*  The total cost of the proposed banking sector restructuring plan (excluding financing cost,
the recapitalization of Agricultural Bank, and possible privatization proceeds) is estimated
to be Lt 1.045 billion (about 3.5 percent of projected official 1996 GDP). A significant part
of the cost will be covered by special Treasury Securities; the balance, needed to sustain
liquidity, will be effected through cash transfers from the State's budget. A law allowing
the Government to issue the Treasury Securities has recently been passed by Seimas; under
the proposed SAL, the interest formula and terms for those securities has been agreed with
the World Bank. Box I presents the details of the estimated cost of the banking sector
restructuring plan.
*  Specific changes (detailed in the attached Government's Policy Program in Annex 6) in the
Banking Law, and in its implementing regulations, will provide a new set of "rules of the
game" for the post-restructuring era, in order to foster prudent and transparent banking;
improve BoL supervision; and make corporate governance more effective. Civil Code
provisions granting full protection to deposits in state-controlled banks will be abolished.
IAS will be adopted for all regulatory purposes as of January 1, 1997 (the formal
announcement of this adoption has already been made). The participation of foreign banks
in the domestic market for banking services will be actively sought; Seimas has recently
passed an amendment to the banking law allowing those banks to open branches or affiliates
in Lithuania.
* TA is being mobilized to facilitate the implementation of the overall banking sector
restructuring plan; assure efficient operation and privatization of the state-controlled banks;
and improve the banking supervision function of the BoL. Parts of that TA are already
being delivered (e.g., SIDA's assistance in the setting up of the "Property Bank"; EU-
sponsored twinning arrangements for State Commercial and Savings Banks; USAID-
financed resident advisors at BoL supervision department; etc.).



t i:f:E.                           ..     .     .   .  ::  ......     .. . . .. . . :)  ..     .....   . .   . . .   .   ..     . .   .    .    .    ..
rit ~ ~ ~~ -~                                                                                                                         I t10Eti5[|t!t  g0ttf         :    
>~~~~~~~~.                     .   ..   . . .   . .                      .   . . . .
g~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ..  ... .....XW
n Arr  X  f 9g'                                              t                                                      t~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  r
:e                   VA ::                       .... .                                                                     l:o :    :
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
th~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
~~ ~~AM                                   <2~~A
g      :*:                                                  g                                                                                4,_na    -o,
rA                                                                                                                     a 
a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  C- 8lt                                                       o      0
O-R~-
CA   -J  ~~~~~~i~~o                                                                                    ;:~~~~~~0o¶s9t~ S
o                         C                          C~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t~~~a                                          0:at 0  M
-  -    a                                                                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t      h  o s  =0S  5



11
ii) Energy
33.   Rationale and General Objectives. Distortions in the energy sector are probably the
single most serious threat to Lithuania's macroeconomic balance. Outdated technology,
inefficient pricing, weak payment enforcement, and direct political intervention drive public
energy companies into chronic financial deficits, and provide little incentive for profit-driven
management or energy conservation. The magnitudes involved are large: LPC's turnover alone
is equivalent to about 7 percent of the country's GDP, and the spill-overs to the rest of the
economy are substantial. Indeed, it can be argued that many of the energy-intensive production
activities that Lithuania inherited from the Soviet era would be unsustainable if energy inputs
were priced at their full economic cost and energy bills were fully collected. Explicit and
implicit subsidies to the energy sector are, in effect, a support system for those parts of the
economy that have yet to make their market transition. But, most critically, the sector
represents a massive drain to the fiscal accounts.
34.   In the short run, the energy sector faces the immediate problem of financing its working
capital requirements. Up until the end of August 1996, the sector suffered from late or non-
payment of debts from final domestic consumers of around Lt 380 million, representing an
average 51 days worth of billing. This problem is compounded by the Government's failure to
pay the accumulated production subsidies due to LPC for the difference between tariffs and
production costs in district heating during the 1994-1996 period. LPC's own estimate of this
subsidy-related debt is Lt 772 million. As a result, the sector is in arrears with its own input
suppliers, most of which are foreign (e.g., Lt 106 million in overdue payments are owed to
Russian companies for gas deliveries).
35.    Medium-term prospects are not significantly better as the sector's level of operational
efficiency remains inadequate. In the end, financial viability will have to be based on cost
rationalization, rather than on continuous price increases, for Lithuania's average household to
be able to afford basic energy consumption, for its industries to have access to reasonably-
priced energy inputs, and for the country's energy exports to remain competitive.
36.    The reform package proposed here is centered around two objectives: restoring the
immediate financial viability of the energy sector, and achieving major efficiency gains through
commercialization, institutional reform and, where feasible, privatization. Those objectives
complement and support the on-going World Bank-supported Power Rehabilitation Project for
Lithuania, which deals directly, and at the firm level, with the restructuring and efficiency-
enhancement of LPC.
37.   Restoring Financial Viability.  This will be achieved with three instruments: a
timebound program for the elimination of customer arrears; efficient pricing coupled with
subsidy rationalization; and a plan for the settlement of external arrears.
38.    As explained above, the energy sector had until very recently arrears in payments from
consumers worth about Lt 350 million for electricity and heat, and about Lt 30 million for gas
(excluding LPC's debt to Lithuanian Gas). Almost half of those overdue payments are owed by
state-controlled and municipal organizations; the rest belonged to households and private
enterprises (including agricultural ones). This non-payment of consumer debt has caused
significant "knock-on" effects within the sector; LPC is itself in arrears with the Ignalina



12
Nuclear Power Plant (INPP) and with Lithuanian Gas, forcing them to draw down on inventory
of nuclear fuel, postpone maintenance and safety improvement, and to delay or default on
payments to their mostly foreign import suppliers, endangering the country's supply of energy.
39.    The Government has already taken steps toward addressing the payments problem.
Repayment plans have been established for late paying industrial enterprises and budgetary
institutions. In addition, the Government has passed a decree allowing LPC and Lithuanian Gas
to impose sanctions on consumers in arrears for electricity, heat and gas (including
disconnection, penalties and recourse to courts). Until the problems in the banking sector
erupted, the level of payment arrears had improved considerably vis-a-vis January 1995.
However, that improvement has been difficult to sustain, on two accounts. First, a significant
part of the debt reduction was achieved by canceling public enterprises' arrears with LPC
against LPC's previous debts to the Government (since much of that debt was on-lending of
foreign loans, the cancellation effectively amounts to using foreign sovereign loans to pay for
the energy consumption of state-controlled corporations). Second, as explained before, the
banking crisis led to a major 'credit crunch', forcing companies to further use arrears as an
alternative source of finance.
40.    To avoid such deterioration, under the proposed SAL, the Government's program
envisages that, by second tranche: (i) all accounts receivable for electricity and heat (by both
budgetary and non-budgetary organizations and private agents) will be reduced to no more than
30 days worth of billing; (ii) accounts receivable for gas by state and municipal budgetary
organizations (except LPC) will be reduced to no more than 30 days worth of billing;
(iii) accounts receivable for gas by all other consumers (except LPC) will be reduced to no
more than 45 days worth of billing; and (iv) a law will be enacted obliging the Ministry of
Finance to withhold from its regular transfers to state and municipal budgetary organizations the
necessary amounts to assure that those organizations' debts to LPC and Lithuanian Gas do not
exceed 30 days worth of billing.
41.    Efficient pricing and subsidy rationalization will be the second instrument in restoring
the financial viability of the energy sector. The Energy Law (1995) has established the
framework for an Energy Pricing Commission (EPC) to regulate price-setting in the sector, but
the Commission was until recently not fully operational. As part of the SAL-supported reform
program, a pre-defined pricing methodology has been developed and the Commission is being
staffed to fulfill its required regulatory functions. Implementation of the price setting formula
should then be undertaken by March 1997, together with the introduction of adequate legislation
to establish the independence of EPC. In addition, during the 1995 heating season, the
authorities introduced a consumer subsidy scheme whereby the state compensates households
that spend more than 15 percent of their income on heating (and 5 percent on hot water), within
certain limits in terms of family size, square footage of the property, and metering availability.
42.    Under the proposed reform program, the Government will also increase energy prices
to cost-recovery levels, will do away with all producer subsidies, and will keep subsidization to
the minimum possible and exclusively focused on poor residential consumers. Specifically, the
authorities raised average effective heating tariffs by 25 percent; the formal executive decision



13
to effect that increase was taken and announced on June 6, 1996 (coinciding with the summer
season). This would increase LPC's annual revenues by approximately Lt 250 million and
should, via other cost-cutting efforts (see below), allow the company to operate without losses
and, therefore, without need for direct budget support. Even though higher prices may bring
about higher heating bills with more households qualifying for heating consumption subsidy, it
is estimated that a net saving of at least Lt 100 million per annum will accrue to the State
budget. The reason behind this saving is the progressive redistribution of higher heat bills
toward those that do not qualify for subsidy (enterprises and higher income households).
43.   Finally, restoration of financial viability will call for the comprehensive settlement of
external arrears. In particular, partly as a consequence of LPC's falling into arrears for its own
gas consumption (by about Lt 60 million), Lithuanian Gas and the Government have
accumulated overdue debts with suppliers in the order of Lt 110 million. As a result, Lithuania
has experienced serious interruptions in delivery. As part of its reform program, then, the
Government has recently ensured that LPC agrees on a plan (and begins to implement it) for the
repayment of its debt to Lithuanian Gas (this should be a feasible objective for LPC, as it would
coincide with the above-mentioned increase in heating prices). In addition, LPC is currently
owed about Lt 30 million by its foreign customers for electricity exports (the latter are expected
to account for about a third of total electricity sales in 1996). Government policy is to seek the
same payment collection discipline on external electricity consumers that is to be applied to
domestic ones.
44.    Cutting Costs and Increasing Efficiency. Several tools will be used by the authorities
to force cost rationalization and efficiency enhancement in the energy sector. First, better and
more transparent accounting will be introduced. The Government has recently instructed LPC,
Lithuanian Gas, Lithuanian Fuel, Ignalina and Mazeikiai to start the implementation of IAS.
Those companies should produce unaudited IAS accounts for 1996 by March 1997; in the case
of LPC, the actual introduction of IAS is already underway. In addition, for accounting
purposes, LPC will identify "cost centers" for which it will establish appropriate transfer prices
and "unbundled" accounts. These cost centers will be focused around LPC's main functions:
generation, transmission, distribution and district heating.
45.    Second, management performance will be improved. Management performance audits
have already been launched for LPC and Lithuanian Gas. Implementation of those audits'
recommendations will start in March, 1997. This should make it possible to establish clear
management performance targets for the various "cost centers" within LPC, as well as for
Lithuanian Gas, by March 31, 1997.
46.   Third, corporate governance will be improved. Significant steps in this direction have
already been taken through the separation of the roles of Deputy Energy Minister, Chairman of
LPC, and Managing Director of Mazeikiai, and through the incorporation, as joint stock
companies, of LPC, Lithuanian Gas, Lithuanian Fuel and Mazeikiai in 1995. To complement
those efforts, an Action Plan will be prepared with the objective of reducing the role of the
Government in the day-to-day operations of the industry, while exercising its result-oriented
role as shareholder; the plan should be under full implementation by March 1997.
47.    Fourth, decentralization will be extended. Progress toward decentralization of heat
production and distribution has already taken place (e.g., a pilot decentralization project is
underway in the Birzai municipality). The authorities will prepare a plan for the full



14
decentralization of district heating and, after assessing the different options, will begin
implementation by March 1997.
48.    Fifth, selected energy sector activities will be privatized. In particular, measures
acceptable to the World Bank will be taken by March 1997 in order to privatize LPC,
Mazeikiai, Lithuanian Gas' Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) business, the operation of the
Klaipeda Oil Terminal, and Lithuanian Fuel.
49.    Finally, transparent procurement rules will be introduced for LPC, Lithuanian Gas,
Ignalina, and Mazeikiai in accordance with internationally accepted standards. For that purpose,
a draft public procurement law has been sent to, and is being discussed in, Parliament.
iii) Agriculture
50.    Rationale and General Objectives. For years, the Government of Lithuania has been
transferring, directly or indirectly, massive amounts of resources to the agricultural sector.
This has probably made farming relatively more profitable, and may have offset some of the
transition adjustment costs, but it has not made agriculture more efficient or competitive. This
raises two main issues. First, in the face of more urgent competing needs for public funds
(notably to afford a comprehensive banking sector restructuring plan), the state needs to roll
back its agricultural support to make its own accounts (and, with them, the overall
macroeconomic framework) sustainable. Second, the sector (which receives not only major
resource transfers, but also the highest level of trade protection in the economy) needs to be put
under competitive pressure if it is to raise its efficiency to levels at which it could survive, and
profit from, integration with the EU (and, probably more relevant for the near future, with
CEFTA).
51.    Thus, the immediate objectives of the proposed agricultural reform package are three-
fold: rationalization of the existing agricultural support mechanisms; increasing the role of the
private sector in agriculture; and furthering the opening of the sector to international trade. The
package is designed to modify rapidly the most distorting provisions of current intervention
programs, and to initiate a longer term effort to develop a new policy strategy that deals more
broadly with current needs and future development.
52.    Rationalizing Agricultural Support. In 1995, the Government introduced a system of
minimum farm prices (called "minimum marginal purchase price"--MMPP), as well as a direct
subsidy scheme for a specified quantity of farm sales ("purchase quota"). In addition, the
authorities resorted to direct purchases ("domestic market regulation purchases") of beef, pork,
and butter in order to prop up prices artificially. These three kinds of interventions have
significantly and immediately distorted market incentives. In fact, artificially high prices have,
for some products, stimulated supply in excess of market demand and have created pressures for
the Government to purchase the surplus. Furthermore, the introduction of the minimum price
and subsidy program runs against the spirit of other recent, market-oriented policies
implemented by the authorities such as the removal of the restriction on processing margins for
agro-processors (1994) and the elimination of marketing margins for retail agro-enterprises
(April 1995).
53.    Thus, in order to consistently rationalize the domestic agricultural support system, the
Government has decided to:



15
(i) reduce the aggregate budget for agricultural subsidies by at least 4 percent in real terms
using previous-year CPI inflation, as per agreement under the World Bank Private Agriculture
Development Project (see Box 2) and as a Board presentation condition for the proposed SAL;
(ii) also as a SAL Board presentation condition, refrain from increasing MMPP for each
product covered in the 1996 program by more than 75 percent of the CPI inflation rate
projected in the State's budget for the year in question;
(iii) set the quotas for flax and barley not higher than their 1996 levels; set the quota for sugar
beet to no more than I million metric tons (mt), for buckwheat to no more than 12,000 mt, for
rapeseed to no more than 30,000 mt, and for the aggregate of grains (excluding buckwheat) and
feed legumes to no more than 650,000 mt. The quotas for milk and meat will not be increased
by more than 5 percent per year, and up to a maximum equal to 80 percent of their 1990
production levels;
(iv) refrain from expanding the list of products covered by the MMPP-subsidy-quota program;
(v) develop, by March 1997, a comprehensive and consistent domestic agricultural policy
strategy. This will eliminate the MMPP system, relying (if necessary) only on targeted
programs and direct payments. This strategy will be consistent with an open trade policy regime
and will place greater emphasis on integrated rural development measures, research, farmer
consultancy services, market information services, and the improvement of marketing
infrastructure and institutions.
54.   Increasing the Role of the Private Sector in Agriculture. As a consequence of the
land reform and asset privatization process that started in 1989, Lithuania has fundamentally
restructured the ownership of its agricultural production sector. As of January 1, 1995 there
were about 53,000 private farms holding about 15 percent of the available agricultural land;
400,000 household plots of two to three hectares accounting for almost a third; 2,300
"bendroves" farms (large-scale privatized farms organized in various forms of cooperatives and
partnerships) that lease and use another third; while most of the remaining land area is under
private lease. Nearly 130,000 farm plots have been surveyed, and 95,000 titles have been issued
to private farmers covering about 800,000 hectares (i.e., about two-thirds of privately owned
agricultural lands or a third of the country's total agricultural land).
55.    To continue the process of private-sector-led efficiency enhancement in the agricultural
sector, several key adjustments need to be made in the way land property rights can be
exercised in Lithuania. In particular, current impediments to continued farm restructuring
include limitations on the use of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes (beyond normal
zoning regulations); the constitutional limitation of agricultural land ownership to individuals
and the state; the slow process of completing land registration and issuing titles; preferences to
bendroves for certain land leases; and limitations on the transfer of partnership shares to non-
partners. Furthermore, completing the privatization of state-controlled upstream and
downstream enterprises in agriculture will be necessary for domestic private farming to access
and compete in the international markets.



16
Box 2. Lithuania - Government Bu*etforAgrkutwue (umi Won iae1)
1994     1995      1996
(original
:                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~budiget)      :  
1.     Financing of agricultural agencies     69.9      70.5      90.3
2.     Strategic food and seed services        12.5     29.2       27.5
3      Capital investment                       8.5      3.9       6.3
4      Agricultural land and forest purchased   0.0      0.0       50.0
by Govemrnent
5.     Ministry of Agriculture operations       3.2      4.2       6.8
6.     National Agriculture Programr          202.9    305.5     412.9
6.1    Farm price subsidies                   27.7    140.3      174.4
6.2    Net cost of intervention stocks   :     0.0     17.0       14.0
6.3    Subsidy for dairy mixes for babies      0.0      0.0        1.0
6.4    Credit programs                       101.7     34.6       33.7
6.4.1   Grant to credit fund for famers      22.1     25.0      12.0
6.4.2   Grant to credit fund for processors  79.6      5.0       0.0
6.4.3  Interestsubsidyforbanks                0.0      1.5       17.7
6.4.4  GTrantto creditfundforrlktg coops      0.0      3.1       4.0
6.5    Restructuring grants to fanners in low  0.0     13.8      24.0
productivity land
6.6    Farm establishment and infrastructure  37.0    .34.7      60.0
6.6.1   of %ich grants                      20.0      20.0      20.0
6.7    Subsidies for quality breeds and seeds  1.3      7.9      14.3
6.8    Liming of acid soils                    0.0     16.0       0.0
6.9    Financingofbreedingprogram              5.3     11.0       16.0
6.10   Agricultural research andextension      4.1      8.2       12.5
6.11   Dev. of organic production and          3.5      3.8       4.0
removal of pollution
6.12   Dev. of cooperation and agreservice     6.4      0.0      23.0
6.13   Other                                  15.9     18.3      36.0
Total                                         296.9    413.3     593.9
Memo items                                   1994      1995     1996       1997    :1998       1999     2000
(original             . . .
budget)
Total Agricultural Subsidies                  150.7   2133.6      281.4     337.7    382.5    411.3    434.3
as percent of total agricultural budget       50.8     56.5      47.4         0         **                0
State Budget Total Expenditures              3011.7   4356.0    5713.7    7351.7   8966.6.. 10388.1  11994.9
Agriculture budget percent                     9.9      9.5       10A.4                 **       **       *
Agriculture subsidies percent                  5.0      5.4       4.9   :   4.6        4       4, 0    3.6
State Budget Financial Balance               -294.6   -407.6    487.1    -685.6   -920.0  -1253.1I  -1596.8
Agriculture budgetpercent                  .-10.8   -101.4      -86.4                   **        *        *
Agriculture subsidies percent                -512     -57.3      41.0:   -49,3       -41.6     42,8    -27.2
GDP                                         16980.77  22230.3   29407.0   37005.7  44858.1. 5.1764.0. 59135.2
Agriculturebudgetpercent                       1.7      1.9       2.0         *         **       **       *
Agriculture subsidies percent                  0.9      1.1        1.0       0.9.      0.9      0;.8      0.7
Agricultural GDP                             1273.6   1734.0    2352.6    2960.5    3588.6   4141.1   4730.8
AgricuIlture budgetpercent                    23.3     23.8      252                    5* 1*             **
Agriculture subsidiespercent                  11.8     13.5      12.0       114 H10.7            9.       .2
'Includes items 6. 1,: 6.2, 6.3, 6.4,6., 6.6.1,: 6.7. T  projection impoes te programmed 4 percent t rea-t    annual decline.
Not available.



17
56.    Therefore, the Government will continue its current efforts to speed up the process of
completing land registration, and issuing titles for agricultural land. The Government has
recently reviewed registration procedures for associations and cooperatives of private farmers
and taken initial steps to shorten the registration time, so that small farmers can jointly buy
inputs, sell products, or invest in farm quality improvement technology. It will also develop and
publicly announce a plan and schedule to complete the privatization of remaining state-
controlled upstream and downstream enterprises in the agricultural sector and of the state's
minority stocks in such enterprises.
57.    Also, under the proposed reform program, by March 1997 the Government intends to:
(i) submit to Seimas a constitutional amendment that extends agricultural land ownership rights
to legal persons (not just natural persons); (ii) submit legislation to remove the regulation on
compulsory leasing to bendroves of private land on their borders, if the above-mentioned
constitutional amendment is passed; (iii) implement a privatization program for state-controlled,
upstream and downstream agricultural enterprises and for the state's minority stocks in those
enterprises; and (iv) submit legislation to make "farmer" shares in agro-service and agro-
processing enterprises tradable according to the same rules as other stock (after jointly
reviewing the situation in the market for agricultural shares with the World Bank).
58.    Furthering the Opening of the Agricultural Sector to International Trade. Despite
import tariffs ranging from 10 to 30 percent, some domestic agricultural product prices are still
not in equilibrium with world market prices. This suggests that policy-making needs to focus on
quality, variety, and improved marketing infrastructure (including market information), rather
than trade protection. Though there has been substantial liberalization of trade policies in recent
years, including the removal of most non-tariff barriers, periodic ad hoc trade restrictions are
still used. For example, measures introduced in 1995 included export subsidies for dairy
products for two months, a temporary export ban on pork, a temporary export licensing system
(effectively, a ban) for wheat and flour, and the extension of temporary bans on red clover seed
and raw hides and skins. More recently, under the IMF EFF agreement, the Government
eliminated the export ban on red clover and converted the remaining export bans into tariffs of
not more than 60 percent.
59.    The proposed reform package will eliminate all remaining non-tariff restrictions on
agricultural exports (notably, the requirements for Ministry of Agriculture permission for the
exportation of wheat and flour). The Government will not introduce new tariffs or non-tariff
import barriers, or export restrictions. Import tariffs for agricultural products will be reduced,
at least, according to the time schedule agreed with the IMF under the EFF arrangement (that
is, reducing average agricultural import tariffs to 20 percent by March 1997, and implementing
a schedule, to be agreed by December 1996, for the reduction of all export tariffs and of the
specific import tariff on sugar). Furthermore, the authorities will refrain from introducing
threshold prices or reference prices that are not in conformity with WTO provisions on customs
valuation. In the medium-term, the negotiation of commitments for WTO accession will be
finalized, and implemented after WTO membership is approved.
iv) Social Insurance
60.    Rationale and Objectives. Until recently, Lithuania's social insurance system (that is,
old-age, disability, widow/er, survivor, and non-contributory 'social' and state pensions, as
well as short-term insurance benefits like unemployment, maternity, and sickness allowances)



18
was financially balanced, but has lately begun to experience cash flow deficits (see Box 3).
More importantly, the system is not sustainable in the medium- and long-term. Modeling done
by the Ministry of Social Security and Labor (MSSL) projects that, by the year 2000, the
system will start running chronic deficits, in the order of half a billion litae per year, even when
assuming higher levels of contribution compliance. Put differently, if the system were to
achieve balance under the current benefit levels, the contribution rates would have to rise from
the current 31 percent to over 45 percent.
61.    The reasons behind these projected imbalances are known: compared to what can be
sustained, either the real value of pensions is too high, or the number of pensioners is growing
too fast because too many people qualify for pensions too early. These problems are
compounded by weak revenue collection, and an expanding informal economy.
62.   In addition, Lithuania's pension law  unnecessarily  creates incentives for early
retirement and encourages older workers either to prematurely drop out of the labor force, or to
hide their "post-retirement" earnings in the informal sector. These features exacerbate the law's
negative effects on economic growth, especially in the formal sector upon which both
contributions and taxes rest. There also exist biases in the law by gender and for special groups.
Finally, Lithuania does not yet have a framework for private pensions through which
Lithuanians could enhance and broaden their old age security; indeed, the social insurance
system, with its high contribution rate, crowds out the opportunity for younger workers to start
building up private pension assets.
63.    Accordingly, the proposed economic reform program will have three main objectives
regarding the social insurance system: (i) achieving and maintaining financial balance, in the
short term by containing costs within existing contribution rates and, in the medium- and long-
term, by redefining the system's promised benefits so that they are sustainable, fair, encourage
work and open space for private pensions; (ii) creating a framework for well funded and
effectively regulated private pensions; and (iii) improving SoDra's administration, including
developing an efficient and cost-effective system to collect social insurance contributions and
other Government revenues
64.    Reforming the Rules of the Social Security System.  Several measures will be
implemented by the authorities in order to contain immediately the system's burden on the fiscal
budget, to assure its long-term financial viability and to open space for private pensions. First,
no further legislation will be enacted or Government acts implemented that increase costs until a
comprehensive amendment is passed by Seimas that deals with the fundamental inadequacies of
the system. Second, the Government will not formally or informally (e.g., by late payments to
SoDra) shift the cost of non-contributory pensions from the State's budget to the budget of
SoDra or to an increased Social Insurance Fund (SIF) contribution rate. In addition, the
Government has started to take steps to assure the timely payment of SoDra contributions by
state enterprises.
65.    Third, by no later than February 1997, the Government will submit amendments to the
pension law, acceptable to the World Bank, that: (i) increase the effective retirement age by at
least 6 months per year for both men and women; (ii) modify eligibility conditions and the
benefit structure to provide incentives to contribute throughout the working life; (iii) remove the
'supplementary' part of pensions (the upper 'earnings-related' pension tier) from automatic



19
Box 3. Lithuana - SoDra's Accouis
Spending on pensions has grown firm 5-5.5 percent of GDP in 1992-93 to about 7 percent in 1996-97, a trend that is typical in
transition economies. Other spending in the social insurance sector, notably in the Health and Employment Funds, has also increased, at even
geater rates. The health care spending increases may be tempered by recently enacted legislation. This legislation shifts from SoDra the
heath care spending that previously had gone through its accounts to the health ministry, along with three percentage points of the
contribution rate.
Despite the increase in pension and related spending, Lithuania has managed to keep its social insurance accounts in balance, wit
a transfer from the budget only in 1994. This balance, however, has been at the cost of an increased contribution rate that has risen fm
19.0-20.5 percent in 1992-93 to 23.5 percent in 1995 and 1996 for pensions alone. Much of this increase in GDP percentage and contribution
rate has been driven by an implosion in the denominator. As in other transition economies, this implosion has two components: both a real
contraction in the economy and, increasingly, a shift from the formal to the informal econony in the wake of privatization.
The collection problem has been growing since 1993. If current trends continue, SoDra predicts that it will have negative cash
flows by the fourth quarter of 1996, with a corresponding drawdown of its reserves. The projections in the table below, however. assume that
the policies in the SAL will be effective on both the expenditure and income side of the ledger: faster increases in retirement ages, more
discretion in the rate of benefit adjustment to hold down spending in accord with available income, prompt payment by the state sector of its
contributions, and fister and more unified work to build a comprehensive revenue collection systemn. (For consistency purposes, the table
retains health-related expenditures even though, as of 1996, tey are under the Ministry of Health's budget.)
1992     1993    1994      1995     1996     1997    1998      1999    2000
(million litae)
TOTAL INCOME                         264.6    774.2   1480.2   1973.3  2969.3  3738.0   4531.2  5228.8   5973.4
Mandatory Social Insurance Payments  260.5    747.1   1334.6   1930.4  2929.0   3682.1   4463.4   5150.5   5884.0
Voluntary SocialInsurance Payments     0.0      0.1      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.4      0.5      0.6      0.7
Transfers from State Budget            0.0      0.0     11.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Revenues from SoDra Activities         4.1     27.0    134.3    42.5    40.0       55.5     67.3    77.6      88.7
TOTAL SPENDING                       249.8    761.2   1454.8  1972.3   2926.0   3704.3   45127   5181.6   5919.4
Pensions                             187.0    541.9   1072.3   1492.1   2047.4   2608,9   3162.5   3649.4  4169.0
AllowancesforSickPayandOther          41.7    100.0    158.9    150.0   293.1    370.1    448.6    517.6    591.4
Employment Fund                        4.6     38.3     31.7     53.4    192.3   222.0   246.7   258.8   295.7
Health Expenditures                    6.2     50.2    121.7    185.1    251.8    333.1    448.6    517.6    591.4
Social Insurance Fund Expenses         9.5     30.8     67.8    88.6    141.4    170.2    206.3   238.1    272.0
Other                                  0.8               2.4      3.1
BALANCE                               14.8     13.0     25.4      1.0    43.3    33.7       18.5    41.2    53.9
(as percent of GDP)
TOTAL INCOME                           7.8      7.0      8.8      8.9     10.1     10.1     10.1     10.1    10.2
Mandatory Social Insurance Payments    7.7      6.7      7.9      8.7    10.0      10.0     10.0    10.0    10.0
Voluntary Social Insurance Payments    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Transfers from State Budget            0.0      0.0      0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.o
RevenuesfromSoDraActivities            0.1      0.2      0.8      0.2      0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2
TOTAL SPENDING                         7.4      6.9      8.6      8.9     10.0    10.0      10.1     10.1    10.1
Pensions                               5.5      4.9      6.3      6.7      7.0      7.1      7.1      7.1      7.1
Allowances for Sick Pay and Other      12       0.9      0.9      0.7      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      l.0
Employment Fund                        0.1      0.3      0.2      0.2      0.7      0.6      0.6      0.5   . 0.5
Health Expenditures                    0.2      0.5      0.7      0.8      0.9      0.9      1.0      1.0      1.0
Social Insurance Fund Expenses         0.3      0.3      0.4      0.4      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
Other                                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
BALANCE                                0.4      0.1      0.2      0.0      0,1      0.1      0.0      0.1      V.1
MEMORANDUM                                                          (million liae)
GDP                                 3386.7  11107.9  16896.3  22237.0  29354.9  36951.6  44721.9  51522.2  587X.7



20
wage indexing; (iv) de-link the basic part of pensions (the lower "years of service" flat benefit
tier) from the Minimum Standard Living, with the Government (as now) determining the level
of the basic pension periodically; and (v) require State budget transfers for all non-contributory
periods.
66.   In order to increase the public's understanding of the actual burden of public social
insurance, the authorities will, by March 1997, submit legislation to Seimas making the
employee responsible for an increasing proportion of the SIF contribution.
67.    Creating Funded Private Pensions. To provide a framework that fosters the creation
and efficient functioning of funded private pensions, the Government has prepared for
discussion at the Seimas, a draft law that: (i) allows access to privately funded pensions to all
citizens who wish to participate (i.e., pension participation is not dependent on employment
with particular employers); (ii) provides for benefits on a defined-contribution basis; and
(iii) provides for adequate regulatory oversight.
68.   Toward a Better Administration of Social Insurance. In 1991, Lithuania transferred
the financing of many social programs from the State budget to the extra-budgetary SIF. At the
same time, SoDra was created as an independent institution to administer payments made
through the SIF, although it also administers payments for some of the non-contributory
pensions that are financed by the State budget.
69.   Several policy issues regarding SoDra's operational efficiency will be addressed by the
Government's economic reform package to be supported by the SAL. First, an interministerial
committee, including participation from MSSL, Ministry of Finance, SoDra, State Tax
Inspection (STI) and other interested parties, will oversee the creation of a coordinated and
harmonized collection system for SoDra and STI taxes. The implementation of a plan for the
phased elimination of all duplication in functions among SoDra, STI, and other related agencies
will start by March 1997.
70.    Second, the Government has enacted an explicit policy with respect to SoDra's
accepting payments in kind (particularly real estate), and governing the disposition of assets
already acquired, by September 1996.
71.    Finally, the Ministry of Finance (as owner of SoDra) has started to implement major
improvements in SoDra's accounting standards and accountability mechanisms.
C.    The Prograxn's Macroecononiic Envelope
72.   This section briefly describes Lithuanian's macroeconomic outlook assuming that the
Government will be able to implement on time its proposed reform package; that financing
under a SAL operation is forthcoming; and that the country stays on track vis-a-vs the IMF
EFF program, especially in terms of short- and long-term external debt ceilings.
73.   The data presented for 1995 is still considered preliminary, and subject to further
refinement and revisions as final figures for 1995 become available (as well as more results of
the on-going World Bank IDF project for National Accounts upgrading materialize). It is worth
mentioning that the projections below are based on official national accounts. This introduces



21
numerical differences Ws-s-vis the IMF estimates, notably in terms of GDP, for which the
official figures are 25 percent lower than the IMF's estimate.'
(i)    Macro Prospects
74.    The Need for Fiscal Discipline. The resolution of the sectoral issues listed above, in
particular the implementation of the banking restructuring plan and the settlement of arrears in
the energy sector, will have fiscal and, hence, macroeconomic implications. Central among
them will be the need for additional fiscal efforts. While some donor financing is likely to be
available, the thrust of the financing needed to undertake this reform program, especially in the
medium-term, will have to come from domestic savings through the fiscal budget.
75.    Immediate Fiscal Impact for 1996 and 1997. It is estimated that the direct fiscal cost
of the implementation of the SAL-related policies will be in the order of Lt 410 million for
1996 and Lt 350 million for 1997, or 1.4 percentage points of GDP in 1996 and 1.0 percentage
point of GDP in 1997. The Government's "1996 Revised Budget", recently approved by
Seimas, incorporates additional fiscal measures for FY96 worth Lt 225 million, of which
approximately Lt 100 million is to come from increased excises on alcohol, tobacco and
gasoline. The remaining Lt 185 million financing need created by SAL-related expenditures will
be in effect financed with the targeted 1996 SAL first tranche release (Lt 160 million) and
additional TB issues (Lt 25 million). For 1997, the higher excises are expected to gross Lt 236
million and leave a financing requirement of Lt 114 million (again, to be effectively financed by
the SAL's second tranche; the remaining part of the SAL's second tranche--Lt 46 million--will
be allocated for necessary 'under-the-line' debt repayments). (See Box 4.)
76.    Medium-Term  Fiscal Impact. The projected reforms, especially in energy and
banking, will pose continuing strain on the budget. The energy reforms will burden the fiscal
accounts until the end of the decade, especially in terms of repayment of accumulated
production subsidy arrears to LPC. Similarly, the budget will continue to pay interest on the
banking restructuring related securities. Capital expenditures have been falling dramatically
during the last years, mostly to control the fiscal deficit. However, the Government should over
the medium-term make an effort to shift resources from current expenditures toward capital
expenditures to take care of needed new investments and rehabilitation of the country's
infrastructure. This will increase its savings from a low of 0.4 percent of GDP to 3.2 percent
by the year 2000. The fiscal deficit would decline from 4.2 percent of GDP to 2.5 percent of
GDP in the same period. Improved tax collection and reform of the pension system, together
with better economic conditions, are critical in achieving these targets.
77.   Inflation, Growth, and Investment. The projected reforms in agriculture and energy
will change those sectors' relative prices, and will keep inflation at higher than anticipated
levels during 1996 (about 30 percent, rather than the previously-envisaged 22-25 percent). (See
Annex 1: Table 1.) After the banking restructuring is successfully completed and interest rates
' Preliminary results of the World Bank's IDF project for the improvement of Lithuania's National Accounts show a
smaller decrease in GDP in constant prices, and a smaller increase in the GDP deflator for the 1992-1994 period, than
the official statistics.



22
Box. Lithiuiana- Estimate Sta  Budg                   1994i        1993         1996         1996             1996         1997
(n  W on liae)                                                           Ogina Budget Reved Budgt   Revimed Bu4get +    projed
SaOteed 541   Wodd Bank
Toal revenues                                      2717.1       3948.5       4984.0       5024.9            5024.9      6664.6
Total current revenues                             2650.5       3911.0      4843.0        4883.9           4883.9      6612.6
Tax revenue                                       2532.5       3823.0       4768.0       4767.7           4767.7       6492.6
Taxesonincomeandprofits                           902.5:        708.0      1016.0                        1015.8      1332.2
VAT &excises                                    1117.0      2589.0       3457.0       3456.6            3456.6      4810.7
Tumovertaxes-Excises                           281.0        614.0        946.0        945.5            945.5       1572.7
of which from additional excise?                                                    100.0            100.0       236.0
VAT                                            g36.0       1975.0       2511.0       2511.1           2511.1      3238.0
Taxes-International Trade                        283.0        187.0        150.0        150.0            150.0        164.6
Othertaxes                                       230.0        339.0        145.0        145.2             145.2       185.0
Non-Taxrevenue                                     118.0          88.0        75.0        116.2             116.2       120.0
Capital revenue/Privatizationproceeds                66.6         37.5        141.0        141.0             141.0        52.0
Expenditure and net lending                         3599.7       4900.5       5826.0       5912.8           6200.6      7643.3
Total Expenditures                                  2986.7      .4444.0       5499.0       5585.8           5744.6      7373.3
Current Expenditures                              2682.7        3912.0      4729.0        4972.1           5131.0      6389:8
Wages & Salariesb                                 719.0       1188.0       1681.0       1681.0           1681.0      2115.4
Goodsandservices                                  975.0       1476.0       1745.0       1745.0            1866.0     2255.7
of which energy billing arrears repayments0                                                               121.0          0.0
Transfers                                         794.2        891.8        590.0        646.8            646.8        801.6
Total Subsidies                                   171.4        256.2        445.8        565.1            576.7        707.7
Agricultural subsidiesd                         150.7       233.6        281.4        281.4             281.4       337.7
Energy subsidies                                                          164.4        283.7            295.3       370.1
Household heating subsidies                                             94.0        179.3             179.3       254.1
Dlebt repaym its to LPC                                                 70.4        104.4             116.0       116.0
Other subsidies                                  20.7         22.6          0.0          0.0               0.0         0.0
Interest Payments                                  23.1        100.0        158.0        225.0             251.3       496.9
of which on banking restrueturing related securitiesf                                                     26.3       161.1
of whichon SAL                                                                                                        27.9
Budgeted expenditures related to banking crisis                               109.2        109.2            109.2         12.5
Deposit insurance ftind                                                      10.0         10.0             10.0        12.5
Deposit compensation                                                        20.0          20.0             20.0         0.0
Resources for recapitalization of the sharecapital
of the state banks                                                           15.0         15.0             15.0          0.0
Investments for the reorganization of "Aurabankas"                           64.2         64.2             64.2          0.0
Capital Expenditures                                304.0        532.0        770.0        613.7            613.7        983.4
Financial balance                                   -269.6       -495.5       -515.0       -560.8            -719.7      -708.7
(excluding Puivatizszion proceeds)                   -336.2       -533.0       -656.0       -7011.           -566.1        760.7
Onlendingoperations                                  613.0        456.5        327.0        327.0             456.0       270.0
Lending                                             654.0        596.4        385.0        385.0            514.0       320.0
of which.liquidity injection'                                                                              129.0         60.0
Repayments                                           41.00       139.9         58.0         58.0              58.0        50.0
IDeficit(-ysurplus(+)                               -882.6.      -952.0       -842.0       -887.8          -1175.7       -978.7
(excduding Privatiabon proceeds)                     -949.2       -989.5      -@3.0        -102.S           -1316.7      -1030.7
Financing:                                           g82;6        955.3        842.0        887.8           1175.7        978.7
Foreign borrowingh                                  294.0        776.0        430.0        632.0            792.0        836.6
of which World Bank-SALs                            0.0          0.0                                       160.0       280.0
Domestic:                                            588.6        176.0        412.0        255.8             383.7       142.2
Sank financing                                                                .18.0         18.0             18.0         2.0
Treasury bills                                                               394.0        237.8             365.7       140.2
Equity (bank recapitalization)                                                                             -840.0         0.0
Long-term bonds                                                                                             840.0         0.0
Unidentified financing/possible SAL enlargement                                                                 0.0         0.0
Sor: Minstry of Fueane; and Fund and Wold Bdk sbffesties.tea.
E cise inces on alcohol, tobacco sad guohlinebem   uly 1,1996.
b. The wage bil is assumed to stay oonstmtttint tonns from 1996 onwards,
c. Outlay to bong rars of'bdge-ry orgunntin and unuicipalbes with LPC and Lthuanian Gas down to 31 days of billing.
d. Amsaum  4percent ceal-tenms reduction pet yea u of 1996.  :
a. AsnuMes a 20 pelcent per yeat peymcnt of debts ofthte govrnt to LPC in regaTds to unpaid production subsidies,
which re LI 276 nillion frorn 1994, Lt 169 million from 1995 and Lt 142 notn firu 1996 (WotT Bask estimate)
£ Assumes monthly intrest pyrnents, with an estimated intereatrate of 13 and 19.5 percent in 1996 and 1997 respectnely.
g Totliliquidity needed for the ban tis esimaftedat Lt 20 emdiin, ofwhich Lt 20 riliont£som deposit ompeatio. and LI 189 milion
diectly:frrnState budget Lt l29lEonintt eimnatedto beneeded tis fiKsalyear (1996) imd Lt6oinDo next fcalyear (1997).
h. Asmes rOU-ova of fotigo obgations towwrds Norrx SIcfrities and ).P9. Moran.
i Assumes disbursements of US$ 40 oiln in 1996 and USS 40 min in 1997 fortheTirst SAL and US$ 30 min forse prosse second adjusntent opemton in 1997.



23
start to decline, inflation is expected to drop closer to Western European levels (about 9 percent
toward the end of the decade). These levels can only be sustained if fiscal discipline is
maintained. For projection purposes, it is assumed that the country maintains its fixed exchange
rate as part of the currency board arrangement at the current level, 4.0 Lt/US$, through the end
of 2000, and keeps a broad measure of its real exchange rate constant thereafter.
78.    Real GDP growth resumed in 1994 (at a 1 percent rate) and continued to improve in
1995 (2.7 percent). In the short run, however, adjustment in the banking sector will dampen
growth momentum, but less than in the absence of a bank restructuring program: growth in
1996 is projected at 1.6 percent. Once stability is recovered in the financial market; deficits in
the energy sector are corrected; competitiveness in the agricultural sector is improved; and the
budgetary provisions to pay for the various structural adjustments are made, the initial stage for
a healthy recovery will be set. Growth is expected to rebound in 1997 (up to 4 percent), led by
continuing strong performance in the trade sector and by productivity improvements in the
industry and construction sectors, and to stabilize at about 5 percent p.a. in the outer years.
79.    Total fixed investment will change very little over the 1995-1996 period (it will hover
at about 18 percent of GDP), for the cost of borrowing will remain high and the availability of
funds limited while the adjustments in the banking sector take place. Higher investment levels,
driven by enhanced confidence, will likely be achieved in the early part of 1997 (up to about
19.2 percent of GDP). Investment levels will continue to increase throughout the end of the
decade and will stabilize at about 22.5 percent, due to better access to domestic as well as
foreign finance and the need to replace old technology.
80.   External Sector. As explained before, under the currency board agreement, Lithuania
has a pegged exchange rate with respect to the US dollar. As domestic inflation will remain
higher than in Lithuania's trading partners, appreciation of the real exchange rate with the West
and, to a lesser extent, with FSU countries is expected to continue. Real exchange rate
appreciation will temper export growth possibilities in the medium term but will put pressure on
domestic producers to control cost and improve efficiency. The high export growth rates of
recent year, mostly from strong performance of re-exports, will be replaced by a more moderate
5-6 percent annual growth rate. (See Annex 1: Tables I and 2.)
81.   Sector-specific reforms, coupled with energy tariff increases, should lead to a more
efficient use of energy and, hence, less energy imports. Imports of consumer and capital goods
as well as goods for re-exports will likely increase apace, due to further trade liberalization,
real exchange rate appreciation, and gradual output recovery. Growth in the volume of imports
will remain at about 4.5 percent per year over the projection period.
(ii)   External Debt and Financing Requirements
82.   The characteristics of Lithuania's foreign debt stock are similar to other FSU and
Eastern European countries: relatively 'young' and low indebtedness, with high exposure to
official creditors. The total medium- and long-term debt stock at the end of 1995 amounted to
US$ 827 million, corresponding to about 30 sovereign loans. The Lithuanian Government
successfully sold an international bonds issue through Nomura Securities on the Eurobond
market in 1995 (worth US$ 60 million), obtained a syndicated loan through J.P. Morgan
(US$ 30 million), and is planning to obtain another syndicated loan for US$ 100 million. The
expected decrease in nominal domestic interest rates starting in 1997 will dampen foreign



24
demand for local-currency-denominated TBs and, hence, short term portfolio investment
inflows. It is expected that recent events in the domestic banking sector will call for continuing
borrowing from official creditors, at least, for the next two years. (See Annex 1: Table 3.)
83.    During 1996-1998, Lithuania will need substantial external financial resources: total
financing requirements for this three-year period are projected at about US$ 1.5 billion. These
resources are necessary to finance US$ 0.7 billion in non-interest current account deficits,
US$ 0.3 billion in debt servicing and US$ 0.5 billion in increases in net international reserves.
(Debts service includes interest payments to the IMF and excludes repurchases of the IMF,
which are included in net international reserves). Part of the financing requirement is explained
by the currency board agreement which, while facilitating the stabilization process, translates
fiscal financing needs into foreign exchange and, eventually, external borrowing needs. (See
Annex 4.)



25
PART III. THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS)
A.    The CAS Objectives and the SAL
84.   The main objective of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Lithuania (CAS;
report No. 13677-LT, discussed by the Bank's Board of Directors in December 1994) is to
raise the living standards of the Lithuanian people by supporting policies and investments that
will put the economy on a fast and sustainable growth path, based on a dynamic private sector
operating in a competitive market economy. Macroeconomic sustainability and a sound and
efficient financial system are thus core elements of the CAS, which also emphasizes the need
for structural improvements in the social safety net and in infrastructural services, especially
energy. The current CAS calls for a lending program with two to three relatively small
operations per year, expanding the program as the sectors' absorptive capacity develops and
their needs grow. Adjustment lending was not included in the lending program. Economic and
sector work and aid coordination are integral parts of the CAS and have been designed to
complement lending activities.
85.    While the objectives of the CAS remain fully relevant, the tools to achieve them need to
be adapted to the evolving economic scene in the country. A set of second-generation transition
issues has emerged, where poor management and lax supervision of the financial markets have
allowed imbalances in the non-reformed part of the energy, agriculture and social insurance
sectors to jeopardize Lithuania's macroeconomic stability and, hence, its prospects for growth
and poverty-reduction. This calls for a greater reliance on adjustment lending than previously
anticipated. There are three main reasons for the Bank to include structural adjustment lending
in the CAS for Lithuania. First, a SAL is an appropriate means to design a comprehensive
package of actions that can address simultaneously the recent financial sector crisis and its
underlying sectoral imbalances. Second, a SAL would focus valuable additional policy attention
on, and support for, the development objectives already pursued by the ongoing (and envisaged)
investment operations, while exploiting useful cross-sectoral synergies. Finally, the SAL would
provide funding that is essential to implement necessary reforms, especially in the banking and
energy sectors.
86.   The proposed SAL may be followed by a second adjustment operation, in order to
deepen the reforms initiated at this stage. It is realistic to assume that many of the factors
behind the present problems will require further cross-sectoral policy efforts in the medium-
term, and that overall financial needs, while on a converging path, will remain sizable.
B.    Bank Group's Assistance to Date
87.   Shortly after independence, Lithuania embarked on a comprehensive economic
transition program. The Bank assisted that effort through a combination of financial support,
economic and sector work, and donor coordination.
88.   A US$ 60 million Rehabilitation Loan was approved in late 1992 to support the initial
transition-related reforms. This loan provided funding for critical imports and was closed in late
1995. Another seven projects followed between May 1994 and July 1996, putting the total of
IBRD funding made available at over US$ 160 million: (i) a Power Rehabilitation Project,



26
aimed at improving energy efficiency, safety and reliability of the electricity and heating
systems, and at supporting the restructuring of the state-controlled Lithuanian Power Company;
(ii) an Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Project, designed to promote private business
activity and strengthen commercial practices in the banking sector; (iii) the Klaipeda
Environment Project, focused on the restoration of coastal water quality through improvements
in wastewater treatment facilities in the Klaipeda area; (iv) a similar environmental project in
the Siauliai region; (v) the Private Agriculture Development Project, which seeks to support the
transformation of land, agriculture production and agro-processing ownership through targeted
credit lines; (vi) the Geothermal Project, designed to generate a demonstration effect that will
foster the use of more efficient, domestically-available fuels; and (vii) the Energy
Efficiency/Housing Project, meant to promote heat conservation and housing improvements
through targeted credit interventions.
89.   The Bank's project portfolio in Lithuania is still 'young' (four out of the seven on-going
projects were approved over the last 14 months), and conclusions regarding performance should
be considered preliminary. Although overall portfolio performance has been judged satisfactory,
the Bank has had to address various problems related to procurement and disbursement.
Unsatisfactory performances were noted in the Power Rehabilitation Loan (due primarily by the
borrower's failure to meet financial covenants) and in the Klaipeda Environment project (caused
by lack of counterpart funding). The Bank's forthcoming lending program will be delivered
taking full account of the implementation lessons learned so far (see below).
90.    A substantial amount of economic and sector work has also been carried out, with a
dual objective in mind: to provide the technical underpinning for the Bank's policy dialogue
with Government, and to ensure the quality and focus of the lending program. The first Country
Economic Memorandum for Lithuania was completed in 1993; it presented a comprehensive
overview of macroeconomic, structural and sectoral issues and priority areas for action. This
was followed by a set of five policy notes focusing on trade, land reform, enterprise reform,
energy and social sector issues. A Public Expenditure Review was prepared in 1994 which
argued for a shift in public outlays toward investment and growth objectives; it spelled out a
medium-term public investment program, as well as a set of budgeting, planning, and
management priorities. The 1995 Private Sector Development study provided an assessment of
major impediments to, and related policy recommendations for, private sector growth. Several
sectoral reports have also been completed: Enterprise and Financial Sector Study (1993);
Energy Sector Review (1993); Electricity Options Study, in collaboration with the G-7
countries (1994); Agricultural Sector Review (1994); as well as informal studies of the
country's social security system and of its municipal finance mechanisms.
C.    The Lending Program
91.   The Bank's lending program for Lithuania will continue to support the chief objective
of the CAS: to promote the country's market-oriented, private-sector-driven economic
transformation as a means to achieve poverty reduction through fast, sustainable growth. Within
that objective, the level and composition of the Bank Group's assistance will be continuously
adapted to the evolving development challenges faced by the Lithuanian economy. At present,
those challenges call for greater reliance on adjustment lending, coupled with selected,
complementary sectoral investment projects.



27
92.     Box 5 compares the lending program  proposed in the CAS of 1994 with the actual
lending to date and the current proposed lending program. The annual lending volume in the
proposed program is about $75 million per year; this is not much higher than the $70 million
per year proposed for FY95-98 in the CAS, despite the addition of two adjustment operations to
the program. This is because in practice it has taken longer to prepare investment projects than
initially anticipated, as the need to develop both consensus behind new market-oriented
approaches and the institutional capacity to implement these approaches called for longer
preparation periods. Moreover, loan amounts per project have tended to be lower than
anticipated in the CAS, reflecting efforts both to keep the project scale manageable and to
mobilize funding from other donors.
93.     As Box 5 indicates, aside from  the addition of the proposed adjustment loans, the
current program closely matches that in the 1994 CAS. As noted earlier, the Bank's ongoing
operations in finance, energy and agriculture, and its dialogue in preparing the social safety net
project, have positioned it well to work with the Government to develop the proposed SAL. At
present, it appears likely that a second adjustment operation may be needed to support
continued strengthening of the financial system and progress in reducing the imbalances in the
real sectors. Follow-on investment operations, particularly in energy and the banking and
enterprise areas will provide an opportunity to continue the dialogue in these sectors and
especially to support the further development of appropriate institutional structures and
regulatory frameworks.
Box 5. Lithiania - Lending Program
CAS Lending Program                            Actl and Cumnt Proposed Prog
(December 1994                                        (August 1996)
FY93                                                 *FY93 (A) Rehabilitation loan (60)
FY94        Power Rehabilitation (S27)               FY94  (A) Power Rehabildtanto ($26.4)
FY95         Klaipeda Environment ($7)               FY95  (A) EnterprlsFne (EFSAP) ($25)
Otlwrnle ($7)                                 (A) Kipeda Envrment (57)
Highways ($1 5)
FY96   (S) Enterprise/Finance (EFSAP) (S30)          FY96  (A) Enviroment D (Slaullal) (S6.2)
(S) Agricultu ($30)                                (A) Geothernal ($5.9)
(S) Social Security (125)                          (A) Agclture (S30)
FY97   (S) Housing Development ($20)                 FY97  (A) Hoslng/Energy Efficiency (10)
(S) Klaipeda Port ($30)                            (A) Highways (519)
Energy II ($30)                                    Structural Adjusment ($80)
FY98   (S) Hoalth ($20)                              FY98      lUiKpeda Port ($20)
MAnicipal Development ($20)                        Health (520)
Environment n (W45)                                Socdal Safety Net ($20)
Second Adjustment Operation (160)
FY99      Energy/Heating Efficiency (S30)
(S) Bank and Enterprise Restructuring ($30)
(8) Municpal Development (520)
* Program before CAS discussion.
Note' Operations in bold type are opeations in onginal CAS. Numbers in ( ) are loan amounts in US$ nullionL (S) indicatos standby
operation and (A) indicates stual.
94.     As explained before, project preparation has progressed more slowly than expected, as
have project implementation and disbursements. Steps are being taken, together with the



28
Government, to correct the situation. In particular, a system of quarterly reviews will be
instituted to enhance project preparation and implementation; ways are being explored to
enhance the role of the resident mission and of local staff in the various projects; Bank teams
will attempt to design simple projects and avoid including many components; the role of co-
financiers and the administrative obligations associated with securing funding from many
different sources will be considered early on during preparation of new projects; and the Bank
will maintain a fluid dialogue with the authorities on the need for improving their capacity for
project processing and implementation.
D.    Coordination of External Assistance, MIGA and IFC Activities
95.   Overall donor coordination for Lithuania is mainly carried out under the auspices of a
G-24 framework, with regular meetings in Vilnius normally chaired by an EU representative.
The Bank has been active in donor coordination at selected sector levels and, based on the
Public Expenditure Review, hosted a donors' meeting on public investment in May 1994. The
Bank has also mobilized donor-sponsored TA for areas central to structural reform and as key
components of specific investment operations.
96.   The IMF approved a Stand By Arrangement in October 1992 of SDR 56.9 million. This
was followed by a second Stand By Arrangement in October 1993 of SDR 77.6 million. In
1994, the IMF Board approved a three-year agreement under the EFF in the amount of
SDR 134.6 million; the Third Review of the EFF was successfully completed in June 1996. The
Bank has enjoyed excellent collaboration with the IMF in Lithuania (see PART IV below), and
the proposed SAL has been designed to complement the on-going EFF in critical areas.
97.   Lithuania joined IFC  in January 1993. IFC's strategy is based on supporting
investments alongside foreign investors in joint ventures; financing export oriented projects in
selected sectors; and assisting in the expansion of small and medium enterprises through
banking system intermediation. IFC has approved three investments in Lithuania, including two
new investments in FY96 for an export-oriented plywood mill and a regional line of credit to
assist Small and Medium-sized Enterprise (SME) development. There are currently a number of
projects under review in the tourist, wood processing and financial sectors. FIAS undertook an
assessment of the environment for foreign investment in 1992 and recommended actions to
enhance investors' confidence. Lithuania is also a member of MIGA; no guarantee operations
have been made effective yet.



29
PART IV. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A.    Rationale and Objectives
98.    While the proposed SAL was not foreseen in the most recent CAS, it is fully consistent
with, and supportive of, the CAS' objectives. The SAL is a necessary and flexible response to
the rapid emergence of system-wide weaknesses that are far more pervasive than was apparent
at the time of CAS preparation. Because of its on-going operational work in all the relevant
areas (banking, energy, agriculture, social insurance), the Bank (in close cooperation with the
IMF) is well positioned to help the Lithuanian authorities in the design of the kind of cross-
sectoral policy program that could put the economy on a rapid, macroeconomically-sustainable
growth path. That program is set out in the Government's Letter of Development Policy and its
attached Government's Policy Program (see Annexes 5 and 6).
99.    For that purpose, the proposed policy package to be supported by the SAL takes a
simultaneous, two-track approach. On one track, it articulates a banking sector restructuring
strategy for immediate implementation. The idea is to avoid further banking dislocation, restore
the solvency of the banking system and make sure that its subsequent internal operation is
viable and consistent with prudential regulations. On the other track, the policy agenda includes
a comprehensive set of sectoral policies for short-, medium-, and long-term implementation.
This would both permanently relieve pressure on the financial system as a source of financing
for the quasi-public sector, and increase efficiency in key sectors of the economy.
100.  The proposed SAL also has a critical financial role. Although the operation's policy
package will focus strongly on sustainable "flow" solutions (e.g., payment enforcement
mechanisms; prudent banking practices; effective bank supervision), the envisaged sectoral
adjustments will call for the resolution of accumulated "stock" problems (e.g., clearing of
budgetary arrears; state-controlled bank recapitalizations; partial individual deposit protection).
These stock problems will inevitably involve the use of public money and will generate
additional fiscal financing needs. Without supplementary external resources, those needs would
be inconsistent with the preservation of the currency board arrangement (i.e., given the limits
for additional Treasury Bill financing, the authorities would be forced to resort to unbacked
money printing). In effect, by requiring full foreign exchange backing of the local currency, the
board converts budget financing gaps into balance of payments gaps. Accordingly, the balance
of payment gap exists not because of deteriorating current account results (although larger fiscal
dissavings will in part translate into a deterioration of the current account result) but because of
a larger accumulation of reserves, which are necessary to back fiscally-driven domestic money
expansion.
101.  Recognizing the link between the budget and the balance of payments that the currency
board reinforces, the SAL operation will provide foreign-currency financing to the Ministry of
Finance. This would produce resources that, coupled with the Government's own additional
fiscal efforts (see 'Macro Prospects' section above), would pay for the structural-reform-related
expenses. It would be possible, therefore, to proceed with the various sectoral adjustments
while keeping the relative price stability achieved so far.
102.  Finally, the SAL operation has also helped the authorities define, but will not provide
financing for, a comprehensive agenda of TA for reform implementation, and attract and
coordinate donor support and resources. Some of that support has started to be delivered, both



30
through the on-going Bank-financed "Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance" and "Private
Agricultural Development" projects, and through assistance from donors such as SIDA, the
EU, USAID, etc.. The importance of the SAL's 'catalyst' role in TA mobilization is worth
emphasizing. The flow of donor-funded TA to Lithuania has so far been adequate, and the
SAL will provide a vehicle for better coordination and more efficient prioritization.
B.    Benefits and Risks
103.  The SAL will provide financial support needed to cover the short-term costs associated
with the proposed cross-sectoral reform package. The operation will carry three fundamental
benefits. First, it will be instrumental in preserving both the structural transition gains and
stabilization efforts achieved so far. Second, it will put the various relevant sectors on a path of
efficiency enhancement, something that will highly contribute to fast and sustainable growth for
the economy as a whole. And, third, it will help the Government to articulate a comprehensive
agenda for sectoral reform within a consistent macroeconomic framework; that will, in turn,
help attract and coordinate donor financing and technical assistance.
104.  Lithuania's SAL would also entail important risks (see Box 6); three of them are
particularly noteworthy. First, to be successful, a major part of the reform package needs to be
front-loaded: this would provide reassuring signals to the markets, and would increase
confidence in the financial system. With the next general election scheduled for the Fall of
1996, continuous ownership of the policy program and commitment to its implementation
become less certain. Second, relaxation of hard budget constraints through SAL-related
financing might undermine the policy-makers' resolution to reform if policy implementation
does not take place before financing is available. Third, the servicing costs of the special
treasury securities for banking restructuring may become politically unacceptable in the face of
competing demands on the budget, leading to pressure to renege on promised interest payments
on those securities. The operation's design will seek to reduce those risks in two main ways:
(i) the tranching pattern will call for the implementation of a major part of the reform agenda
before Board presentation; and (ii) an intense schedule of supervision missions will be set up.
C.    Tranche Release Conditions and Supervision
105.  Box 7 presents the Matrix of Policy Conditionality that the Government will have to
fulfill in order to have the SAL funds released. SAL financing would be made available in two
tranches: US$ 40 million to be disbursed immediately after loan effectiveness (expected in
October 1996), and US$ 40 million to be disbursed upon satisfaction of second tranche release
conditions (expected about March 1997).
106.  The program  will involve four supervision missions, tentatively scheduled for
October 1996, December 1996, February 1997, and April 1997. Interim follow-up, monitoring,
and reporting will be carried out, on a continuous basis, by the staff of the Bank's Vilnius
Office and of the Bank's Baltics Resident Mission. A set of performance indicators, agreed to
during the SAL's negotiations and attached to the minutes of negotiation, will guide the
supervision and impact assessment of this operation.



31
BoX 6. Lithuania - Prjd RL?kf md MitmIatilon Masure.s
Risks                '                         Mae
*  Delays in policy implementation due to upcoming    -   A critical tore of the proposed policy
General Elections.                                reforms has been front-loaded and precedes
Board presentation.
*  SAL-related fiding leads to a relxation of budget
constraints, and an onsuing dilution in policy
commitment.
*  The Government does not service the Treasury   *  An intense SAL supervision schedule,
Securities issued to finance baking sector        coupled with claos monthly monitoring of
restincturing.                                    the fiscal acounts (jointly with the  I),
wil be put in place.
*  Delays in state-controlled bank recapitalizations lead  *  Iecapilizatiou of itate.eontrolled 10s i8
to a generalized loss of confidence and to another  a condition for Board presentation of the
banking crisis.                                   SAL.
*  A new Government with weak commitment or       *  The various SAL mwisos have briefed
ownership of the policy program is in place after the  relevant multi-party committee, at their
C;eneral Elections.                               request Barly resoluitin of difficut
economic maltors addresed under the SAL
could make the initial task of a new
Government easior.
*  Institutional capacity for implemeatation proves  *  Donor briefings and oordinaton meetings
insufficient, Needed TA is either late or not     have been regularly organzed. Key donor-
forthcoming.                                      sponsored, SAL-related TA is forthcoming
and, in some cas, is already. under
implmentation.
D.     Implementation and Technical Assistance
107.   To facilitate policy implementation, the authorities have decided to keep in place the
SAL counterpart team as created by Prime Ministerial Resolution No. 1583/1995. In addition,
senior members of the permanent civil service cadre in each of the relevant ministries and in the
BoL have recently been included in that team. The counterpart team will continue to be led by
the Prime Minister, and the Minister of Finance will be the "Reform Coordinator", charged
with overseeing implementation on a continuous basis. As part of the overall policy dialogue,
the Bank has assisted the Govermnent in developing a draft implementation plan to see that the
various policies are implemented in a timely fashion.
108.   Although World Bank funding will not be provided for TA purposes, a TA agenda for
SAL implementation has been defined, and regularly updated. The Government has started to
establish, in coordination with the Bank, TA priorities, mobilize the necessary donor funding,
and supervise TA delivery. As noted, some of the needed TA is already in place.



32
.:L4TRIXOFPOL CY CONDJITONALT_Y.
BORDPRESETO                           ~SECOND TACI
Reapitlize State Commecal andSavingsBans to:          A Ioperating banks areminfull compliane with SoL
achieve:mp         with solvyandcapital adeqa         rgulations.
erequiXrementsof the BoL, ensuring ithateither a flor a  f;    Bankruptcy procdings have been initiated for notio
proportional dilution in the value of existing stock takes*   *  e   sehas been r:if 40 perce  or more
:place.dependmig respectivelv::onwhethertbebanikm:   :  u                        ::          Per=:
place depending, respectively, on whether the bank an of the large private depositmassis not ovrtd  to equlty
question is msolvent or solvent.                       as per relevant law) by Decembe 1, 1996. Itht
Initiate bankruptcy proceedings for Vaka  Bank a         conversion tikes place, the Government will iAect. necessary
trevokeits license,                                   c       to make Innovation Bank capitalaequtend the
.   Submit to Seimas amendments to the relevant laws,     b   willnoe  r
acceptable to the World Bank, that: (i) increase the  :compl::nce
penalties on bank management (includin the Board of    *  Prepare and announce to the public a privatization plan,:
D)irectors) for non-compliance with BoL regulaty      acceptable to the World Banck, coverng all state ownslhpi
requirements, including exceeding lending limitsto    inthebankingsystem.
connected parties; (ii) give BoL the authority to remove  : t *  All legal actions have been taken to abolish any state:
bank management and directors; (iii) give BoL authority  guarantees of deposits in state-ontrolled banks.
to transfer a11 bank shareholders' rights to public
management in case of insolviecy.                 *  Legingsthe Ministry of Finance to withhold 
:  :  :  ::    7     :    :   S~~~~~fom its regular transfers to stateeandmunicipal budgeta
Change relevant regulations to lower 'large exposure
ratio' (i.e., gross lending to a single customer:to capital):  oranizaUionss t as  to Lasu  that tose
oranizations' debts to iLPC or LtuananGasdo nobtexceed
to at most 25 perent of capital, and expand the definition  30 days worth of billing is in place. Reuce ccos 
of 'borrower' in relation to large exposure to include  receivablefrom state andm lbud rga nizations
: banksin the defiinition. Expand the definition of  : : to LPC and Lithuanian Gas to less than 30 days worth of
borrower in relation to connected lending toTg it into  billing.
line withElU directives and international accounting
standards (to include any person or:entity who benefits    *  The EmnergymPricingCommission is fullyl  etional in a
fromn the loan, is related to the borrower, or is respongible.  manner acceptable to the World Bank.
fior theloan repayment).             *: :::   :; :Measures acceptable to the World Bank have been taken
*  Legislation will be submitted to Seimas obliging the   toward the privatization of (i) LPC and Mazeikiai; (ii) the
MinistryofFinance to withhold from its:regular transfers  LPG activities of Lithuanian Gas; (iii) Lithuanian Fuel and
to state and  nii    budgetary  anizations the        (iv) the X opation of Klaipeda& Oil TI.
necessary amount to assure, that those organiz:ations' *  m  tSeasnaedettoAice4
Subniitto.Sein   anamedmet to Aridl 47of the
debts to LPC or Lithuanian Gas do not exceed 30. days  Cotitution to allow legal persons to own agricultual land.
worth of billing. Reue acounts:receivable fromstate :
and municipal budgetay organizations to LPC and   *   Compliance with the targets And timetable ofthe  rioura
Lithuanian Gas to less than 30 days worth of billing or a  privatization schedule.
level acceptable to the World Bank.,                  Submit to Seinas amen   ts to tpension lw,
*  Agree and start impleentin a repayment schedule,       acceptable to'tfe World Bank, that: (i increase the tffeclve:
acceptable to the World Bank, for the debts ofte  :   ret    t age:by at least6 months per year:for bothnen
Government to L   :in regards to unpaid production                            I and wonrp  (ii)mod4 the eligibility onditions and.benefit
subsidies for theperiod M1994-1996.                   Structure to provide incentives to contribte thoug t the:
Beginning :inth 1997;:and continuing th~fi~ ~      working life; (iii)uwith respect tot th quarterly adjustm    o
w   Begimins with 1997, and oontinllirkg there& er, theT:f::   hivpiiatogxnaiehXml  :i;
the supplementary parto pensions,givnhm Sca
Government will (i) reduce the aggregate budget for  :n  C          ilthe power to   t the sleme tar
agricultwal subsidies by atleast 4percentperyeari:n real
terms fusing ¢prevus-year CPI inflation, rid (ii) for each  part., provided taot the adjustmen othOldklo    of Q.
.wage orpnpriegrowth, taig into accounit forwaegot
produ:ct for wvhich nominal minimu   arial Support  the ratio of  contibur t; ®dlinktebssio
pries are set, these prics will not be increased inany  :part of pensions fromMSL (te   oll detr  0.
::: year by more than 75 percent of the CPI inflationnrate  the leel of the basic pensionperiicaly ad( reqire
projecteyinthestatebu7etfortheCyeartin.rsteon.        stat  budgettransfersfb r                iods.
*  Progres  der the Govetment's Policy Program to be.   *  ProressutheGoernentsPolicyProgransto be.
: ; 0 satisfaictry to thie World Batk:   :; 7:: :;:;:: ;f: :::;: satisfactory to the World Bank..



33
E.    Financial Arrangements
109.  Loan Amount and Borrower. The proposed SAL of US$ 80 million (in the form of a
single currency, US dollar loan) would be made to the Republic of Lithuania, represented by
the Ministry of Finance. Disbursements under the proposed SAL will be made to an account
('Deposit Account') of the Ministry of Finance established at the Bank of Lithuania for this
purpose. The loan will have the standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for
fixed rate US dollar single currency loans with an expected disbursement period of 0-3 years.
110.  Loan Management. Loan administration will be the responsibility of a loan manager
employed by the Ministry of Finance. The loan manager will be responsible for preparing the
withdrawal applications, maintaining the Deposit Account and arranging for its timely audit (if
requested by the Bank), and monitoring overall loan implementation. The loan manager will
also be responsible for coordinating the preparation of the Borrower's contributions to the
Implementation Completion Report and for writing those sections relating to loan
administration.
111.  Disbursements. Upon notification by the Bank of loan effectiveness and of second
tranche release, the proceeds of the first and second tranche respectively of the loan will be
deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit
in this account the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items
imported from non-member countries, or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative
list), the Bank will require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use
for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank (in which case the Bank will
cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan). In accordance with the Operational
Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral
Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases
and, hence, there will be no procurement requirements.
112.  Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing.  Although routine audits of the Deposit
Account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any time.
113.  Closing Date. The expected closing date of the proposed loan will be August 31, 1997.
F.    Creditworthiness
114.  Lithuania's medium- and long-term  debt is expected to more than double (to
US$ 2.1 billion) by the end of the century, and to reach US$ 3.1 billion by 2005. Indebtedness,
however, will remain manageable: due to the country's initial low-debt position, total debt
outstanding will increase from 31 percent of exports of goods and services to about 49 percent
in the year 2000. The ratio of total debt service to exports will remain in the single digits
during this period, while the ratio of total debt to GDP will stay virtually constant (at around 15
percent), helped by the currency-board-protected stability of the nominal exchange rate. During
the period 2000-2005, indebtedness indicators will hardly change; total debt outstanding will be
around 50 percent of exports of goods and services and 15 percent of GDP. However, it is
expected that the ratio of debt service to exports will increase to 10 percent, showing the
consequences of a greater reliance on non-official sources of foreign financing.



34
115.  World Bank exposure will also remain manageable. IBRD debt service to exports of
goods and services will be just above one percent through the year 2005; similarly, IBRD debt
service to public debt service will peak at about 15.5 percent in 1997, falling to around 10
percent in the outer years. The share of Lithuania's debt in IBRD's portfolio will remain
negligible. (See Annex 1: Table 3.)
G.    Coordination with the IMF
116.  The effective close IMF-World Bank coordination and collaboration achieved so far in
the implementation of the IMF EFF program and in the design of the proposed SAL will
continue, especially in terms of macroeconomic, fiscal and banking policy. Specifically, IMF
staff participated in helping the authorities draft a Preliminary Banking Sector Restructuring
Plan; joined the three SAL preparation missions; participated in the drafting of the fiscal
components of the SAL documentation; and provided extensive comments to the accompanying
Government's Policy Program. Continuing mutual representation in each institution's
supervision/review missions will be maintained. Importantly, the proposed SAL will adopt the
EFF's main macroeconomic policy parameters over the short term (the EFF formally ends in
October 1997), as well as the EFF's foreign trade policy component.
H.    Poverty Implications
117.  The proposed SAL operation will have an important, albeit indirect, effect on poverty:
by avoiding a banking-crisis-driven collapse of the current stabilization plan, the SAL will
prevent an inflationary dilution in the real living-standards of the poor (who typically have little
means to hedge their income and wealth against inflation). Additionally, the SAL-supported
policy package seeks to place the economy on a path of fast and sustainable growth from which
the poor will especially benefit. Several sectoral policies may also impact the poor directly
(notably, energy price corrections and pension reform); that impact will be monitored through
the SAL's policy dialogue; the Social Monitoring component of the Bank's Energy
Efficiency/Housing Project; the proposed Social Safety Net Project; and the forthcoming
Poverty Assessment for Lithuania.
I.    Environmental Impact
118.  In line with current Bank operational directives (ODs 4.02 and 8.60), no environmental
rating was assigned to this adjustment operation (category "U").



35
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
119.  1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Washington D.C.
September 19, 1996
Attachments






Annex 1
Table 1. Lithuania - Key Economic Indicators
Indicative scenario
Estimate                     Projected
Indicator                          1993      1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2005
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1993 prices)
GDP at market prices                 -16.2      1.0     2.7      1.6      4.0     5.5      5.0      5.0     5.0
GNP at marketprices                  -16.2      2.0     1.7      1.4      3.8     5.3      4.8      4.8     5.0
Gross Domestic Income                -34.5      2.9    -2.8      1.7      3.9     4.9      5.4      5.3     5.2
GNP per capita                       -16.3     2.1      1.7      1.4      3.8     5.3      4.8      4.8    4.4
Consumption per capita               -16.0    10.4   -10.4       3.4      2.5      2.8     2.9      2.5     3.2
Debt Service (in USSm)                 3.3    61.0    66.3    84.1   184.8   147.6   174.5   303.6  648.4
Debt Service/XGS                         ..     2.7      2.5      2.8     5.5      4.0      4.4     7.0    10.0
DebtService/GDP                        0.1      1.4      1.2      1.1     2.0      1.3      1.3     2.1     3.1
National accounts
(as % GDP at current market prices)
Gross investment                      22.7    15.4    19.2    18.6    19.2    20.5    21.3    21.5   22.5
Gross domestic investment             24.3    20.6    17.9    17.9    18.9    20.5    21.3    21.5   22.5
Gross domestic savings                14.5     9.4    14.3    14.4    15.6    17.1    18.3    19.3   22.1
Gross national savings                10.5    11.1    16.0    15.6    16.3    17.4    18.3    18.9   21.0
Government investment                   ..      ..      0.9      0.7      1.5      1.8     2.0      2.3     2.7
Government Savings                      ..      1.9     2.0      0.4      2.2     2.5      2.8      3.2    4.1
Private investment                      ..      ..    18.3    18.0    17.7    18.8    19.3    19.3    19.8
Private Savings                                9.2    14.0    15.2    14.1    14.9    15.5    15.7   16.9
Ratio of Public/Private Investment                      4.8      3.8      8.5     9.3    10.4    11.7    13.6
Public financeb
(as % of GDP at current market prices)
Current revenues                              32.1    34.6    34.9    37.0    37.1    37.0    37.0   37.1
Current expenditures                          30.2    32.6    34.5    34.8    34.6    34.2    33.8    33.0
Capital revenues                               0.4      0.2      0.5      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.0
Capital expenditures                           7.5      6.2      5.0      5.4     5.5      5.7      5.7     5.9
Overall Balance (- = deficit)                 -5.2    -4.0    -4.2    -3.0    -2.9    -2.8    -2.5    -1.7
Export volume growth rate                      -7.0     9.2      4.7      5.2     5.0      5.1      5.5     5.1
Export/GDP                            86.1    55.1    47.2    40.3    35.4    31.9    30.2    28.8   29.9
Import volume growth rate                      -4.0     2.3      5.2      4.8     4.8      4.6      4.1     4.2
ImportlGDP                            94.3    61.1    52.1    44.5    39.0    35.3    33.1    31.0   30.3
Current Account (in USS)            -177.0  -179.0  -177.0  -226.2  -265.8  -343.7  -380.5  -382.0  -318.6
Current Account /GDP                  -6.5    -4.2    -3.2    -3.1    -2.9    -3.1    -2.9    -2.6    -1.5
Annual avg exchange rate (LCU/USS)     4.1     4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0    4.7
Average GDP Inflation                291.4    51.4    27.5    30.2    21.0    14.9         9.9      8.8     5.0
a. Fluctuations in (private) consurmption for historical 1994 and 1995 data are due to inconsistencies between official GDP
and investment current-price figures and IMF estimates of export and import growth rtes. Official expenditure figures of
the national accounts are not available in constant prices.
b. Public sector includes the State budget, Municipal budgets, Privatization Fund, the Social Security Fund, the Road Fund and
the Agricultural Fund.



Annex I
Table 2. Lithuania - Balance of Pay1meb (millsc USS at curret price)
Indicadve scenario
Es_its                        Projeed
Indicator                                               1994     I"S       I996    197    198    1999   2000   2005
Total exports of aNFS                                   2278.6    2623.2   2961.0  3273.3  3530.7  3904.4  4255.7  6361.S
Merchandise (FOB)                                  1930.0    2210.0   2503.9  2772.5  3030.7  3298.0  3517.0  5293.5
Nonfactor srvicea                                   348.6      413.2    457.1   500.S   550.0   606.4  668.7  1061.3
Total Imporu of GNFS                                    2530.2    2193.0   3271.7  3604.7  3959.8  4281.0  4517.3  6446.3
Merchandise (FOB)                                  2233.0    2543.9   2168.9  3153.5  3456.2  3736.9  4006.9  5650.4
Nonfactor services                                  292.2      349.1    402.8   451.2   503.6   544.1  510.3   795.9
Resource balance                                        -251.6    -269.1   -310.1  -331.4  -379.2  -376.5  -331.5   -84.5
Net factor incomo                                        -21.1        1.9    -11.9  -31.3   -61.9  -101.7  -141.8  -334.6
Factor receipts                                       16.0       39.4     50.4   64.7    78.6    86.4   92.1   143.6
Factor payments                                       37.1      37.6      62.3    96.1   140.4   138.1  240.9   471.3
Interet (scheduled)                               31.0      28.3      48.3    61.0    80.9   102.0  127.3   231.0
Total interestpaid b                         31.0      28.3      48.3    61.0    80.9   102.0  127.3   231.0
Net adjustmnm  to cheduled ie                0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Other factor paymens                               6.1       9.3      14.0   35.1    59.6    86.1  113.6  247.3
Not private curren transfers                              33.7       15.9     16.5    16.9    17.3    17.8   11.2   20.5
Current receipts, of which                            33.7       15.9     16.5    16.9    17.3    17.1   18.2   20.5
Workers' remituance                               0.4        0.4      0.4     0.5      0.5     0.5    0.5      0.6
Current payments                                       0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Net official current transfrs                             60.0       75.0     10.0   10.0    10.0    S0.0   10.0   S0.0
Current account balance                                 -179.0    -177.0   -226.2  -265.8  -343.7  -380.5  -332.0  -318.6
Official capital grnts                                     0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Private investment (net)                                 185.0      135.0    211.0  245.0   265.0   275.0  2S1.3   350.6
Direct foreign invesmen                              60.0       55.0     96.0   110.0   120.0   130.0  140.0  225.5
Portfolio investments                               125.0       80.0    115.0   135.0   145.0   145.0  141.3   125.1
Net LT borrowing'                                         40.0     253.0    199.4  233.4   294.4   318.6  294.4   163.3
Disbursemntsnb                                       69.5      291.0    209.2  311.3   331.1   372.1  440.7   567.7
Repayment (scheduled)                                30.0       31.0      9.1    76.9    35.7    54.5  145.3   404.4
Total principal repaidb                         30.0       38.0      9.1    76.9    35.7    54.5  145.3   404.4
Net adjustments to scheduled repaymen            0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Net other LT inflows                                  0.5        0.0      0.0    -1.0    -1.0      1.0   -1.0    0.0
Other capital flows                                       80.0    -116.3   -111.0    -7.0      4.0   -41.0  -24.0   -32.1
Net short-tern capital                               22.2        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Net capital flows n.e.i.d                            54.0      -21.0   -111.0    -7.0     4.0   -41.0  -24.0   -32.1
Errors and omiuions                                   3.1      -95.3      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Change in net international rrve                        -126.0     -94.7    -73.2  -205.6  -207.7  -172.1  -169.6  -163.2
(- indicates incre" in as*ee)
Memorandum items
Total gmf res  rves, of which                        7SS.1      119.2    933.2  1141.5  1320.0  1476.1  1616.7  2314.6
Total reservs minue Sold                         592.6     750.2    860.5  1066.0  1242.7  1396.1  1535.5  2297.3
Gold (at year-end London priee)                  61.9       69.0      72.1    75.4    77.3    79.3   81.2   87.3
Total gross resrve. (n months' impot O&S)              3.7        3.4      3.4      3.7     3.9      4.0    4.0    4.1
Exchange rates
Annual average (LCUfUS)                                  4.0        4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0    4.0      4.7
At end year (LCU/USS)                                    4.0        4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0    4.1      4.7
Current Account Balace as %GDP                            -4.2      -3.2      -3.1    -2.9    -3.1    -2.9   -2.6    -1.5
a. Goods and nonfactor servicee.
b. Historical data from Debt Reporting Sysm (DRS); oder data projected by country operations division staff.
c. 'LT' denoter longS-trm'.
d. *n.e.i.- denote 'not elswhe included'.
a. '0 & S3 denote 'goods and awvicee.
f. *LCU- denotes 'local curnc units.
,



Annex 1
Table 3. Lithuania - Key Exposure Indicators
Indicative scenario
Actual         Estimate                   Projected
Indicator                        1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2005
Total debt outstanding and         37.7  291.1   568.4  826.2  1062.6  1296.0  1559.4  1860.0  2123.4  3143.6
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)'
Net disbursements (US$m)n          38.3  258.6   107.0  316.0  236.4  233.4  263.4  300.6  263.4   150.3
Total debt service (TDS) (US$m)a    0.0    3.3   62.0    66.3   84.1   184.8  147.6  174.5  303.6   648.4
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDOIXGSb                            ..     ..   24.8    31.0   35.3    38.8   42.6   46.6   48.8    48.3
TDO/GDP                           2.0    10.7    13.4    14.9    14.5    14.0   13.9    14.4    14.4    14.8
TDSIXGS                             ..     ..    2.7      2.5     2.8     5.5    4.0    4.4       7.0    10.0
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS'                 ..   10.0    5.4    14.8    6.9    15.5    15.4   15.2   10.2    10.7
Preferred creditor DS/public       ..   93.3   26.0    81.7   88.2   86.3   69.1    55.0   58.5    33.0
DS
IBRD DSIXGS                        ..      ..    0.1      0.2    0.1      0.5     0.6    0.7    0.8       1.2
Share of IBRD portfolio            ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-term capital.
b. 'XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. 'DS" denotes debt service.



Annex 2
LITHUANIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
(as of 08/22/96)
US$ million amount
Fiscal                                        (less cancellations)
Loan No.     Year  Borrower       Project                   Loan   Undisbursed
I Loan closed                     Rehabilitation           58.78
37370-LT     1994  Lithuania      Power Rehabilitation     26.40      26.38
38160-LT     1995  Lithuania      Klaipeda Environment      7.00       6.07
38660-LT     1995  Lithuania      Enterp. & Fin. Sect.      17.50     16.65
38661-LT     1995  Lithuania      Enterp. & Fin. Sect.      4.50       4.26
38662-LT     1995  Lithuania      Enterp. & Fin. Sect.       3.00      2.94
39630-LT     1996  Lithuania      Siauliai Environment*     6.20       6.20
39950-LT     1996  Lithuania      Private Agr. Devt.        30.00     30.00
40130-LT      1996  Lithuania     Klaipeda Geothermal*       5.90      5.90
40640-LT      1997  Lithuania     Energy Effic./Housing*    10.00     10.00
Total                   110.50    108.40
of which repaid             ---       ---
Total held by Bank       169.28
* Not yet effective
B. STATUS OF IFC OPERATIONS
(as of 08/22/96)
Fiscal Year   Obligor      Business            Original Gross Commitmentsa
IFC Loan  IFC Equity  Participants  Totals
1996         Litekas Ir.    Textiles     10.24        1.00        0.00      11.24
Calw A.B.
1996         10 Agency    Regional       15.00       0.00         0.00      15.00
Lineb        facility for SMEs
1996         Medega        Plywood        8.00        1.00        0.00      9.00
Less cancellations, terminations,        33.24        2.00        0.00      35.24
repayments, sales
Total commitments now held'        0.00        0.00         0.00      0.00
Total pending commitments now held' 33.24      2.00         0.00     35.24
Total pending commitments          0.00        0.00         0.00      0.00
Total commitments held and pending  33.24      2.00         0.00     35.24
Total undisbursed commitments     28.33        0.00         0.00     28.33
a Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
bCredit line for the Baltics and Poland with no predefined amounts set.
° Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investment.



Annex 3
LITHUANIA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.        Time taken to prepare:                             9 months
2.        Prepared by:                                        Government with the assistance of IBRD  staff
and consultants'
3.        Preparation missions:                               January 12 to 26, 1996
May I to 17, 1996
4.        Pre-Appraisal/ Appraisal mission:                   June 26 to July 5, 1996
5.        Negotiations:                                       September 1996
6.        Planned Board presentation:                         October 1996
7.        Planned date of effectiveness:                      October 1996
8.        Expected program completion:                        March 1997
World Bank missions visited Vilnius from January 12 to 26, May I to 17, and June 26 to July 5, 1996, and benefited from the
comments and suggestions of a Bank-wide Working-level Review Meeting that took place on June 24, 1996. The missions were composed
of Messrs./Mmes. Marcelo Giugale (mission leader), Robin Cohen, Dana Cook, Alexander Fleming, Louise Fox, David Lindeman,
Williamn Meyers and Jos Verbeek. The following staff from the Bank's Resident Mission in the Baltics joined the mission team: Crediminas
Dubauskas, Tord Holnstrom, Inesis Kiskis, Vilija Kostelnickiene, Peter Modeen, and Mantas Nocius. Messrs. Mats Josefsson and Thordur
Olafsson (IMF) contributed to the banking sector restructuring plan. Mr. Lars Jeurling and Ms. Ramune Zabuliene, World Bank Resident
Representative to the Baltic Countries and Manager-Vilnius Office, respectively, participated in the discussions with the Government.
Messrs. Basil Kavalsky and Jim Harrison are, respectively, the Director of the Country Department and the Division Chief of the Country
Operations Division, responsible for Lithuania in the Europe and Central Asia region.



Annex 4
Lithuania - External Financing Requirements
(million US$)
Indicative scenario
Estimate                 Projected
Indicator                              1995  1996   1997   1998  1999   2000   2005
Financing Requirement                 309.7  309.2  548.3 587.1  607.1   697.0  886.2
Non-interest Current Account          148.7  177.9  204.8 262.9  278.5   254.7  87.6
Debt Service a                        66.3  58.1   137.8  116.6  156.5   272.6  635.4
of which IBRD                     4.0   4.5    17.7  22.6   28.2    33.5  76.8
Amortization                         38.0   9.8    76.9  35.7   54.5   145.3  404.4
Interest                             28.3  48.3    61.0  80.9  102.0   127.3  231.0
Reserve Build-Upb                     94.7  73.2   205.6 207.7  172.1   169.6  163.2
Financing Sources                      309.7  309.2  548.3 587.1  607.1   697.0  886.2
Private Sources                       135.0  211.0   245.0 265.0  275.0   281.3  350.6
Direct Foreign Investment            55.0  96.0   110.0  120.0  130.0   140.0  225.5
Portfolio Investment                 80.0  115.0   135.0  145.0  145.0   141.3  125.1
Medium and Long Term Loans           291.0  209.2  311.3 331.1  372.1   440.7  567.7
of which IBRD                    14.0  51.1    90.8  65.1   44.7    50.2  50.0
Other Capital                       -116.3 -111.0    -8.0  -9.0  -40.0   -25.0  -32.1
a. Includes IMF interest payments.
b. Includes IMF credit purchases and repurchases.
c. Mostly changes in assets holdings of commercial banks and private citizens.



Annex 5
PRIME MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Vilnius, 12 September 1996
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
The attached Letter of Development Policy and its
accompanying Government's Policy Programme Matrix outline
the economic reform programme of the Republic of
Lithuania. We request the World Bank to support this
programme with a Structural Adjustment Loan of USA 80
million.
The measures listed in the Letter and Matrix &re
intended to achieve rapid economic growth within a
sustainable macroeconomic framework. If adjustments and
corrective measures are required during the course of the
implementation   of   the   programme   we   will,   where
appropriate, review those measures with the World Bank.
Yours sincerely,
Mindaugas Stankevi6ius
Attachments: Letter of Development Policy
Government's Policy Programme Matrix



Annex 5
Page 1 of 7
Republic of Lithuania
Letter of Development Policy
Introduction
1.    Since the declaration of the country's independence, Lithuania's Government has
embarked on a major economic transition process. A centrally-planned model, where the
state was expected to be the engine of growth, was left behind, and a market-based,
private-sector-led development strategy was adopted. The ultimate goal of this strategy is
to raise the living standard of our people through fast, sustainable growth. Much has been
accomplished. The Government has liberalized all prices, privatized former state property
through vouchers, opened the country's international trade regime, adapted its legal and
institutional framework to the needs of a modern market economy, and enhanced its social
safety net. With support from an IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF), the Government has
succeeded in stabilizing the economy, using two main tools: a currency board based
monetary policy, and a major fiscal adjustment.
2.    In spite of those achievements, the economy is now faced with new and formidable
transition challenges. Growth prospects are currently threatened by major problems in the
financial system. Lithuania's banking industry is experiencing a rapid erosion of its capital
base due, primarily, to imbalances in key sectors of the economy (notably energy,
agriculture, and social insurance) and to inexperienced bank management and supervision.
3.    The Government is determined to take immediate corrective action through further
policy reforms. This letter summarizes the proposed reform package. It focuses on the
various sectoral objectives, as well as on the key policies that have already been
implemented and that are to be implemented. The detailed description of the specific
measures that the Government intends to take over the course of the program, and of their
timing, is presented in the accompanying Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) Policy Action
Matrix which is an integral part of this letter.
Banking
4.    The proposed reform package will include the implementation of a detailed
banking sector restructuring plan, designed with joint support from the World Bank and
the IMF. The plan has two main objectives: restoring solvency to the banking industry,
and establishing and enforcing a new legal and regulatory framework to foster prudent and
efficient banking practices.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 7
5.    On solvency, the Government intends to deal with the capital deficiency of both
private and state-controlled banks and to remove immediately the license of any operating
bank that is not in full regulatory compliance by the end of December 1996. For private
banks, and with the exception of Innovation Bank, it is the Government's policy not to
allow insolvent banks to operate, and not to give financial support from the state to any
private bank. This has provided a framework for dealing with the private banks recently
placed under Government administration: Aura Bank will have its license revoked and be
relicensed as a loan "work-out" unit with limited powers under the new name "Property
Bank"; Vakaru Bank will be placed in bankruptcy, and its license will be revoked, and
Litimpeks Bank has been allowed to restart operations (under specific safeguards) after
verification that it now meets all regulatory requirements. All banks presently undergoing
bankruptcy proceedings have had their licenses revoked.
6.    In the case of Innovation Bank, Seimas has passed a law conditionally allowing the
Government to recapitalize it with state funding (having previously written off completely
the value of existing shareholders' stock, as the bank's net worth was deeply negative): if
40 percent of the large, private deposits are converted into equity by December 1, 1996,
the Government will complete the recapitalization to bring the bank into full regulatory
compliance and the bank will not be reopened until that compliance is achieved. If that
deposit conversion does not take place, the bank will be placed in bankruptcy and its
license will be revoked.
7.    The three state-controlled banks (Savings, State Commercial and Agriculture) will
also be adequately capitalized by the state (after an adequate dilution of the value of
existing stocks as per results of BoL recent inspections of those banks in accordance with
Lithuanian law); new top management will be appointed as necessary (already
accomplished in the case of Agricultural Bank); and a program for their institutional
development will be implemented (with the support of twinning arrangements with foreign
banks) by September 1996. The Government will develop and publicly announce a
program, acceptable to the World Bank, to privatize these banks by December 1997; the
program will incorporate measurable intermediate steps toward privatization.
8.    Key legislation has recently been passed by Seimas making the above feasible.
First, a special law has authorized the Government to issue long-term Treasury Securities
to pay for the planned bank recapitalizations. Second, a legal framework has been set up
for the operation of a specialized property trust, i.e., the proposed "Property Bank"
(utilizing the former Aura Bank's facilities and staff), to which 'bad' loans from banks that
are recapitalized with public money (and only from those banks) will be transferred to
facilitate rapid recovery. As mentioned above, this agency will have a limited banking
license but will not be allowed to accept deposits or perform any banking services other
than related to the collection of assets transferred from restructured banks. As part of the
SAL agreements, the Government will seek World Bank advice in designing the by-laws,
policies and procedures that will govern the agency's activities, with a view to limiting the
coverage and duration of the 'bad' loan transfer program.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 7
9.    Finally, central to the Government's efforts in the banking area is the establishment
of new operating rules for banks. These 'new rules of the game' will seek to minimize the
possibility that the financial system's current problems repeat themselves in the future.
Among others, new laws and regulations will seek to eliminate socially- and politically-
based lending; re-define and tighten the limits for lending to 'connected parties'; make
members of the banks' Boards of Directors personally liable for deficient regulatory
disclosure and violations of large exposure and connected lending rules; lower the large-
exposure ratio and expand the definition of "borrower"; revise capital rules to comply
with Basle standards; introduce International Accounting Standards (IAS) for all
regulatory purposes; and facilitate foreclosure. Furthermore, the Civil Code provisions
guaranteeing in full the deposits of state-controlled banks will be revoked, in order to
create a level playing field for competition in the market for banking services. It is also the
Government's intention to actively seek foreign participation in that market; an
amendment to the banking law was recently passed by Seimas allowing for foreign banks
to open branches or affiliates in Lithuania.
Energy
10.   The energy sector suffers from two sets of problems: chronic financial deficits and
inadequate levels of operational efficiency. The sector's financial deficits began after
independence, with the rapid increase in the cost of primary fuel imports from Russia, on
which Lithuania is unavoidably dependent. These deficits probably represent the single
most serious threat in the short-term to Lithuania's macroeconomic balance. In 1995,
budgeted and unbudgeted transfers to energy sector enterprises reached around
Lt 350 million, that is, over 7 percent of the Government's total budgeted expenditure. In
addition, the poor levels of operating efficiency pose a paramount impediment to the
medium-term recovery of the sector. Eventually, financial viability will have to be based
on cost rationalization, rather than on continuous price increases, so that households are
able to afford basic energy consumption, industry has access to a reasonably-priced energy
input, and the country's energy and other exports remain competitive.
11.   The Government has already taken two key steps toward reducing the short-term
financial deficits of the sector. First, major efforts to reduce consumer arrears have been
implemented with, until the current banking distress unfolded, a good measure of success.
From over Lt 500 million in May 1995, arrears have fallen to around Lt 350 million at
present. Energy enterprises now have recourse to significant sanctions for consumers in
arrears. The Government's objective under the SAL is to deepen that improvement in
payment collection. The Government will seek to reduce all accounts receivable of
Lithuania's Power Company (LPC) to no more than 30 days worth of billing by
September 1996. Accounts receivable of Lithuanian Gas will follow a similar pattern;
while gas-related arrears by budgetary and municipal organizations will not exceed 30
days worth of billing, those by private agents will be reduced to no more than 60 and 45
days by September 1996 and March 1997, respectively. Also in September 1996,
legislation will be submitted to Seimas obliging the Minisry of Finance to withhold from
regular transfers to state and municipal budgetary organizations the necessary amount to



Annex 5
Page 4 of 7
assure that those organizations' debts to LPC or Lithuanian Gas to not exceed 30 days
worth of billing. Similar patterns of payment discipline will be imposed both for enterprise
transactions within the domestic energy sector, and for foreign buyers.
12.   Second, retail energy prices have been increased significantly over the last two
years; for example, heat prices have increased fourfold in the period 1994-1995 and by 25
percent in June of this year, ahead of time vis-a-vis the agreed schedule under the
proposed SAL. The Government will maintain, however, its commitment to support
low-income households that would be at risk from higher heating bills, and a special
budget allocation will be made, if necessary, in respect to additional consumer subsidy
payments to the poor.
13.   The Government is also addressing the medium- and long-term  operational
efficiency of the energy sector, with a view to cutting costs and reducing the need for
continuous price adjustments. The quality of accounting information in the sector has
been improved and institutional reforms have been introduced in order to make the
sector's decision-making process more sensitive to market signals. During 1995, LPC,
Lithuanian Gas, Lithuanian Fuel and Mazeikiai were all corporatised as joint stock
companies, and a new Energy Act was passed establishing the Energy Price Commission
with responsibility for setting not only prices but also efficiency standards for the various
energy utilities. Seimas passed law amendment relaxing restrictions to privatize LPC.
Thus, under the SAL, the Government will focus on three key policies: commercialization,
further institutional reform and, where feasible, privatization. The main energy companies
will start producing IAS unaudited accounts (audited ones in the case of LPC) as early as
March 1997, and management performance indicators and incentives will be established.
The Government will reduce its role in day-to-day energy operations, and new transparent
procurement procedures (following internationally accepted standards) will be put in
place. The Government will also institutionally restructure LPC: following up on the on-
going pilot heating decentralization project, the Government will start implementing a full
decentralization of district heating down to municipalities by March 1997. Finally, it is the
Government's commitment to give the private sector as much room as feasible to own and
operate energy facilities; privatization will occur for LPC and Mazeikiai; the LPG
activities of Lithuanian Gas; Lithuanian Fuel; and the operation of Klaipeda Oil Terminal,
all by the end of the first quarter of 1997.
Agriculture
14.   The Government has been trying in various ways to help the agricultural sector
with direct and indirect measures of support. This has probably made farming relatively
more profitable, and may have offset some of the transition adjustment costs.
Nevertheless these means are insufficient to make agriculture more efficient. Due to
measures implemented by the Government, privatization of agriculture is already nearly
completed. The Government has also succeeded in significantly reducing trade barriers for
agricultural and food products, but much of the sector is still not competitive. These
problems raise two main issues. First, in the face of more urgent competing claims on



Annex 5
Page 5 of 7
public funds, it is needed to reduce agricultural support to make the fiscal accounts (and,
with them, the overall macroeconomics framework) sustainable. Second, agricultural
privatization must be completed and the sector's competitiveness and efficiency raised to
levels at which it could survive, and profit from, integration with the European Union
(EU).
15.   The objectives for the proposed agricultural reform package are, thus, three-fold:
the rationalization of existing agricultural support mechanisms to remove policy-induced
distortions; increasing the role of the private sector in agriculture; and furthering the
opening of the sector to international trade. The package is designed to rapidly reduce the
most serious distortions created by the current intervention programs, and to initiate a
longer term effort to develop a new policy strategy that deals more broadly with current
needs and future development.
16.   In order to rationalize the agricultural support system, and beginning with the
forthcoming announcement of the subsidy program for 1997: (i) the overall agricultural
subsidies budget will be reduced by four percent in real terms every year; (ii) nominal
'minimum marginal purchase prices' will not be increased by more than 75 percent of the
inflation rate projected in the national budget for the year in question; (iii) the growth in
the coverage of subsidy 'quotas' will be limited, according to various agreed formulae, for
all products now covered by price supports; and (iv) the price support program will not be
extended to products not now covered. In the medium-term, the Government will prepare
and implement a strategy to shift agricultural support away from direct subsidy and
minimum prices to more market-driven, infrastructure-based mechanisms (such as
research, farner consultancy support, and marketing), and to focus policy-making on
integrated rural development.
17.   Enhancing the private sector's role in agriculture will be fundamental in the reform
program. Privatization of state-controlled upstream and downstream agricultural
enterprises, as well as of public minority stocks in such enterprises, will proceed apace. An
amendment to Article 47 of the Constitution will be submitted to Seimas in order to allow
legal persons to own agricultural land. If that amendment is adopted, the Government will
also submit a law amendment to do away with compulsory leasing to bendroves of private
lands. If conditions improve and farmer-shareholders participate in the management of
upstream and downstream enterprises, the Government will submit a law amendment
making farmer shares in the enterprise tradable under the same conditions as other shares.
Registration procedures for associations and cooperatives of private farmers will be
streamlined.
18.   Finally, to further open the agricultural sector to international trade, the
Government has eliminated all remaining export bans or replaced them with not more than
60 percent, will reduce average agricultural import tariffs to no more than 20 percent
(from their 27.5 percent level) by no later than March 1997 and will reduce the specific
import tariff on sugar and all export tariffs according to a schedule as agreed with the
RMF. The Government will refrain from introducing any new tariff or non-tariff import
barriers; export restrictions; or threshold or reference prices that are not in conformity



Annex 5
Page 6 of 7
with WTO provisions on customs valuation. This trade liberalization plan is specifically
underwritten by the agreements with the IMF in the context of the EFF.
Social Insurance
19.   Since independence, compared with other transition economies (with similar
income levels and demographics), the Lithuanian Government has been relatively effective
in controlling the costs of the social insurance system. However, imbalances are beginning
to develop in the Social Insurance Fund (SIF); contribution rates are high, providing
substantial and growing disincentives for compliance; and the aging of the population will
further increase costs over the medium term. Unfortunately, these issues are not well
known or understood by the general public in Lithuania, since its population has been
accustomed to the broad social guarantees of the Soviet period.
20.   As part of the economic reform program, it is imperative that the social insurance
system be fair, encourage work, and be financially sustainable in the medium-, and long-
term. The Government plans to achieve those objectives in three ways. First, pension
reform draft law amendments will be submitted to Seimas by February 1997, proposing,
inter alia, a faster and greater increase in retirement ages, a new set of eligibility
conditions, a more affordable procedure for benefit adjustment, and direct budget transfers
for non-contributory pensions. In parallel, and in order to foster a better understanding of
the social insurance system's costs, employees will be made responsible for an increasing
proportion of the contribution to the SIF.
21.   Second, the Government will create a new legal framework for well-funded and
effectively regulated private pensions. This will include both giving access to private
pensions to all individuals, and setting up adequate supervisory mechanisms.
22.   Finally, the Government will continue to improve social insurance administration.
A coordinated, inter-agency program to strengthen tax collection, harmonize systems, and
avoid duplication is currently under development and will be put in place as part of the
reform program. A transparent and explicit policy will be adopted governing the Social
Security Administrative Authority's (SoDra) acceptance and disposition of non-cash
contribution payments. Finally, SoDra's accounting and accountability standards will be
upgraded, with a view to enhancing the supervisory role of the Ministry of Finance.
Macroeconomic Framework and Program Affordability
23.   The resolution of the sectoral issues listed above, in particular the implementation
of the banking sector restructuring plan and the settlement of energy debts involving state-
related institutions, will have major macroeconomic implications. Central among them will
be the need for additional fiscal efforts. Although the proposed SAL will play a crucial
financing role while the various sectoral policies are implemented, the Government is well
aware that a substantial part of the funding needed to undertake this reform program,



Annex 5
Page 7 of 7
especially in the medium-term, will have to come from the national fiscal budget. The
Goverment is therefore preparing a package of additional fiscal measures (e.g., increases
in petrol, tobacco and alcohol excise taxes; major real-term cuts in the public investment
program; a virtual real-term freeze in the civil service's wage bill; the repeal of the 1996
law exempting enterprises with deposits in moratoriumed banks from late tax payment
penalties; etc.) and has submitted to the Seimas an amendment to the 1996 budget law
calling for an across-the-board cut in government expenditures of about Lt 320 million.
24.   The Government intends to take all necessary measures in order to assure that all
fiscal targets, as agreed upon under the IMF EFF, are met, and that the overall
stabilization program stays on track while the SAL-supported package of structural
reforms is put in place.
September 7, 1996



Annex 6
1 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE           by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by   expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.              medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                  supported by a follow-up
l ___________________ _                                                                                    adjustment operationo . 
Banking:
1. Resolve short-term      Laws passed by Seimas    Initiate bankruptcy of     Innovation Bank will be     Privatize any new public
problems in the banking  allowing for: (i) public  Vakaru Bank and revoke its  immediately liquidated if 40   stake in banking acquired as
industry                take-over with private    license.                  percent or more of the large   a result of the restructuring
participation of Innovation                         private deposit mass is not    plan.
Bank; (ii) issuance of   BoL to certify and provide   converted into equity (as per
Treasury Securities for  evidence to the World Bank  relevant law). If that
bank recapitalization;   that Litimpex continues to   conversion takes place, the
(iii) abolition of       meet all regulatory        Government will inject
December 29, 1995 law    requirements. If Litimpex    necessary capital to make
granting special protection  does not meet those    Innovation Bank's capital
to Innovation and        requirements, its license  adequate and it will not be
Litimpex; and (iv) setting   will be immediately   reopened until it is in full
up loan "Work Out        revoked. In addition, the    regulatory compliance.
Unit"(named 'Property    following safeguards will be
Bank").                  in place: (i) no Government  Transfer "bad" loans of
assistance is being provided  Innovation to work-out unit
Bank of Lithuania        (except for up to 7 month   if recapitalized with public
executive decisions taken    maturity extension of less   funds.
to: (i) close down and   than Lt 10 million of state
initiate bankruptcy of   deposits at an interest rate   Prepare plans, acceptable to
Vakaru Bank (in          not less than the          the World Bank, to privatize
accordance with the laws    Government's cost of    any public stake in banking
of Lithuania); (ii) initiate   funds); (ii) daily operational acquired as a result of the
bankruptcy of Innovation   reporting to BoL; (iii) the    restructuring plan. Announce
Bank if 40 percent or more  bank will be notified that it  privatization plans to the
of the large private     is not allowed to pay      public.
deposits (as per relevant    dividends or bonuses until it
law) are not converted into  meets all prudential rules    BoL to certify to the World
equity by December 1,    computed under             Bank that Litimpex continues
1996; and (iii) allow    International Accounting    to meet all regulatory
Litimpex to restart      Standards (1AS); and (iv)    requirements. If ULtimpex
I oeaons without ay       BoL commits to complete   Idoes not mt those,                    _



Annex 6
2 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE           by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by  expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.             medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                 supported by a follow-up
adjustment operation).
kind of Government       an examination of the bank   requirements, its license will
assistance (except for up to  by October 1996.     be immediately revoked.
7 month maturity
extension of less than IA    Agreement with the World   Revoke license of Aura
10 million of state deposits  Bank on the modalities of    Bank, give a limited license
at an interest rate not less  the Treasury Securities  to "Property Bank"
than the Government's    issue that will be placed on   (excluding among others,
cost of funds) and subject  the balance sheet of   deposit-taking rights), and
to certain safeguards.   restructured banks. The   revoke license of all other
modalities to include the  banks currently in
establishment of a pricing    bankruptcy procedures.
formula for the securities.
Establish structure and
operating procedures
(including criteria for the
transfer of 'bad" loans and
the coverage of the transfer
program) for Work Out
Unit in a manner acceptable
to the World Bank.



Annex 6
3 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Govermnent  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE           by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by  expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.             medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                 supported by a follow-up
adjustment operation).
2. Reduce the public       Laws passed by Seimas    Develop and start         Prepare plans, acceptable to
sector's role in banking   allowing for issuance of    implementation of a  the World Bank, to privatize
special treasury securities   detailed restructuring plan,   by December 1997 Savings
for recapitalization of  acceptable to the World   Bank and State Commercial
state-controlled banks.  Bank, for State Commercial  Bank. Announce those plans
and Savings Banks. The    to the public.
BoL comnpleted           plan will include, inter
examination of           alga, the appointment of  Transfer "bad" loans of
Commercial and Savings    new senior management in   State Commercial and
Banks. Completed         each of those banks and the  Savings Banks to Work Out
independent Intemational   establishment of twinning    Unit, and recapitalize those
Accounting Standards     arrangements with         banks.
(IAS) audits of those    appropriate foreign banks.
banks for year 1995.     Announce this restructuring
plan to the public.
Agree with the World Bank
on the modalities of the
Treasury Securities issuance
that will be placed on the
balance sheet of
restructured banks. The
modalities are to include the
establishment of a pricing
formula for the Securities.



Annex 6
4 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE           by the Govemment.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by   expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.             medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                 supported by a follow-up
l____________________I                                                        Iadjustment operation).
3. Assuring compliance     Agreed on "business      All operating insolvent   Revoke banking license for   All banks will continue to
with existing prudential  plans" with five banks that banks will have their  all banks which do not meet   meet all prudential rules.
rules                   were not in regulatory   licenses revoked.          all prudential rules (by
compliance to meet all                             December 31, 1996).
regulatory standards by  Solvent banks that do not
December 1996.           meet prudential rules must   Require independent external
be officially informed that   audits under IAS to be
their banking licenses will   completed for all banks for
be revoked by January 31,  the year ending December
1997, if they do not achieve  1996.
full compliance as of
December 31, 1996.        __
4. Revise laws and         Announced introduction of  Government and BoL      BoL revises and implements   Complete comprehensive
regulations to assure the  IAS for banking       adopts resolutions and     capital rules to comply with  review of Banking Law and
new banking sector is    supervision purposes,   policies, acceptable to the   the Basle Convention.   other laws which impact
prudentially sound and   effective January 1, 1997.  World Bank, to prohibit                           efficiency in banking, and
public confidence is                             socially and politically   Revoke the Civil Code      propose necessary changes.
restored                Amended banking law to   based lending by the       provision relating to deposit
allow for the operation of   Government through the  insurance in state-controlled
foreign banks as branches   banking sector.        banks.
or as affiliates.
Change regulations        IAS will be adopted for all
lowering the "large       supervisory purposes
exposure ratio" (i.e., gross  effective January 1, 1997.
lending to a single
borrower to capital) to at
most 25 percent of capital
and expand the definition of
"Borrower" in relation to
large exposure to include
banks in the definition.



Annex 6
5 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE           by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by  expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.             medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                 supported by a follow-up
______________ _______                                           ______________________  adjustment operation).
BoL and the Government   Amend necessary laws to
make a public policy     accelerate the process of
statement, acceptable to    foreclosure and to establish
the World Bank,          the first priority in
facilitating foreign bank    bankruptcy for a creditor to
participation in the    the extent of the value of
banking sector.          collateral.
BoL to revise capital rules
to assure current year losses
are written off against Core
Capital for all regulatory
purposes.
Submit to Seimas
amendments to the relevant
laws, acceptable to the
World Bank, that:
(1) increase the penalties on
bank management
(including the Board of
Directors) for non-
compliance with BoL
regulatory requirements,
including exceeding leading
limits to connected parties,
(2) give BoL the
authority to remove
managemilent and directors,
and (3) give BoL authority
to transfer all bank
shareholders' rights to
public management in case
_ _ _ _ _ ___    of insolvency.



Annex 6
6 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE           by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by  expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.             medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                 supported by a follow-up
l _______________________                                                                                adjustment operation).
Energy:
1. Restoration of financial
solvency
1.1 Efficient Pricing      Established Energy       Increase effective industrial  The Government will   Maintenance of satisfactory
Pricing Commission       and residential heat prices    approve tariffs, as   financial performance ratios
(EPC).                   by at least 25 percent on  recommended by the EPC    for LPC, Ignalina and
average to eliminate need    according to its price  Lithuanian Gas, including
District heating pricing  for direct subsidy to LPC.   methodology, that will  debt-service ratios of at least
methodology elaborated by                          assure full cost recovery  1.5 and a current ratio
EPC.                     Provide EPC with          pricing for LPC, Ignalina  greater than 1.
appropriate staffing and  and Lithuanian Gas.
Cabinet took decision and   capabilities to fulfill                           Continued implementation of
made public announcement regulatory functions;     Presentation to Seimas of  EPC price setting
of 25 percent increase in    approval of EPC price  draft legislation acceptable to  methodology.
average heat prices.     setting methodology.      the World Bank, establishing
independence of EPC.
Implementation of EPC price
setting methodology.



Annex 6
7 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE           by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by  expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.            medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                supported by a follow-up
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I_______________  adjustment operation).
1.2 Elimination of                                 Legislation will be       Legislation obliging the   Accounts receivable from
payment arrears                                 submitted to Seimas       Ministry of Finance to     state and municipal
obliging the Ministry of  withhold from its regular  budgetary organizations to
Finance to withhold from    transfer to state and   LPC and Lithuanian Gas
its regular transfers to state  municipal budgetary  should be maintained at less
and municipal budgetary  organizations the necessary   than 30 days worth of
organizations the necessary  amount to assure that those   billing.
amount to assure that those  organizations' debts to LPC
organizations' debts to LPC  and Lithuanian Gas do not    Accounts receivable from
and Lithuanian Gas do not   exceed 30 days worth of  non-budgetary organizations
exceed 30 days worth of  billing is in place.       for electricity, heat and gas
billing.                                            (except LPC) should be
Accounts receivable from   kept below 30 days for LPC
Accounts receivable from    state and municipal     and for Lithuanian Gas.
state and municipal      budgetary organizations to
budgetary organizations to   LPC and Lithuanian Gas  Continue implementing
LPC and Lithuanian Gas    should be maintained at less  agreed repayment schedule
should be reduced to less    than 30 days worth of  for the Government's debt to
than 30 days worth of    billing.                   LPC in regards to production
billing or a level acceptable                       subsidies.
to the World Bank.       Accounts receivable from
non-budgetary organizations
Accounts receivable from    for electricity and heat
non-budgetary            should be kept below 30
organizations for electricity  days for LPC and reduced to
and heat for LPC should    below 45 days (except for
not exceed 30 days worth    LPC) for lithuanian Gas.
of billing. Accounts
receivable from non-     Continuous compliance with
budgetary organizations for  agreed repayment schedule
gas for Lithuanian Gas   for the Government's debt to
(except from LPC) should   LPC in regards to production
not exceed 60 days.      subsidies.                I



Annex 6
8 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE           by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by  expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.             medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                 supported by a follow-up
adjustment operation).
Agree and start
implementing a repayment
schedule, acceptable to the
World Bank, for the debts
of the Government to LPC
in regards to unpaid
production subsidies for the
period 1994-1996.
1.3 Settlemnent of external                         Government to begin       Continuous compliance with   Maintenance of payment
accounts                                        implementing plan,         repayment schedule for     discipline for gas sales by
acceptable to the World   debts in respect to supply of  Lithuanian Gas to LPC and
Bank, to settle debt      gas to LPC by Lithuanian   for LPC sales to external
between LPC and           Gas.                       electricity buyers.
Lithuanian Gas.
Start implementation of
measures, acceptable to the
World Bank, to reduce
external electricity debt.
1.4 Elimination of direct                           An additional budget      Direct subsidies to LPC and   Direct subsidies to LPC and
energy sector subsidies                          allocation for 1996 should   Lithuanian Gas should   Lithuanian Gas should
be made in respect to    remain at zero in the       remain at zero in the
additional heat and hot   national budget for 1997.  national budget.
water subsidies for low-
income households
following the increase in
heat prices.
Direct subsidies to LPC
and Lithuanian Gas should
be eliminated from the
national budget for 1997.



Anne 6
9 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE           by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by  expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.             medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                 supported by a follow-up
adjustment o ration).
2. Commercialization of
the energy sector
2.1 Better Accounting      Completed IAS audits of    Measurable steps should be   Production of unaudited  Annual production and
LPC's accounts for 1994   taken to implement IAS in   accounts according to IAS  publishing of audited
and 1995.                Lithuanian Gas, Lithuanian  for Lithuanian Gas,      accounts according to IAS
Fuel, Ignalina NPP and    Lithuanian Fuel, Ignalina  for LPC, Lithuanian Gas,
Mazeikiai.                NPP and Mazeikiai for      Lithuanian Fuel, Ignalina
1996.                     NPP and Mazeikiai.
Production of unaudited
accounts for the first half of  Production of 1996   Regular production of
1996 for LPC, according to  unaudited accounts for LPC,  separate accounts for LPC's
IAS.                      according to IAS.          generation, transmission,
distribution and any
Development of separate   remaining district heating
accounts for identified 'cost  functions.
centres" for LPC
generation, transmission,
distribution and district
heating functions. This
should include the
development of appropriate
internal transfer prices.
2.2 Better Management      Initiated management and   Management Performance   Implement agreed           Continue implementation of
policy                 performance audit for     Audits to be completed for   recommendations of      recommendations of
LPC.                     LPC and initiated for     Management Performance     Management Performance
Lithuanian Gas.           Audits of LPC and          Audits of LPC and
Lithuanian Gas. Establish  Lithuanian Gas, including
performance targets and    performance targets and
related incentive packages    related incentive packages.
for LPC and lithuanian Gas
m._njagernent.



Annex 6
10 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government      Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE              by the Government.       expects to implement before  expects to implement by      expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the   March 1997.                   medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                      supported by a follow-up
l ______________________      ______________________     ______________________        _____________________I_       adjustm ent   operation).
2.3 Better Corporate                                     Prepare an Action Plan,      Initiate implementation of    Complete implementation of
governance                                           satisfactory to the World    Action Plan.                  Action Plan.
Bank, for the establishment
of supervisory structures
and procedures which
reduce the role of
Government in the
operational management of
LPC, Lithuanian Gas,
Ignalina and Mazeikiai.
2.4 Decentralization          Pilot heating               Prepare Action Plan,        Initiate implementation of    Complete decentralization of
decentralization project is   satisfactory to the World  plan for decentralization of    district heating.
under implementation.       Bank, for decentralization    district heating.
of district heating.
Government publicly
announced its commitment
to decentralize district
heating.
2.5 Privatization             Seimas passed law           Prepare plan, satisfactory  Privatization of LPC,         Revoke existing legislation
amendment relaxing          to the World Bank, for      Mazeikiai, LPG activities of  limiting reach of
restrictions to privatize  privatization of LPC and     Lithuanian Gas, Lithuanian    privatization in the energy
LPC.                       Mazeikiai; Lithuanian        Fuel, and of the operation of  sector.
Fuel; LPG activities of     Klaipeda Oil Terminal.
Lithuanian Gas; and the                                   Produce plan for future
operation of Klaipeda Oil                                 structure and ownership of
Terminal.                                                 remaining power sector
enterprises.



Annex 6
11 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE           by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by  expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.             medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                 supported by a follow-up
Iadjustment operation).
2.6 Procuremnent           Draft public procurement   Approve and implement   Continue compliance with   Continue implementation of
procedures             law submitted to         transparent procurement    transparent procurement   transparent procurement
Parliament.             rules (according to        procedures (according to   procedures (according to
internationally accepted  internationally accepted  internationally accepted
standards) for LPC,       standards) for LPC,        standards) for LPC,
Lithuanian Gas, Ignalina  Lithuanian Gas, Ignalina and  Lithuanian Gas, Ignalina and
and Mazeikiai.            Mazeikiai.                 Mazeikiai.



Annex 6
12 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government       Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE               by the Government.       expects to implement before  expects to implement by         expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.                    medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                        supported by a follow-up
l _______________________      _______________________     ________________________      ________________________       adjustm ent   operation).
Agriculture:
1. Reduce Internal Market   Minimum marginal               Beginning with the           The GoL will develop a         Implement strategy for
Distortions                 support price for pigs was   announcement of the 1997    consistent and                 shifting away agricultural
reduced by 400 Lt/ton       program, and continuing       comprehensive medium term   support from direct subsidy
(with an equivalent-        thereafter, the GoL           policy and implementation     and price support.
amount increase in the      will:                         strategy that replaces the
related direct subsidy).    (i) reduce the aggregate      current temporary programs
budget for agricultural      with new policy measures
subsidies by at least 4      that rely (if necessary) only
percent per year in real     on targeted programs and
terms using previous-year    direct subsidies and places
CPI inflation, and monitor   greater emphasis on
subsidy spending semi-       integrated rural
annually (as per agreement   development, research,
under the World Bank         farmer consulting services,
Private Agricultural         market information services,
Development Project);        and the improvement of
(ii) for each product for    marketing infrastructure and
which nominal minimum        institutions.
marginal support prices are
set, these prices will not be
increased in any year by
more than 75 percent of the
CPI inflation rate projected
in the state budget for the
year in question;
(iii) set the subsidy
program's "quotas" for
flax and barley (groats and
malt) not higher than 1996
level; set the "quota" for
sugar beet at no more than
1 million metric tons (mt),  I



Annex 6
13 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken  Policies the Government     Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE            by the Govemment.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by      expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.               medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                   supported by a follow-up
.__________________________  _adjustment operation).
for buckwheat to no more
than 12,000 mt, for rape
seed to no more than
30.000 mt, and for the
aggregate of grains
(excluding buckwheat) and
feed legumes to no more
than 650,000 mt; the
l"quotas" for milk and meat
will not be increased by
more than 5 percent per
year, and up to a maximum
equal to 80 percent of their
1990 production levels; (iv)
refrain from introducing
any new quota (i.e.,
enlarging the coverage of
the subsidy-and-quota
program).
2. Agricultural             Amendments to the Law     Registration procedures for   Submit to Seimas an
Privatization            on Agricultural            associations and           amendment to Article 47 of
and Land Reforn          Enterprises gave           cooperatives of private    the constitution to allow
bendroves the right to    farmers will be reviewed,    legal persons to own
decide that voting will be   and steps will be taken to    agricultural land.
proportional to the shares   shorten registration time.
owned rather than one-
member-one-vote, as well   The GoL will develop and    agricultural companies gain
as the right to reinvest  publicly announce a plan    the right to own land (i.e., if
profits and revalue their    and schedule to complete  Article 47 of the constitution
shares accordingly.       the privatization of       Is amended to extend
remaining state-controlled    agricultural land ownership
upstream and downstream    to legal persons), the
Government will submit to
Seimas an amendment to the



Annex 6
14 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Government  Policies the Govemment
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE            by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by    expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.              medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                  supported by a follow-up
_  adjustment operation).
enterprises in the        law in order to revoke
agricultural sector and for    compulsory leasing of
the sales of the state's  private land to bendroves.
minority stocks in those  Compliance with the
enterprises. The GoL will,   privatization schedule of
in accordance with existing
legislation, miake stocks in   upstream and downstream
lo legislaterprion,smakess fl  agricultural enterprises. The
those enterprises freely  GoL will, in accordance
l  tradable.              with existing legislation,
make stocks in those
enterprises freely tradable.
If the economic situation in
agriculture improves and the
participation of farmer-
shareholders in the
management of the upstream
and downstream enterprises
is formed, the Government
will submit to Seimas a law
amendment making farmer-
shares in these enterprises
tradable according to the
same rules as other shares.
3. Trade and World          Eliminated export ban on    Export restrictions      Import and export tariffs
Market                   red clover seeds.         requiring Ministry of      (both ad-valorem and
Integration                                        Agriculture permission to    specific) will be in
Converted remaining      export wheat and flour will  compliance with agreements
export bans into export   be removed.               between the GoL and the
tariffs of not more than 60                         IMF under the EFF
percent.                  The Government will not    agreement. Thus, average
introduce new tariff or non-  agricultural import tariffs
tariff barriers, export    will be reduced to no more



Annex 6
15 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government   Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE            by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by     expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.               medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                   supported by a follow-up
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __   I__  adjustment operation).
restrictions, or threshold    than 20 percent, and all
prices.                    specific import tariffs
(except sugar) will be
Import and export tariffs  eliminated. A schedule for
(both ad-valorem and       the reduction of the specific
specific) will be in      import tariff on sugar, as
compliance with            agreed with the IMF, will be
agreements between the     under implementation.
GoL and the IMF under the
EFF agreement.             A schedule for the reduction
of export tariffs, as agreed
with the IMF, will be under
implementation.



Annex 6
16 of 18
LITIITANIA
COVERNNIENT'S POLICY PROGRANI NIATRIX
Actions already taken   Policies the Government     Policies that the Goverment  Policies the Govemment
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE             by the Government.      eNpects to implement betore  expects to implement by     expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the   March 1997.                  medium-term (possibly to be
l________________J                                     ISAL.                                                     supported by a follow-up
| adjustment operation).
Social Insurance:
1. Pension Reform.          White paper approved by    No formal or informal        Government submittal by
Reform pension benefits    Cabinet.                  shifting of the cost of non-   February 1997 to Seimas of
so that the system                                   contributory pensions from    pension reform draft law
encourages labor supply,   Adopted policy that no    the State budget to SoDra    amendments, acceptable to
is equitable, and is      legislation or Government   will take place, and       the World Bank, that
financially sustainable in   acts that increase costs,  immediate steps for timely   restrains the growth of
the medium- and long-     regardless of effective    payment of SoDra            benefit levels, raises
term.                     date, will be passed until a  contributions by state   retirement ages, improves
comprehensive reform that  enterprises will be         equity and encourages work.
deals with inadequacies in  implemented.               In particular, the draft law
public pensions is                                     will amend provisions of
approved by Seimas.                                    pension legislation in order
to: (a) increase the effective
Adopted decision to stop                               retirement age by at least 6
payments of the heating-                               months per year for both
costs-related                                          men and women; (b) modify
supplementary pension as                               eligibility conditions and
of June 1, 1996.                                       benefit structure to provide
incentives to contribute
A new Health Insurance                                 throughout the working life;
Law has been adopted by                                (c) with respect to the
Seimas in May 1996,                                    quarterly adjustment of the
according to which 3                                   supplementary part of
percentage points of the                               pensions, the Social
social insurance                                       Insurance Council will have
contribution will be                                  the power to adjust the
transferred from Social                                supplementary part,
Insurance Fund to Health                               provided that the adjustment
Insurance Fund.                                        is not below the lower of
wage or price growth, taking
into account for wage
Igrowth the ratio of



Annex 6
17 of 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNMENT'S POLICY PROGRAM MATRLX
Actions already taken  Policies the Government     Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE            by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by     expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.               medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                   supported by a follow-up
I adjustment operation).
contributors to pensioners;
(d) de-link the basic part of
pensions from the MSL; the
Government shall determine
the level of the basic pension
periodically: (e) require state
budget transfers for all non-
contributory periods.
Enact above-mentioned law
(expected by March 1997).
Submission to Seimas of
legislation, acceptable to the
World Bank, which makes
employees responsible for an
increasing proportion of the
SIF contribution.
2. Create the framework     Designated government     Submission to Seimas of    Legal framework, acceptable
for funded private       official to be responsible   legal framework,         to the World Bank, for
pensions                 for a working group that    acceptable to the World   funded private pensions to
will prepare a Draft      Bank, which: (a) allows for  be in place.
Private Pension Law.      funded private pensions for
all citizens who wish to
participate with comparable
tax treatment: (b) provides
for benefits on a defined
contribution basis; and
(c) provides adequate
regulatory oversight.
__ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ I               " _ __  _ __ _  _ __  ___    I__   _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _



Annex 6
18 ot 18
LITHUANIA
GOVERNN1ENT'S POLICN' PROGRAMNI MATRIX
Actions already taken    Policies the Government  Policies that the Government  Policies the Government
SECTORAL OBJECTIVE           by the Government.    expects to implement before  expects to implement by  expects to implement in the
Board Presentation of the    March 1997.             medium-term (possibly to be
SAL.                                                 supported by a follow-up
I___________________________  I__  adjustment operation).
3. Improvement of social    Signed agreement between   Enactment of explicit  Start implementation of plan
insurance               Department of Statistics,   policy, acceptable to the  for the phased elimination of
administration and      STI and SoDra on steps to   World Bank, regarding   all duplication in functions
contribution collection.   be taken during 1996 to    acceptance and disposition    between STI, SoDra and
strengthen collections by    by SoDra of non-cash  other related agencies.
harmonizing systems and   social insurance
reducing duplication     contributions, and
between agencies.        governing the disposition
of assets already acquired.
Program to assure timely
payment of SoDra         Start implementing
contributions by         improvements in SoDra's
budgetary agencies and   accounting and
state enterprises developed  accountability to achieve
and under implementation.  transparency (to be cleared
by Ministry of Finance).
Submission of plan,
acceptable to the World
Bank, for the phased
elimination of all
duplication in functions
between STI, SoDra and
other related agencies.



Lithuania at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle-
Lithuania     Asia  income        Development diamond
Population mid-1995 (millions)                          3.7      488    1 154                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita 1995 (US$)                             2,050     2.240    1,700                L
GNP 1995 (billions USS)                                 7 6     1.093    1,962                       T
T
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (%)                                          0.0       0.4      1.4      GNP            /                  Gross
Labor force (ok)                                       -0.1       0.6      1.8      per                    -.        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)                -
Urban population (% of total population)                 72        66       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        69        68        67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 14        23       36               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation) a/                 93        ..       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      -         ..h..
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age popu/ation)   92         97      104             -   Lithuania
Male                                                  95        97       105          --  Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                90        97       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1994     1995
Economic ratios*
GDP (billions US$)                              -         -       7.0      7.6
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                    .      34.3      15.3     19.2             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP    ..       ..      55.1     47.3             O
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..    20.7        9.4     14.3
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..       ..       9.7      14 7
Current account babanre/GDP b/ c/               ..       ..      -5.6     -4.5
Interest payments/GDP bl                        ..       ..       0 7      0.5      Savings                      Investment
Total debtVGDP b/                               ..        -      13.4     14.9                      1\
Total debt service/exports                      ..       ..       2.7      2.5
Present value of debtGDP                        ..       ..       5.2
Present value of debtUexports                   ..       ..      16.9       ..
;        ~~~Indebtedness
1975-84  1985-95     1994      1995  1996-04
(average annual growth)                                                                    -   Lithuania
GDP                                    ..    -7.4       1.0       2.7      4.6
GNP per capita                         ..    -8.0       1.4       2.2      4.3                 Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and nfs              ..        ..    -7.0        9.2      5.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                   1975     1985      1994      1995      Growth rates of output and investment (h)
Agriculture                                            27.7       7.3      8.9      40
Industry                                               43.6      25.8     28.5      20 -
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..      23.1      24.9      o
Services                                               28.8      66.9     62.6      -5
.207
Private consumpton                              .      56.9      72.4     65.2    4-40                    4
General govemment consumption                    .     22.4      18.2     20 4                     GDI        GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services        .   . .          61.1     52.1               -
1975-84  1985-95     1994      1995 -
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                                      -11.5     1'5      30T
Industry                                                        -10.2      5.6   1
Manufacturing                                                  -7.6       85      205
Services                                                         17.0       1.4     10 l
Private consumption                                                ..   -10.0        0                                 Z\
General govemment consumption                                              11.1            9s   91   92   93   *            95
Gross domestic investment                                       -17.7     28.1    .10 -
Imports of goods and non-factor services        .        ..      -4.0      2.3
Gross national product                          .        .        1.2      2.1                    Expons  -mpor1s
Note 1995 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



2
Lithuania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1994      1995
Domestic prices                                                                          Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                              1.500
Consumer prices                                    ..                72.1     31.0                            A
Implicit GDP deflator                            -4.3     27.0       51.4      27.5
5500
Govemment finance
(% of GDP)                                                                                 0
Current revenue                                    ..        .       32.1      34 6               90   91   92   93   94   95
Current budget balance                             ..       ..        1.2       2.0               -     GDPdef.  -0-*-PI
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..       ..       -5.2      -4.0
TRADE
1975    1985       1994      1995
(millions US$)                                                                           Export and import levels /mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                ..               1,930    2,210      3.000 
n.a.
n.a.
Manufactures                                     .         -       863      1,054     2.000 -
Total imports (fob)                                          -      2,530    2,893
Food                                              1.1            5        0       0     ,
Export price index (1987=100)                      ..       ..         ..        ..            a         91   92  93   94   95
Import pnce index (1987=100)                      ..        ..         ..        ..                  zExports   On Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                         -.         .         .          .i
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1994      1995
(millions US$)                                                                           Current account balance to GDP ratio (%   l
Exports of goods and non-factor services           ..        .     2.279     2,623      25
Imports of goods and non-factor services           ..       ..    2,530    2,893
Resource balance                                  .-                -252      -270      20
Net factor income                                  ..                -21         2         tl
Net current transfers                                                 34        16      lo
Current account balance,                                                                   T
before offical transfers                                           -239      -252 °
Financing items (net)                                                365       347    1 T
Changes in net reserves                                      ..     -126       -95      -10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)                ..       ..       587       713
Conversion rate (locatWUSS)                        --                 2.2       2.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1994      1995
(millions US$)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                         .       568       826
IBRD                                                                49        62                       G  A
IDA                                                                  0         0                 F    32 62
70
Total debt service                                 .                  61        29
lBRD                                                                                        E 
IRDA                                                                 0         0           133                         C
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                       262
Official grants                                            -        25        20
Official creditors                               .         .        58        93
Private creditors                                                  -18        58
Foreign direct investment                                 ..        31        20                   D
Portfolio equity                                          ..         0         0                   267
World Bank program
Commitments                                               ..         0        58      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                             ..         4        12      B-IDA      D-Othermultilateral  F-Pnvate
Principal repayments                                        .                  0      C - IMF                       G - Short-termm
Net flows                                                            4        12
Interest payments                                          .         3         4
Net transfers                                              .         1         8
International Economics Department                                                                                         8/20196
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.
a/ piped water. bl GDP used here is converted into US dollars at official exchange rate.
ct here current account balance excludes current official transfers.



IBRD 26177
Nico                      To Sadus4                          To R,go    L A T V I A
Nic               ,_T o Rigo                                                              ,A   |                                        KILOMETERS
Mazeikioi         Noulo'                 /                                                                 0  10  20  30  40  50
Lake                        ~~~~~~~~Akmene                                                                                     II
pope                   ionilki                                                                   "I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10    20    30
epo;,p. e.                    JBAkmeneiJoniskisj                                  t  rzoi          \.                                       MILES
Baltic  i                                            
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Krea                                                                       P             SndePondelys
Sea   /PIon a                                    --~~-
t                                                                                                   To Do.ga~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pils~~  OoaspI
J  reingca      (Plunge                            ffi                                                                     \ Z. oDogvp
KLAIPEDA  _.Gor!zdoi        \                                          R                                                      '           (o Dougis
10/VX 1 t ) //Kelme g 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( A yksciai                                "I
tilute S- X    X 4>s               <                      X  (  o   l\   X                            --UbnoRt                        BELARUS
N.m  as  N  Taurage                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kedinici                                                 N
N  astb    T.ra                                ~~                             /u.g4                                                           ;
Lagoon                                      Jurbarkos                            Jono    
Cemntahovsk     ,,
R U S SmImATN IGrliOvNA CAP TAL
F ED ER AT I ON                                                                  Elek g>                                        -tre    o-ryn L I T H  U A  N  I A
,jO,,O ~~~~    G-.JrL               _ _            /      Pienai-\1/_,<;5
FINLAND                                                        _                                       /                 URBAN AREAS        ELEVATIONS
) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLCE IIS IN METERS:
)Boltic  r(TOI    RUSSIAN                                                                                      )                 SELECED C                 300
7"  S.              ED.12 150
SW EDE-N                 -.                                                                                      .-TRUNK ROADS                                 '
U    P4-'PLA1VIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    YX~~~Vareo                                             MA -*   IN ROADS0
To S.oolki                                                                                                         0 Zz'    '4   ALOD
A   g    yu-n   LATVIA2 iJ *8 @ z ( \ // | / fJ r B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r    I Lid                                       RAILROADS 5
LTHUANIA>                                                                                +
SLAN       ...    t        POLAND                                                       To Rodun                      -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
iS S  POLAND  8     BELARUS                                                         4/                BELARUS
°1  ,                               BELARUS,G









IMAGING
Report No: P-   6989 LT
Type: PR



