Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19068
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 41020-LT)
April 12, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (ECSPE)
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



LITHUANIA-FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of 20 April 1998)
Currency Unit = Litas
4 Litai = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOL        Bank of Lithuania
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CEFTA      Central European Free Trade Association
CPI        Consumer Price Index
EFF        Extended Fund Facility
EPC        Energy Pricing Commission
EU         European Union
FY         Fiscal Year
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOL        Government of Lithuania
IAS        International Accounting Standards
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IMF        International Monetary Fund
LIBOR      London Inter Bank Offer Rate
LPC        Lithuanian Power Company
LPG        Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MOA        Ministry of Agriculture
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MSL        Minimum Subsistence Level
SAL        Structural Adjustment Loan
SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
TOR        Term of Reference
USSR       Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
Vice President:          Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:         Basil Kavalsky, ECCO9
- Sector Director:          Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Sector Leader:            Kyle Peters, ECSPE
Task Leader:              Marcelo Giugale, ECSPE
Economist:                Jos Verbeek, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
.(Loan 41020-LT)
Contents
Preface ............................................i
Summary ...........................................                                      ii
Part I.
A. Introduction ...........................................l1
B. Project Objectives and Design ............................................            2
C. Achievement of Objectives ............................................4
Appropriate Macroeconomic Framework for Stabilization .........4
Structural Reforms ............................................4
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................6
Factors Not Generally Subject to GOL  Control ..........................6
Factors Generally Subject to GOL  Control .................................7
E. Sustainability ............................................7
F. Bank Performance ............................................8
G. Borrower Performance ............................................8
H. Assessment of Outcome ............................................8
I.  Future Operation ............................................9
J.  Key Lessons Learned ............................................9
Part I.
Statistical Tables ............................................1.1
Part III
Appendix A: Borrower's Evaluation to the ICR
MAP IBRD No. 26177
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization 



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 41020-LT)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Structural Adjustment Loan
to Lithuania, for which Loan 41020-LT in the amount of US$ 80 million was approved by the
Board on October 15, 1996, and made effective October 18, 1996.
The closing date of the loan was June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date
of August 31, 1997. The first tranche in the amount of US$ 40 million was fully disbursed upon
effectiveness (October 18, 1996), and the second tranche of US$ 40 million was fully disbursed
by June 30, 1998, compared with the original date of March 31, 1997.
This ICR was commissioned by Mr. Marcelo Giugale (Principal Economist, ECSPE) and
was prepared by Mr. Elliott Hurwitz (consultant) and finalized by Jos Verbeek (Country
Economist ECSPE). The ICR was reviewed by Pervaiz Rashid, Anders Zeijlon, and Basil
Kavalsky. Preparation of the ICR was based on an ICR mission conducted in September, 1998,
led by Mr. Giugale (Task Manager). It was also based on materials in the project file, including
the President's Report, Letter of Development Policy, notes prepared for the initiation of the
loan, and Back-to-Office Reports from the four supervision missions which included messrs.
Giugale, Meyers (Agriculture), Cook (Banking Industry), Welch (Privatization), Kelly (Energy),
and Lindeman (Social Insurance), and other individuals.
The Borrower also contributed to this ICR by providing its own evaluation of the
project's preparation, implementation, and impact (Appendix A).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 41020-LT)
SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Soon after achieving independence in 1991, the Government of Lithuania (GOL)
launched market-based economic reforms that achieved impressive results. Policies in the real
sector were bolstered by a front-loaded stabilization effort under an IMF Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) arrangement; a currency board was introduced, financial markets freed, the capital account
thrown open, and fiscal deficits reduced.
2.    But in the mid-1990s, a second generation of adjustment problems emerged that
threatened the results achieved and raised serious doubts about the country's growth prospects
and efforts to alleviate poverty. The country experienced serious banking problems--an erosion
of about 50% in the banking system's capital base, accompanied by critical spillovers to the rest
of the economy, including large accumulations of arrears in energy, tax, social insurance, and
wage payments, which put huge pressure on fiscal accounts. The banking crisis, however, was a
symptom of broader imbalances in the real economy, especially in the energy, agriculture, and
social insurance sectors, which had accumulated large arrears to the banking sector. This
problem was exacerbated by inadequate enforcement of bank regulations and poor bank
governance.
Project Objectives and Design
3.    The overall goals of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) were to support the GOL's
program for structural reforms and macroeconomic stabilization by putting the economy on a
path of rapid and sustainable growth, as a way of substantially alleviating poverty. The intention
was: (1) to solve the banking system's current operational and under-capitalization problems; and
(2) to eliminate the most serious sectoral imbalances. The goals of the project were appropriate
and consistent with enabling the GOL to continue reform, and the two principal goals were
mutually reinforcing. The project objectives were clear, realistic, and were linked to monitorable
performance indicators. The SAL was the second operation in Lithuania to support its economic
transition, with the first having been an emergency loan without conditionality.
4.    Beyond the immediate banking crisis, selection of the energy, agriculture, and social
insurance sectors was appropriate. Distortions in energy were very large, and were a serious
ii



threat to the country's fiscal position and overall macroeconomic balance. In agriculture, the
GOL had for decades transferred massive sums to the sector. In social insurance, studies
indicated that if no structural changes were made, the system would soon begin to experience
large deficits.
5.    While the SAL was not contemplated in the 1994 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), it
was fully consistent with the CAS objectives. Inclusion of a SAL in the Bank program was
fitting because: (i) a SAL could include a comprehensive package of actions to simultaneously
address the financial sector crisis and its underlying sectoral imbalances; (ii) a SAL could focus
additional policy attention on the development objectives being pursued by investment
operations, and cross ministerial boundaries to exploit synergies. Finally, the SAL provided
funding needed to implement reforms. The SAL was very closely coordinated with other Bank
and IMF lending, and extensive technical assistance by other lenders was a critical element in the
project's effectiveness. Work under these parallel projects strongly supported SAL progress.
Achievement of Objectives
6.    Macroeconomic Performance--Macroeconomic performance improved greatly during
the SAL, and far exceeded initial expectations. The achievement of objectives in this area was
very substantial: Growth was excellent, with real GDP up about 4.7 percent in 1996 (in spite of
the effects of the banking crisis), 6 percent in 1997 and expected to cumulate in 4.7 percent for
1998, compared with 1993-95 growth rates of -16.2, 1.0, and 3.3 percent respectively. Inflation
declined substantially, with consumer prices rising only 2.4 percent in the year ending in
December, 1998, compared with 13 percent in the year ending December, 1996; the national
debt (as a percent of GDP) fell slightly, and the country enjoyed good access to international
capital markets. The GOL's fiscal situation improved in 1997, with a deficit for the whole year
of 1.7 percent of GDP, compared with around 2.3 percent in 1996. However, the deficit in the
balance of payments' current account rose to 10.3 percent of GDP in 1997, up from 9.2 percent
in 1996 and is estimated to be around 13.5 percent in 1998.
7.    Structural Reform--Overall, the GOL's commitment to reform  and its record of
achievement have been impressive. Achievement of specific objectives has been substantial.
The GOL implemented all SAL-supported reforms, with excellent results. Good progress was
achieved in banking, with: improved bank financial strength; substantial strengthening of
supervision; all operating banks in full compliance with Bank of Lithuania (BOL) regulations;
liquidation or closure of insolvent banks; initiation of bank privatizations; and deposit insurance
applying equally to all banks. After the SAL, it will be critical for the GOL to sustain reforms by
completing bank privatizations and continuing to avoid undue political interference with the
BOL or commercial banks.
8.    Excellent progress was also achieved in energy, with: a major decrease in energy
payment arrears; establishment and operation of an independent Energy Pricing Commission;
sale or initiation of privatization for numerous components of the state-owned energy sector; and
much wider adoption of international-standard accounting, procurement, and management
iii



procedures. Very good progress was also achieved in agricultural, with several legal reforms,
privatization of agricultural enterprises, and reduction in agricultural subsidies. In the social
insurance area, significant reforms were achieved, but at a much slower pace than originally
envisaged.
Implementation Experience and Results
9.    Sustainability--Sustainability is judged as likely.  The measures implemented have
strong backing by the GOL and popular support. They have endured parliamentary and
Presidential elections, and additional changes of personnel as well. Reforms, in the view of
many, have been internalized into the thinking of most Lithuanians, and are also now deeply
embedded in law, regulation, and practice. This is perhaps the most impressive achievement of
the SAL operation. Lithuanians can also see the benefits of reforms, and are aware of the signal
value of the Bank's assessment of the country's structural reform efforts, both for private foreign
borrowing and eventual EU accession.
10.   Bank Performance--Overall Bank performance was highly satisfactory. In the midst of a
banking crisis, the Bank reacted quickly to a GOL request for assistance. The project design was
very appropriate for the circumstances, and was formulated in a highly-participative process.
The Bank closely and effectively monitored supervision. The Bank team was regarded by the
borrower as highly competent and responsive, and a relationship of mutual trust was established
which contributed to progress. As a credible outside party, Bank advice carried substantial
weight in GOL policy deliberations. The "Policy Notes" collection developed by the Bank was
seen as a useful addition to GOL political dialogue, and now, in published form, is to be used as
a basis for continuing dialogue. The borrower also noted that local office support and follow-
through was extremely helpful.
11.   Borrower Performance--Borrower performance was satisfactory. For the most part,
reform goals were met and the GOL was cooperative and helpful. But, in some cases movement
was slow. The GOL was also reluctant to act in some bank privatizations, and the various
agencies involved with the SAL were not always well coordinated. Also, in a number of cases,
GOL prepared legislation and sent it to Seimas, where action was delayed or deferred.
Additionally, Seimas in some instances acted to contradict GOL objectives, e.g., by specifically
exempting by law two state banks from prudential regulation. For the implementation face, there
was no special agency perse, but each individual line ministry (and the Bank of Lithuania) were
the implementing agency and coordinated with the Bank the necessary steps for compliance with
the SAL conditionalities.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Project Outcome--Project outcome is satisfactory.  The project met nearly all key
objectives, and the GOL's record of achievement and commitment to reform is remarkable. The
project has already achieved substantial development impact, which is highly likely to be
Iv



sustained. There was a vast improvement in macroeconomic performance. With respect to
conditionality, all measures required of the GOL were carried out, and in some cases exceeded.
However, progress in reaching some goals was slower than expected. Development and
submission to Seimas of a framework for private voluntary pensions, as well as acceleration of
retirement ages under the public pension system, was successful, but slower than expected.
13.   Future Operation--The GOL has stated that it seems unlikely that there will be a request
for another SAL in the immediate future (although recent developments in international financial
markets may change that expectation). But the Bank and GOL have also agreed to maintain a
continuing and intensive policy dialogue aimed at ensuring that reforms achieved under the SAL
continue. One basis for this dialogue will be enhanced dissemination of the recently completed
Policy Notes: An Opportunity for Economic Success, and the Macro-Financial Vulnerability
review currently undertaken in partnership with the GOL. This policy dialogue will be widened
in due course to include a broad range of individuals in GOL, civic organizations, and the private
sector.
14.   The Bank's FY  1999  Work Program  also  includes an enhanced  short-term
macroeconomic monitoring mechanism as well as the development of an analytical report
assessing the economic impact EU accession (articulating an agenda of policy recommendations
to maximize the benefits of accession).
15.   Key Lessons Learned--The following were the key lessons learned:
A Sustained Program of Information and Education can Bring About Deep Shifts in
Thinking--The SAL team dedicated a great deal of effort, directed both at government
and civic society, to highlighting the benefits of the reform program. This effort was
successful, and may comprise the most far-reaching outcome of the project. Reforms, in
the view of many, have been internalized into the thinking of most Lithuanians, and are
also now deeply embedded in law, regulation, and routine practice. To implement this
type of program  effectively, the SAL team needs appropriate skills and adequate
resources.
* Pertinent Technical Assistance and Effective Donor Coordination Can be Critical to
Project Success--The SAL was conducted in very close coordination with other donors,
which contributed greatly to its success:
The Swedish Agency SIDA organized a work-out unit for bad loans
Management audits of energy enterprises were paid for by EU-Phare
The EU organized "twinning" of Lithuanian banks with those in the EU
. The U.S. Treasury Department provided advice on bank supervision and also
furnished assistance on corporate governance of state-controlled banks
• Adjustment Operations are Most Effective When Part of an Integrated Country
Strategy--While this "lesson" seems self-evident, it was a critical reason for the success
v



of the SAL. The SAL was conducted in parallel with a number of sector operations'
which provided critical resources, momentum, and technical advice.
*  Challenging reform targets can be an important stimulus to action--Targets were
established which challenged the GOL to act boldly across several sectors. The lesson
here is that setting less ambitious targets, even if they might have had a greater chance of
agreement and attainment, would probably have achieved less in the end.
*  A Participative Approach in the Design of the SAL Helped Achieve Consensus--The
project team recognized early that elections might risk timely achievement of project
goals, and took measures to mitigate their effect, including front-loading policy reforms
prior to Board presentation, greater intensity of supervision, and having SAL missions
brief multi-party committees. Nonetheless, the elections and resultant changes in
personnel (as well as personnel changes unrelated to the elections) inevitably made
achievement of consensus more complex and prolonged the period until specified reforms
could be implemented.
'Power Rehabilitation, Enterprise and Financial Sector Reforrn, Energy Efficient Housing, Private Agricultural
Development, and Enviromnental Remediation.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 41020-LT)
A.   Introduction
1.    On March 11, 1990, Lithuania declared the re-establishment of its independence, and the
nation gained international recognition in September of 1991. The country had been fully
incorporated into the USSR's inefficient economic structure , and by the mid-195Os, its economy
was characterized by rapid industrialization, brought about by high rates of capital formation and
forced movement of labor from agriculture to industry. Lithuania's comparatively well-
developed infrastructure and skilled workforce motivated central planners to establish relatively
sophisticated industries in the country, including branches of the textile, leather, and machine-
building and metal working sectors.
2.    During the 1980s, the limitations of the centrally-planned model became increasingly
evident. Between 1982 and 1989, Lithuania's real gross domestic product (GDP) grew on
average by just 3 percent a year, despite annual investment levels of around 30 percent of GDP.
The gradual reform of central planning in the late 1980s did not improve economic performance;
instead, increasing political and economic turmoil in the Soviet Union led Lithuania's economy
into an unprecedented crisis..
3.    Soon after independence, Lithuania launched market-based economic reforms that
achieved impressive results. Price liberalization, voucher privatization, trade opening, legal
reform, institutional development, and social safety net enhancement were implemented.
Policies in the real sector were bolstered by a front-loaded stabilization effort under an IMF
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) arrangement (which followed two Stand-by operations); a
currency board was introduced, financial markets freed, the capital account thrown open, and
fiscal deficits reduced.
4.   In the mid-1990s, a second generation of adjustment problems emerged that threatened
the results achieved thus far and raised serious doubts about the country's growth prospects and
efforts to alleviate poverty. The country experienced serious banking problems--an erosion of
about 50% in the banking system's capital base, accompanied by critical spillovers to the rest of
the economy. This sharp contraction in liquidity caused enterprises to accumulate payment
arrears in energy, tax, social insurance, and wage payments. These arrears, in turn, put
tremendous pressure on fiscal accounts.



5.    The crisis in the banking sector was a symptom  of broader imbalances in the real
economy, and had two deep root causes: (1) the operating deficit of the "quasi-public" sector,
including the aggregate financial performance of the general GOL, the public energy sector,
"strategic" public enterprises, farmers, pensioners, and politically-favored private firms; and (2),
inadequate enforcement of bank regulations2 and poor bank corporate governance. It became
apparent that the deficit could not be contained by short-term measures and that fundamental
sectoral reforms would be necessary to establish a sustainable fiscal balance and restore growth.
B.    Project Objectives and Design
6.    The overall goals of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) were to address these
structural problems by supporting the GOL's reform program and putting the economy on a path
of rapid and sustainable growth, as a way of substantially alleviating poverty. The intention was
(i) to solve the banking system's immediate operational and under-capitalization problems; and
(ii) to eliminate the most serious sectoral imbalances (which contributed to the erosion of bank
capital), focused on the energy, agriculture, and social security sectors. Specific SAL objectives,
by sector, are listed in Table 1, below.
7.    The goals and objectives of the project were appropriate and consistent with enabling the
GOL to continue the reform process. They were also mutually reinforcing, for three reasons:
a) Real-side policy reforms would have been more difficult (if not impossible) to
implement in the midst of a banking crisis
b) More prudent banking would foster financial discipline and adjustment in the rest of
the economy
c) Removing inefficiencies and distortions in the key real sectors would help banks
recover non-performing debt, as well as rebuild their post-restructuring earning
capacity
The project objectives were clear, realistic, and were linked to monitorable performance
indicators (see Table 5, below, in the Statistical Tables).
8.    The link to financial assistance of the Bank through the SAL allowed the GOL to address
fiscal constraints, reduce short-term constraints, and accelerate reforms. The focus of the SAL
on the energy, agriculture, and social insurance sectors was appropriate in view of the
weaknesses in these sectors. Distortions in the energy sector were very large, and were probably
the most serious threats to Lithuania's macroeconomic balance. Obsolete technology, inefficient
pricing, weak payment enforcement, and frequent political intervention caused chronic deficits in
public energy companies, and provided little incentive for efficient management or energy
conservation. In agriculture, the GOL had for decades been transferring, directly or indirectly,
massive sums to the sector. This had the effect of reducing funds available for other uses (e.g.,
2 Although Lithuania's nominal regulations for bank operations (e.g., capital adequacy, liquidity, connected lending,
and other prudential ratios) were broadly in line with international convention, in practice they were not enforced.
2



banking reform), and reduced the competitive pressure on agriculture at a time when efficiency
would soon become a larger issue in the context of potential integration with the EU and
CEFTA. In the social insurance sector, studies indicated that if no structural changes were made,
the system would soon begin to experience large deficits.
9.    While the SAL was not contemplated in the CAS, which was submitted on November 1,
1994), it is fully consistent with CAS objectives. But as a result of evolving circumstances, the
SAL utilized a different set of tools to reach these objectives. These circumstances comprised
"second generation" transition issues, wherein poor bank management and inadequate
supervision of financial markets allowed imbalances in the energy, agriculture, and social
insurance sectors to jeopardize Lithuania's macroeconomic stability, and hence, its prospects for
growth and poverty reduction.
10.   The inclusion of a SAL was appropriate in the circumstances for several reasons: first, a
SAL was an appropriate means to design a comprehensive package of actions that could
simultaneously address the financial sector crisis and its underlying sectoral imbalances. Second,
a SAL could focus additional policy attention on the development objectives already pursued by
ongoing (and envisaged) investment operations, while crossing ministerial boundaries and
exploiting cross-sectoral synergies. Finally, the SAL provided funding essential to implement
necessary reforms.
11.   The SAL was very closely coordinated with other Bank and IMF lending, and with
extensive technical assistance by other lenders3, which, as noted later, was a critical element in
the project's effectiveness. The SAL followed a US$ 60 million Rehabilitation Loan in late 1992
which supported initial reforms, and provided for critical imports. An additional seven projects
were approved between May 1994 and July 1996 in the energy, agriculture, environmental, and
enterprise and financial sectors (see Table 2, below). Work under these parallel projects strongly
supported progress under the SAL. In the enterprise and financial sector project, for instance,
banks had to "qualify" in order to participate, and thus were given an added incentive--and
resources--to restructure. Similarly, under the agricultural development project, Agricultural
Bank was required to upgrade its operations and recapitalize. Similarly, a background study of
pensions was completed which supported progress in the social insurance area under the SAL.
Thus, lending operations were complemented by appropriate non-lending activities.
The Swedish Agency SIDA, work-out unit for bad loans; EU-Phare, management audits of energy enterprises and
"twinning" Lithuanian banks with those in the EU; U.S. Treasury Departnent, advice on bank supervision and
assistance on corporate governance of state-controlled banks
3



C.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Appropriate Macroeconomic Framework for Stabilization
12.   Macroeconomic performance improved substantially over the period during which the
SAL was implemented, and achievement of objectives in this area was very substantial:
* Growth was much better than anticipated at the start of the operation, with real GDP up
about 4.7 percent in 1996, 6 percent in 1997 and 4.7 percent in 1998 (official estimate),
compared with 1993-95 growth rates of -16.2, 1.0, and 3.3 percent respectively.
* Inflation declined substantially, with consumer prices rising only 2.4 percent in the year
ending in December, 1998, compared with 13 percent in the year ending December, 1996.
* The national debt (as a percent of GDP) fell slightly in the year ending in January, 1999,
declining from 23.4 at the beginning of 1997 to 22.1 percent.
* The country enjoyed good access to international financial markets at decreasing interest
rates. A mid-1997 J.P. Morgan-led bond placement of US$ 200 million of sovereign
bonds was done at 105 basis points over LIBOR with a five-year maturity. (The
turbulence experienced in international financial markets since mid-1998 has somewhat
restricted that access.)
• The GOL's fiscal situation improved in 1997, with a deficit for the whole year of 1.7
percent of GDP, compared with around 2.3 percent in 1996. Although the GOL is
planning for a balanced budget in 1999, a broader view of the fiscal situation would need
to consider that state guarantees reached Lt 2.1 billion in January, 1999, nearly
quadrupling in two years.
* On the less positive side, the deficit in the current account widened to 10.3 percent of
GDP in 1997, up from 9.2 percent in 1996, and continued to increase during 1998 to
around 13.5 percent. Although foreign direct investment nearly doubled in 1997
compared to 1996 and reached 5.5 percent of GDP in 1998, the rising current account
deficit warrants concern.
Structural Reforms
13.   Overall, the GOL's commitment to reform and its record of achievement have been
substantial. The GOL implemented all SAL-supported structural reforms, with excellent results
in all areas. Good progress was achieved in the banking sector, with:
-Improved bank financial strength, e.g., State Commercial Bank and Savings Bank
recapitalized to meet BOL capital adequacy requirements
4



. Substantial strengthening of BOL supervision, e.g., International Accounting
Standards (IAS) mandatory for all banks; Annual IAS audits are required for all banks
• All operating banks are in full compliance with BOL regulations
* Liquidation or closure of insolvent banks, e.g., Innovation Bank was liquidated; State
Commercial Bank was de-licensed and its operations merged with Savings Bank.
* Initiation of bank privatizations, e.g., the privatization of Agricultural Bank is nearly
complete, and the sale of Savings Bank has been formally decided by the cabinet and
publicly announced
* Deposit insurance applies equally to all banks
In the post-SAL era, it will be critical for the GOL to sustain these reforms by completing the
various bank privatizations and continuing to avoid undue political interference with the BOL or
commercial banks.
14.   Excellent progress was also achieved in the energy area, with a substantial, sustained
decrease in energy receivables. Total consumer arrears for electricity went from 25 days in
January, 1996, to 42 days in August, 1996, to 14 days in May, 1998. State and municipal
budgetary organizations showed the largest proportional declines. An independent Energy
Pricing Commission, which approved tariffs covering admissible costs of energy companies, was
also established, and international-standard accounting, procurement, and management
procedures were much more widely adopted. Finally, numerous components of the state-owned
energy sector were sold or their privatization initiated.
15.   Very good progress in the agricultural sector:
* The GOL submitted to Seimas (Parliament) an amendment to allow legal entities to
own agricultural land (eventual adoption is expected). Additional amendments
reforming land leasing were submitted to Seimas and were enacted into law.
•  Sale to farmers of shares in enterprises at all stages of the food processing industry
has been completed. Of the 115 enterprises whose privatization was managed by the
Ministry of Agriculture (comprising 83 percent of the share value of firms in the
program), farmers owned 38 percent of shares, employees 50 percent, and the state 12
percent (as of April 1, 1998).
* In addition, 23 agricultural enterprises, most of which were not included in the farmer
privatization program, were prepared for privatization by the Privatization Agency.
* Agricultural subsidies in 1997 were reduced 4.3 percent from the 1996 level (in real
terms) and 11.9 percent from the 1996 level. The 1998 budget allocation anticipates a
further reduction of about 20 percent from 1997.
5



*  Previously "off-budget" funds that were used for subsidized credit were converted
into a Rural Support Fund, which will support rural public investment in a more need-
based and transparent manner.
.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) also reduced the number of overall price
supports. (However, in an action contrary to the overall policy direction, levels of
support for milk prices were increased).
*  MOA formed a Policy Design and Analysis Unit to assess policy options and their
implications.
With the completion of the farmer privatization program and other reforms envisaged in the
SAL, it will be important for the remaining state shares to be sold, for farmers' shares to be
freely traded, and for market forces to be allowed to work fully (including bankruptcy and
liquidation of weak enterprises).
16.  In the social insurance area, significant reforms were achieved, but at a much slower pace
than originally envisaged: in June, 1998, after 18 months of discussion, a legal framework for
private voluntary pensions was put into place; and, while most amendments necessary to modify
the public pay-as-you go pension system were submitted broadly in accordance with the schedule
in the SAL, the key action to accelerate increases in retirement ages was put forward for Seimas
consideration in June of 1998.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
17.   The SAL was approved by the Board on October 15, 1996, and made effective October
18, 1996, in accordance with the schedule in the Memorandum of the President, and the first
tranche amount of US$ 40 million was fully disbursed upon effectiveness. However, while it
had been anticipated that the second tranche conditions would be met by March, 31, 1997, in
actuality the second tranche conditions were met and the second tranche of US$ 40 million fully
disbursed (and the project closed) by June 30, 1998.
Factors Not Generally Subject to GOL Control
18.   Progress under the SAL, although quite substantial as noted earlier, was not as rapid as
had been anticipated at the start of the project. A major reason for this was that Parliamentary
elections were held in October, 1996, just after initiation of the project, and Presidential elections
held in December, 1997 (first round) and January 1998 (second round). With the new GOL in
place, there was a need to explain the details of the project to the new GOL and the new Prime
Minister. Although this risk was recognized in the project design, and measures taken to
mitigate its effect, nonetheless the change in GOL did limit the speed with which reforms could
be achieved.
6



Factors Generally Subject to GOL Control
19.  In addition to the elections noted above, the reform policies that proved most difficult to
implement were: (1) plans to privatize Savings Bank; and (2) the establishment of a legal
framework for voluntary private pensions, which was only achieved in June, 1998, after 18
months of discussion. These were most difficult to implement because of vested interests and
domestic political opposition. The authorities, however, rightly sought to achieve a country
consensus around pension reform, even at the price of delay in implementation; for that purpose,
it established a working group that included independent think-tanks, employer associations,
labor representatives and academics. The group, with extensive technical support from the
World Bank, generated several working drafts until a final law proposal was agreed upon. On
the financial sector side, even despite of this opposition, the government has recently announced
that it will start the process to privatize the Savings Bank.
E. SUSTAINABILITY
20.   Sustainability is judged as likely. The actions taken and measures implemented have the
strong backing of the GOL and seem to have popular support. They have endured parliamentary
and Presidential elections, and a change of personnel in many top positions. Reforms, in the
view of many, have been internalized into the thinking of most Lithuanians, and are also now
deeply embedded in laws, regulations, and routine practices. Lithuanians can also see the
benefits of reforms: in the banking sector, for example, people can see that stronger regulations
and other reforms have resulted in a more stable banking sector, with a stronger capital base.
21.   Lithuania is also aware of the signal value of the Bank's assessment of the country's
structural reform efforts, both for private foreign borrowing and for eventual EU accession. (In
1997, the EU issued a statement that Lithuania's structural reforms had not yet progressed to the
point where it could be considered for early membership negotiations.) This perception that
reforms have to be deepened clearly motivated the GOL to continue the reform process at a time
when it might otherwise have not have done so (specifically, fulfillment of the second tranche
conditions), and will continue to be a motivating force in future.
22.   Continuation of the project benefits depends in part on further actions the GOL needs to
take to deepen reform, including as noted earlier completion of the various bank privatizations
and avoidance of undue political influence on the BOL or commercial banks. Also, with the
completion of the farmer privatization program and other agricultural reforms envisaged in the
SAL, it will be important for the GOL to allow shares to be sold freely, and permit market forces
to work (including bankruptcy and liquidation of weak enterprises). As noted in para 30, the
GOL will be assisted in this process by a continuing and intensive dialogue with the Bank.
7



F. BANK PERFORMANCE
23.   Overall, the Bank's performance was highly satisfactory. As noted earlier, project
objectives were clear and realistic. In the midst of a banking crisis, the Bank reacted quickly to a
GOL request for assistance. The project design was very appropriate for the circumstances of the
country, and was formulated in a highly-participative process with the borrower.
24.   The Bank team was regarded by the borrower as highly competent, and a relationship of
mutual trust was established which contributed to progress. When the GOL raised questions, the
Bank team responded quickly and in a manner which facilitated agreement. As a credible
outside party, the Bank's advice carried substantial weight in GOL policy deliberations. 4 The
"Policy Notes" collection subsequently developed by the Bank were seen as a useful addition to
Lithuanian political dialogue, and now, in published form (with Lithuanian comments included),
are set to be used as the basis for a continuing dialogue.
25.  The borrower noted that local office support and follow-through was extremely helpful.
The Bank effectively monitored implementation of the policy measures specified in the project,
and documented supervision missions clearly.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   Borrower performance was satisfactory. For the most part, reform goals were met and
GOL was cooperative and helpful. But, as noted earlier, in some cases movement was slow.5
GOL was also reluctant to act in some bank privatizations, and the various agencies involved
with the SAL were not always well coordinated.
27.   Also, in a number of cases, GOL prepared legislation and sent it to Seimas, where action
was delayed or deferred.' Additionally, Seimas in some instances acted to contradict GOL
objectives, e.g., by specifically exempting 2 state banks from established prudential regulation.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
28.   Project outcome is assessed as satisfactory. As described earlier, the project met all of its
key objectives, and the GOL's record of achievement and commitment to reform has been
remarkable. The project has already achieved substantial development impact, and this is highly
likely to be sustained and extended. There was considerable improvement in macroeconomic
performance. With respect to conditionality, all measures required of the GOL were carried out,
and in some cases exceeded (e.g., progress in reducing agricultural subsidies exceeded what was
required). However, as discussed, progress in reaching some goals was slower than had been
' The Bank was credited, e.g., with providing very timely advice that resulted in a law permitting private pension
funds to be drafted and sent to Seimas.
To a certain extent, this could be attributed to the change in government after the election.
6 E.g., an amendment which the Govemment submitted to allow legal entities to own agricultural land.
8



anticipated. Development and submission to parliament of a framework for private voluntary
pensions, as well as acceleration of retirement ages under the public system, was accomplished
successfully. But the process by which that was accomplished, although widely participatory,
took much longer than initially anticipated, delaying completion of the project.
1. FUTURE OPERATION
29.   The GOL has stated that it appears unlikely that there will be a request for another
Structural Adjustment Loan in the immediate future. (However, recently changing conditions in
international financial markets may alter that decision.)
30.   However, the Bank and the GOL have also agreed to maintain a continuing and intensive
policy dialogue aimed at ensuring that reforms achieved under the SAL continue and are
deepened. One basis for this dialogue will be an enhanced dissemination program for the Policy
Notes developed by the project team on technical issues and reform progress in each relevant
sector (these have now been published and are to be circulated widely). This policy dialogue
will be widened to include a broad range of individuals in GOL, civic organizations, and the
private sector.
31.  In addition, the Bank's FY 1999 Work Program includes an enhanced short-term
macroeconomic monitoring mechanism, a Macro-Financial Vulnerability Review and, at the
GOL's request, development of an analytical report assessing the impact on the Lithuanian
economy of joining the EU.
32.   As noted earlier, continuation of project benefits also depends in part on further actions
the GOL needs to take to deepen reform, including completion of bank privatizations and
avoidance of undue political influence on the BOL or commercial banks. Also, it will be
important for the GOL to allow farmer shares to be sold freely, and permit market forces to work
more fully in this area.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
33.   A Sustained Program of Information and Education Can Bring About Deep Shifts
in Thinking--The SAL team dedicated a great deal of effort --aimed both at government and
civic society to highlighting the benefits of the reform program. This effort was successful, and
may be the most far-reaching outcome of the project. Reforms, in the view of many, have been
internalized into the thinking of most Lithuanians, and are also now deeply embedded in law,
regulation, and routine practice. As one example, policy-makers now readily accept the notion
that any support or subsidies the government provides (i) impose opportunity costs; and (ii)
affect the international credibility and standing of the country regarding such critical questions as
potential private borrowing and possible EU accession.
9



34.   Pertinent Technical Assistance and Effective Donor Coordination Can be Critical to
Project Success--The SAL was conducted in very close coordination with other donors, which
contributed greatly to its success:
*  The Swedish Agency SIDA organized and supported a work-out unit for bad loans
*  Management audits of energy enterprises, part of the conditionality of the SAL, were
paid for by EU-Phare
*  The EU organized and paid for "twinning" of Lithuanian banks with those in the EU
*  The U.S. Treasury Department provided advice on bank supervision and also furnished
assistance on corporate governance of state-controlled banks, something that proved
critical when those banks were privatized
In addition, the SAL team worked very closely with the IMF, both in the field as well as
in Washington, so that actions under the EFF program were well-coordinated with actions being
taken under the SAL.
35.   Adjustment Operations are Most Effective When Part of an Integrated Country
Strategy--While this "lesson" seems self-evident, it was a critical reason for the success of the
SAL. The SAL was conducted in parallel with a number of sector operations which provided
critical resources, momentum, and technical advice that facilitated achievement of the SAL
agenda. For example, the Enterprise and Financial Sector project required banks to restructure to
qualify for participation, thus providing an additional incentive for reform. Similarly, the Private
Agricultural Development project required Agricultural Bank to recapitalize, again helping to
achieve SAL goals.
36.   Challenging reform targets can be an important stimulus to action--In each sector
included in the SAL, targets were established which challenged the GOL to act boldly. While
there were certainly legitimate differences of political judgment about some conditions, the
presence of the matrix and its associated timetable undoubtedly stimulated the pace of reform by
highlighting the economic dimensions of issues. The lesson here is that the setting of less
ambitious targets, even if they might have had a greater likelihood of agreement and attainment,
would probably have achieved less in the end.
37.   A Participative Approach in the Design of the SAL Helped Achieve Consensus--The
project team recognized early the then-upcoming elections as a potential risk to timely
achievement of project goals, and took measures to mitigate their effect, including front-loading
policy reforms prior to Board presentation, greater intensity of supervision, and having SAL
missions brief relevant multi-party committees. Nonetheless, the parliamentary elections in
October, 1996, and resultant changes in personnel,' along with two rounds of Presidential voting
in December, 1997, and January, 1998, inevitably made achievement of consensus more complex
and prolonged the period until the specified reforms could be achieved.
7 There was also considerable turnover among GOL officials unrelated to the elections.
10



Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans and Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Cumulative Loan Disbursements
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Studies Included in Project
Table 7:    Project Cost and Financing
Table 8:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 10:   Bank Resources-Staff Inputs
Table 11:   Bank Resources-Missions
11



STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Substantial        Partial        Negligible        N/A
Macro policies                      N
Sector Policies                     N                               _          _
Financial objectives        _                                                   _
Institutional development           4
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                   4
Gender issues                                                                        4
Other social objectives     _
Environmental objectives                                                             N4
Public sector management                    _
Private sector development           4_
Other (specify)                                                                      N4
B. Project sustainability
Likely       - Unlikely         ncertai4
C. Bank Performance
Highly        Satisfactory     Deficient
satisfctory
.
D. Borrower performance
Highly        Satisfactory     Deficient
satisfactory
.  .~~~~.
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly        Satisfactoiry   Unsatisfactory     Highly
satisfactory                  }                 unsatisfactory
12



Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
00;,,:;Loain Tite .t   Pur0pos',,eSAiii    Yer,#*lV0700:0707..f;.000000 ofAproalStt
Preceding Operations
Rehabilitation       Balance of payments         1992          Closed
support, critical
imports
Power Rehabilitation   Improvement of             1994         In implementation;
power sector                              closes 6/99
Klaipeda Environment Environmental                1994         In implementation;
remediation         .                     closes 3/99
Enterprise and       Strengthening                1995         In implementation;
Financial Sector    financial and                              closes 6/01
enterprise sectors
Enterprise and       Strengthening                1995         In implementation;
Financial Sector    financial and                              closes 6/01
enterprise sectors
Siauliai Environment  Environmental               1995         In implementation;
remediation                               closes 6/00
Private Agricultural    Enhancing private         1996         In implementation;
Development          agricultural ownership                    closes 6/01
Klaipeda Geothermal  Utilization of               1996         In implementation;
_____ _ ___ _  geothermal energy                    closes 7/99
Energy Effic./Housing  Enhancing energy           1996         In implementation;
efficiency of housing                     closes 12/00
Following Operations
Highway              Highway                      1996         In implementation;
improvement           l_closes 12/00
Soc. Pol. Comm. Serv  Social Development          1997         In implementation;
closes 10/02
Table 3: Project Timetable
g Steps in projectyle            Date plane               Atual datet
Identification                     January, 1996         January, 1996
Preparation                        May, 1996             May, 1996
Appraisal                          June-July, 1996        June-July, 1996
Negotiations                        September, 1996       September 6-10, 1996
Letter of development policy       September, 1996        September 7, 1996
Board presentation                 October, 1996         October 15, 1996
Signing                            October, 1996         October 18, 1996
Effectiveness                      October, 1996          October 18, 1996
First tranche release              October, 1996          October 18, 1996
Second tranche release             March, 1997           June 30, 1998
Project completion (last disbursement)  March, 1997       June 30, 1998
Loan closing                       August 31, 1997        June 30, 1998
13



Table 4: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$ millions)
._______________ _   iFY   1997                 FY  1998
Appraisal estimate         US$ 80 million              -0-
Actual                     US$ 40 million              US$ 40 million
Actual as % of estimate    50%                         50%
Date of final disbursement                             June 30, 1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Area      cProjed                    Aetion                      ImplementationRecord
Timing
Overall    Prior to Board  Progress under the GOL's Policy Program to   Progress was satisfactory
Policy     presentation    be satisfactory to the World Bank       prior to Board
presentation
Prior to second  Progress under the GOL's Policy Program to   Progress was satisfactory
tranche       be satisfactory to the World Bank        prior to second tranche
disbursement                                           disbursement
Banking    Prior to Board  Recapitalize State Commercial and Savings    Implemented prior to
presentation    Bank                                   Board presentation
"4      Initiate bankruptcy for Vakaru Bank and             "
revoke license
"4      Submit to Seimas amendments that (i) increase
penalties on bank management for non-
compliance with BOL regulatory
requirements; (ii) give BOL authority to
remove bank management and directors; (iii)
in case of insolvency, give BOL right to
transfer bank shareholders' rights to public
management
"4      Change relevant regulations to lower "large
exposure ratio" to at most 25 percent of
capital, and expand definition of "borrower."
Expand definition of "borrower" in relation to
connected lending to bring into line with EU
and IAS standards
Prior to second  Assure that all operating banks are in full  Implemented prior to
tranche       compliance with BOL regulations          second tranche
disbursement                                           disbursement
"6      Initiate bankruptcy for and revoke license of       "
Innovation Bank if at least 40 percent of large
private deposits have not been converted to
equity by 12/1/96
Prepare and publicly a nnounce a privatization     "
14



plan covering all state ownership in the
banking system
Take legal action to abolish state deposit
guarantees in state-controlled banks
Energy     Prior to Board  Appoint appropriate number of full-time EPC   Implemented prior to
presentation    commissioners                           Board presentation
Present IAS implementation plans--acceptable
to the Bank--for LPC, Lithuanian Gas,
Lithuanian Fuel, Ignalina NPP, and Mazeikiai
LPC should (i) appoint qualified consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, to conduct
management audits; (ii) provide the Bank with
the consultant's initiation report
Lithuanian Gas should (i) complete TORs for
consultant to do management audit; (ii) obtain
commitment from funding source; (iii) initiate
process of selecting consultant
"Prior to     Implement legislation obliging MOF to    Implemented prior to
second tranche  withhold from regular transfers to budgetary   second tranche
disbursement   organizations necessary amounts to assure that disbursement
debts to LPC or Lithuanian Gas do not exceed
30 days of billing.
(i) EPC reviews energy prices and
recommends to GOL price adjustments for
coming year; (ii) GOL shows evidence of
commitment to implement tariff levels
recommended by EPC
Agriculture  Prior to Board  Starting in 1997 and continuing thereafter,    Implemented prior to
presentation    GOL will (i) reduce aggregate budget for  Board presentation
subsidies by 4 percent per year in real terms;
(ii) for each product for which minimum
support prices are set, these prices will not be
increased in any year by more than 75 percent
of CPI inflation rate.
Prior to second  Submit to Seimas an amendment to Article 47  Implemented prior to
tranche       of the Constitution to allow legal persons to    second tranche
disbursement   own agricultural land                    disbursement
Compliance with targets and timetable of          "
agricultural privatiztiaon schedule
Social     Prior to second  Submit to Seimas amendments to the pension   Implemented prior to
Insurance  tranche        law, acceptable to the Bank, that (i) increase   second tranche
disbursement   effective retirement age by at least 6 months    disbursement
per year for men and women; (ii) modify
eligibility conditions and benefit structure to
provide incentives to contribute throughout the
working life; (iii) with respect to quarterly
15



Area   |Psroj'ected   |Action                                  |Impl1ementation Recordi
Timing                                             5
adjustment of supplementary part of pensions,
give Social Insurance Council power to adjust
supplementary part; (iv) de-link basic part of
pensions from MSL; (v) require state budget
transfers for all non-contributory periods
Put into place legal framework for private
voluntary pensions
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at          Status            Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
EU-Phare,       Strengthening management of   Completed         Successful
management      energy enterprises
audits of energy
enterprises
Background      Define policy choices and long- Completed       Made substantive
study of pensions  term financial implications of               contribution to pension
which supported   various options                               legislation developed by
progress in social                                              GOL
insurance area
EU-Phare report  Present energy regulatory   Completed          Provided technical
on energy       methodologies based on                           background for energy
regulatory      international experience                        regulators
instruments
"Policy Notes"    Provide agenda for further  Completed; now     To be determined
collection      GOL policy consideration of    being disseminated
additional reforn measures  to GOL and public .-
Table 7: Project Cost and Financing
id --:                                                ate (US$ miion)
Foreigui                   ~~~~Foreign
Sourtie     - wal, -    -sts              Total    tocal::-stsa:   costs,    Total
IBRD/IDA                 0           80.0        80.0          0          80.0       80.0
Cofinancing              0            0           0            0           0          0
institutions
Other external sources   0            0            0           0            0         0
Domestic contribution    0            0            0           0            0         0
Total                     0          80.0        80.0          0          80.0       80.0
16



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Sec. 3.02   accounting/   C       continuous   continuous   Borrower shall have Deposit
auditing                                         Account audited by auditors
acceptable to Bank and make
audit available
Schedule   Project Impl.  C       continuous   continuous   Continued maintenance of
3-1                                                         macroeconomic framework
consistent with program
objectives
Schedule   Project Impl.  C       Second       Second       Submit satisfactory evidence
3-2                               Tranche      Tranche      that (a) all banks are in
Release     Release      compliance with BOL
regulations;
Project Impl.  C       September,   September,  (b) bankruptcy proceedings
1996        1996         have been initiated for
Innovation Bank and its license
revoked if at least 40% of its
private deposits have not been
converted into equity;
Project Impl.  C       n.a.         n.a.         (c) reopening Innovation Bank    Innovation
is contingent on its compliance    Bank was
with BOL regulations          liquidated
Schedule   Project Impl.  C       Second       Second       Prepare and announce publicly a
3-3                               Tranche      Tranche      privatization plan, satisfactory to
Release      Release     the Bank, covering all state
ownership of banks
Schedule   Project Impl.  C       September,   September,   Start operation, in a manner
3-4                               1996         1996         satisfactory to the Bank, of the
Energy Pricing Commission
Schedule   Project Impl.  C       Second       Second       Take legal action to abolish
3-5                               Tranche      Tranche      state guarantee of deposits in
Release      Release     state-controlled banks
Schedule   Project Impl.  C       Second       Second       Take measures satisfactory to
3-6                               Tranche      Tranche      the Bank toward privatization
Release     Release      of: (a) LPC and Mazeikiai; (b)
the LPG activities of Lithuania
Gas; (c) Lithuania Fuel; (d)
operation of Klaipeda Oil
Terminal
Schedule   Project Impl.  C       Second       Second       Submission to Seimas of draft
3-7                               Tranche      Tranche      constitutional amendments to
Release     Release       allow ownership of farm land by
legal persons
Schedule   Project Impl.  C       Second       Second       Compliance with targets and
3-8                               Tranche      Tranche      schedule indicated in the
Release      Release      agricultural privatization
schedule
17



Schedule   Project Impl.  C       Second       Second      Submission toSeimso  rf
3-9                               Tranche      Tranche     amendments to the Pension Law
Release     Release      to: (a) increase the effective
retirement age by at least six
months per year for both men
and women; (b) modify the
eligibility conditions and benefit
structure to provide incentives to
contribute throughout the
working life; (c) with respect to
the quarterly adjustment of the
supplementary part of pensions,
give the Social Insurance
Council the power to adjust the
supplemental part, provided the
adjustmnent is not below the
lower of wage or price growth;
(d) de-link determination of the
basic part of pensions from the
minimum standard of living; and
(e) require state budget transfers
for all non-contributory periods
Schedule   Project Impl.  C       Prior to     Prior to    (a) Establish legislation
3-10                              Board        Board       requiring MOF to withhold from
Presentatio   Presentatio  its regular transfers to state and
n           n            municipal budgetary
organizations amounts necessary
to ensure that these
organizations' debts to LPC or
Lithuania Gas do not exceed 30
days worth of billing; and (b)
reduction of the accounts
receivable of LPC and Lithuania
Gas, in respect of said
organizations, to not more than
30 days worth of billing
* C = complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title               Description and comment on lack of
-           |               ~~~~~~~complianIce
All relevant OM statements complied with
18



Table 10: Bank Resources--Staff Inputs
Preparation to appraisal          75.5           270           75.5           264.5
Appraisal, negotiations            34            45            33.3            44.7
through Board approval
Supervision/tranche release       149            191          144.9           344.5
Completion                         6             24            5.0              18
Total                             265            530           259             671
Table 11: Bank Resources -- Missions
'~  f
Preparation       1/96       15          14      Financial Sector   NA           NA
Energy
Agriculture
Social Insurance
Macro Economics
5/96       13         16                         NA           NA
Appraisal         7/96       11          1 1     Financial Sector   NA           NA
Energy
Agriculture
Social Insurance
Macro Economics
Supervision       2/97        10         13      Financial Sector   S            S               Slower
Energy                                         progress
Agriculture                                    than
Social Insurance                               expected in
Macro Economics                                the energy
sector where
arrears have
stopped
falling and
19



tariffs may
be again
below cost
recovery
levels.
Supervision       4/97        12         17       Financial Sector                                Re-
Energy                                          appearance
Agriculture                                     of capital
Social Insurance                                deficiencies
Macro Economics                                 in the
banking
system. little
progress
seems to
have been
made in the
privatization
of energy
companies
and delays
have taken
place in the
submission
of
amendments
to the public
pension law
Suipervision      10/97       12         17       Financial Sector   S            S               Slower
Energy                                          progress
Agriculture                                     than
Social Insurance                                expected in
Macro Economics                                 privatization
of State-
owned
Banks and
social
insurance
reforms
remain in
the design
stage
Supervision       5/98        10         12       Financial Sector   S            S               Awaiting
Energy                                          submission
Agriculture                                     to
Social Insurance                                parliament
Macro Economics                                 of agreed
pension
legislation
Supervision/      9/98        2          7        Supervision/ICR    S            S
completion
20



APPENDIX A
BORROWER'S EVALUATION TO THE ICR



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
IBRD SITRUCTURAL ADJUSTMEN LOAN NO. 4102-LT
RElPBLIC OF LLTHUANIA
"Borrower's Evaluation"
Loan Amount:                   USD 80,000,000.00
Date of Signing:               October 16,1996
SUMMiARY
RA("GROUD
Soon after tie declaration of independence, Lithuania launede the program of
the !aarket - based economic reforms. A new market - based, private sector - led
development strategy was adopted. P=ce liberalisation, voucher privatisation, wtade
opening, legal refoim, institational development were impld
In early 1996, howevcr, the economy has faced problematic tra2ition
challenges. The new issues threatened both the reform results already achieved and
the medium - term growth prospects of the country. A banking crisis in early January
of that year has affected the whole economy and led to the deep imbalances in key
sectors of the economy - energy, agriculture and social insurance. With the suppost of
the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) from the World Bank, the authorities
embarked on a broad economic reform program
OBJECT7VES
The proposed two - tranche loan provided necessary assistance to the LithLanian
Government in the implementation of its strucural reform program, with its uWtAmate
objective of putting the economy on a path of rapid and sustainable growti, as a
means to permanently reduce poverty. The main objectives of the Loan were:
1) To solve the banking system's operational and under-capitalization problem,..
2) Elimination of the most serious sectoral imbalances in the rest of the economy
(which contribute to the bank capital erosion), especially ia the energy, agriculttre
and social security sectors.
It was decided tha key reforms should include:
1. A new regulatory famework in the banking sector to foster prudent and efficient
practices.
2. Commercialization, institutional reform and pfivatizations in the energy sector so
as to achieve financial sustainability and efficiency gains.
3. Improvements in the law governing, and the administration of, social insurance
system while creating a framework for private sector involvement.
4. Rationalizations of agricultural support mechanisTns, while increasing the role of
the private sector and opening up to international trade.



l 'ie proposed SAL objectives were not only ver-y important for the country at that
time due to the problematic situation caused by the banking crisis, but also very
helpful for further movement towards the market - based economy. Due to the
objectives settled in the Loan Agreement, not only imbalances in the banking system
were stopped, but it also helped to restructure all bancking system and to make main
strucural reforms in the energy, agrculture and social inurance sectors.
ACBEMVEMENT OF OBJECTZIES
Structural Adjustment Loan was implemented achieving objectives settled in
the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the EBRD to the Executive
Dire: tors, and Sectoral Objectives, settled in the Lithuania Government's Policy
Proma am.
Therefore the Banking sector contained four Sectoral Objectives. IThere were
no significant modifications made during the implementation process. None ozf the
requirements, from the business standpoint, were demanding. However, from the
politi cal standpoint taey were moderately iisky.
The main sectoral objectives for the Banking System were:
1) Resolve short- term problems in the banking industry
2) Reduce the public sector's roJe in the banking
3) Assure compliance with existing prudential rules.
4) Revise laws and regulations to assure the new  banking sector is
prudentially sound and public confidence is restored.
All items described in Actions for the objectives, already taken. Policies to be
impL ;uented before Board Presentation, Policies to be implemented before Second
Tran,:h release, and Medium - term Commitments were met with one exception.
Thir,t was the requiirement to privatize the Savings Bank and the State Commercial
BarI by December 1997. The State Commercial Bank was liquidated, transfIiring
per: irming assets to Work - out unit Turto bankas. The Government has committed
to privatize the Saving Bank not later that one year from the date of receiving bidding
offers on the Agrictltural Bank
The design of the project was appropriate for achieving the desired results, and
the Rresident's report properly quantified the criteria for judging the achievement of
the objectives.
There have been major achievements in the energy sector, mainly due to a
very efficient and helpful support of the World Bank Since the beginning of SAL
im.l-.tmentation, an autonomous and powerfil Energy Pricing Commission was
estaliished, Govemnment's debts to the Lithanian Power Company were se LIed,
distriLt heating sector was decentralized and privatization program was accelerated. In
spite of several key reforrns, not yet accomplished, sgnificant improvements in the
energy sector were achieved
Since JuIy 1997, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania stopped energy,
gas and residential heat prcing controL The  nergy Pricing Commission was
est&l)Uished and is working in the nma acceptable to the World BankL The price
setti -g methodology was implemented. According to the Energy Pricing Comn.Ssion
retiodology, full energy cost recovery is assured. Prices for the energy consumnption
in ii: rural areas is reduced by Value added tax.
Legislation )bliged the Ministry of Finance (under the Government Resolution
No. 164, dated 1997.02.27) to withhold from its regular transfers to state and
bud1.-.Touy organizations the necessary amounts to assure that those organizalons'



debt to Lithuanian Power Company do not exceed 30 days worth of billing. The
resolution does not apply for the Lithuania Gas Company.
Government of Lithuania elimrinated direct energy sector subsidies to LPC and
Lithuanian Gas. They remain at zero in the national budget.
All fniarcial accountings in the LPC, Lithuanian Gas, Lithuanian Fuel,
Ignalna NPP and Mazeikiai are made in accordance with Lithuania accounting
legislation, by gradually implementing Interational Accounting Standards- LPC is
implementing SCALA accounting system, having an objective to separate accounts
for energy generation, transmission, and distribution sectors. The SCALA accounting
system is going to be implemented at the end of 1998. Having an objective to achieve
better managing policy in LPC and Lithuanian Gas, intenational companies "Coopers
and i 1ybrand" and "Pandrexe' are accomplishing management and performance audit.
Imn-aenting the- objective "Better Corporate governance', the Governmu-Z of
Lithi ania liquidate I the councils of observes in the biggest energy companies of
LiftLania, establishing a board consisting of civil servants, as more efficient
ma , ging unit.
LPC is preparng for the next step of restructuriza±ioa- Government intends to
decentralize electricity distribution network in 1999. The Government of Lithuania
inter IS to privatize all oil sector companies: Lithuanian Fuel, Mazeikiai, Bt:.tnge,
Naft dekis, and Gaonafta. The level of private capital in these companies will be
rais- f by selling Government paut stocks or by new equity emission
All Lithuania energy sector companies are working in compliance with Public
pro cirement law.
Reforms in the agnicultural sector were completed successfilly. The objedives
settled in the Memorandum helped Government to put Lithuanian agriculture atuctor
on ..: apid growth path. Litbuania initiated a transition program in agrculture to treate
a privatized and market - oriented sector. Land reform and privatization,
liberalization of tie rnacro environment, creation of a new incentive frame vork,
instihttional and legal reform zepresents the major components of the reform. The
Government implemented more transparent, more cost-effective, better-targeted and
less distorting support for agnculture sector, especially for famers. The progress in
farm and land privatization is significant. Lithuania is preparing the sector for EU
accession. The SAL made very significant impact on the results achieved. The support
of the Consultants was particularly valuable.
Reforms in the Social Insurance sector were crucial as Lithuania's social
insurance system faced cash flow deficits. These were due to the weak rev enue
collfection, caused by the too high real value of pensions or by the too fast grow of the
pen ioners. The Sector needed broader eamination to stop furtier cash flow deficits.
Th -uppoIt of the World Bank in this sector exposed the main problems and helped
to reduce the negative systems burden cn the fiscal budget. All relevant laws and
reg4ations detennined in the Lithuania Government's Policy Program were passed to
Seimas. The support of the World Bank was very significant preparing the drafts. All
measures for the improvement of social insurance administration and contribution.
col'.ction were implemented successfully.
MAJOR FA CTORS AFFECTIG TIE PROJECT
There were no major factors affecting the ability of Lithuania to achieve the
project objectives- Economic conditions continued to improve and as a result



facilihated the efforts of the Governnment of Lithuania. There were no significant
implementation delays.
WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
During the Project implementation stage, the performance of the World Bank
was highly satisfactory, as the economy of the Republic of Lithuania faced deep
imbalnces in key sectors of the economy - banking, energy, agrclture and social
insurance. The World Bank performance in this stage helped to stop these processes.
With the support of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) from the World Bank, the
authorities embarked on a broad economic reform program.
The main objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy were to raise living
standards of the Lithuanian people, to achieve macroeconomic sustainability, to
impx ove efficiency in the financial system, social safety net and infrastructural
services, especially energy. With the support of the SAL, most of these objectives
were met. The SAL helped to identitf the main problematic aspects and to design a
comprehensive package of actions to stop further imbalances in the above mentioned
sectcrs.
The performance of the World Bank during the project preparation stage was
also highly satisfactory. The performance of the World Bank consultants was
especially valuable. The objectives of the SAL were settled in compliance with the
Lit!b...anian's Government Program.
The work of the World Bank specialists duiing the project appraisal and
supi: --wision stages was highly productive. The project implementation progress was
adeq,;ately reportecl, all implementation problems were identified. Advises given to
Lithuanian authorit-es were takcn iDto account Timing of Missions was adequate to
the Project implementation process. The support of the World Bank specialists was
espefually productive implementing necessary reforms in banking and energy seetors.
All , aultilateral and bilateral agencies agreed with the mnatrix requirements. Litaania
is pleased with the assistance provided by the World Bank and we believe th-at the
situation in main sectors was improved.
BORROWER PERFORMNCE
While  the  timeframe  required  implementing  the  World  Bank
recD a:=endations took longer than either party desired, the end results were good for
both entities. All mnajor loan covenants / commitments were implemented wvth slight
exceptions mentioned above. The main sectoral legal acts were improved enabling to
stol3 main imbalances not only in the banking sector, but also to make main structural
reforms in the energy, agriculture and social insurance sectors.
SUS TAJNABIUTY, ASSESMENT OF OUTCOM  AND LENNONS
LEARNED
Trhe experieuce gained in successfully attaining the goals will encourage Lithuania
to continue in this mode. The Outcome is satisfactory, when compared to the World
Bank requirements, and Lithuania's willingness to meet those conditions, one could
give consideration to increasing the grade to Highly Satisfactory.
Lithuania has no intention to change and/or regress back to the scenario that
existed prior the matrix implementation. While no World Bank folLow-up is ieeded



Lithuania would welcome a review of the implemented changes at any lme-
Litunia's negotiating skills were improved and vast experience was gainl d in
reviewing recommended changes, and the implementation of those changes.
Sincerely,
Asta Bielskiene
Pioject Manager
Deputy Director of the International Department
'Head of the Ioternational Organizations and
Technical Assistance Div.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 26177
T oSoldsj                               T.oRiga    LATV  I AI
X                                                        Lov./  A .  _.S \  t  TO Riga                                              KILOMETERS
)  Nica                                                                                     To RJg                                                        0   10  20  30  40  50
Lake                      Mazeika               oII        .       X                                                                                                  I      I 1
Q fIPepe  ,_f'                    ( /          Akmene                                                                                                     0      ID     20      30
epojo *Of                        /                                 Joniskis/2                        3iBrzali                                                      MILES
an                             'JC                                                                                        ,UA   Pandelys|
Kreting:    :  :T:::.                                                                                                                                  I'p,Io:  IgaoI D.
. .                . To Dog-pils     
KLAIPEDA         Ga6i
,~iBELARUS
|  /\                    . :V4                                 //                  \   I    t I u 0
RlOerveUkre2_
f - - . t - - Xt A ~~~~~Jorborkos-    
RUToSSIAN ,oGrod
Cero'ahovsk
F E D E          R O A ON           T I                     O N     ki                         EleIrenoi0                                        T  L I T H  U  A  N  I A
@oUnomr,Ddono,n'pIon,oflTOKoaio,IdSnG,ingd                vi                  P
. .. jrJ mararrnpo (D  ~_ / -t-vo ,vor7w i 2 k @   NATIONAL CAPITAL
,   URBAN AREAS           ELEVATIONS
SWEDEN 2L TVA ,,D &i@                                                                                     ---                           I _5    it   1 '     -     TRUNK ROADS
$ I 4?;LTI| Touwff  j>                                      /     9     ;     A    , , , 4arenaI.                       IlJ0 is /  R                            AINLROADS
KoIjn%    SIbSt< AN1  /' ^AI¢lrof   t    P O  L A  N  D            ,   D4usk3inl~  .  /                ;!  t?  ruRodun                             -- INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES
S      POLAND )BELARUS  -B
-IT                         SSIAN                                                                                                                         RIVERS                        300



