Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4102 LT
                               Loan Agreement
                         (Structural Adjustment Loan)
                                   between
                             REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated October 16, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4102 LT
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 16, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank):
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated September 12, 1996,
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's
economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance
from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof;
and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, with the modification of Section 6.03 set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
          "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right
          of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
          shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the
          Loan for a continuous period of thirty (30) days, or (b) at
Page  2
          any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the
          Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to
          finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the
          proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines,
          with respect to any contract to be financed out of the pro-
          ceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were
          engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a bene-
          ficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution
          of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely
          and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy
          the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures
          in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been
          eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or
          (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement
          of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
          Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
          referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount
          of expenditures in respect of such contract which would
          otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
          proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an
          amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
          Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from
          the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an
          amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower
          and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to
          make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the
          giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be
          cancelled."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Energy Pricing Commission" means the Energy Pricing
Commission referred to in the Program;
     (c)  "Innovation Bank" means Innovation Bank established pursuant
to Decree No. 28 of the Bank of Lithuania, dated December 20, 1990;
     (d)  "Klaipeda Oil Terminal" means the oil terminal at Klaipeda;
     (e)  "Lithuania Fuel" means Lithuania Fuel Company established
pursuant to Decree No. 66 of the Minister of Energy, dated March 31,
1995, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
     (f)  "Lithuania Gas" means Lithuania Gas Company established
pursuant to Decree No. 63 of the Borrower's Minister of Energy, dated
March 31, 1995 and includes any successor or successors thereto;
     (g)  "LPC" means the Lithuania Power Company established pursuant
to the Decree of the Ministry of Energy No. 176 on Reorganization of
the Lithuania Power System dated August 11, 1995 and includes any
successor or successors thereto; and
     (h)  "Mazeikiai" means Mazeikiai Oil Refinery Company established
pursuant to Decree No. 57 of the Borrower's Minister of Energy, dated
March 27, 1995, and includes any successor or successors thereto.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to eighty million Dollars ($80,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to
the Bank the first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and
Page  3
thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in dollars
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from
the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit
Account.
     (b)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Deposit
Account in support of the Program.
     (c)  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at
any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a
payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall
so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the
Bank upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for
cancellation.
     (d)  No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
shall have reached the equivalent of forty million Dollars
($40,000,000), unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange
of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on
evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the
actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken. If,
after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to
the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to
the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable May
15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                          Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any
Page  4
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (b)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the date of the Bank's request for
such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
     (c)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have rea-
sonably requested.
                                ARTICLE IV
                     Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                                ARTICLE V
                               Termination
     Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty days (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the pur-
poses of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Sermuksniu 6
          2696 Vilnius
          Republic of Lithuania
                                   Telex:
                                   261252 FIMA SU
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
Page  5
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                    By /s/ Alfonsas Eidintas
                                              Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ James Q. Harrison
                                        Acting Regional Vice President
                                               Europe and Central Asia
                               SCHEDULE 1
                         Excluded Expenditures
     For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds
of the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expendi-
tures:
1.   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.   expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed
to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed
or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.   expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-
groups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers,
Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the
Bank by notice to the Borrower:
     Group     Subgroup       Description of Items
     112          -           Alcoholic beverages
     121          -           Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                              tobacco refuse
     122          -           Tobacco, manufactured
                              (whether or not con-
                              taining tobacco substi-
                              tutes)
     525          -           Radioactive and
                              associated materials
     667          -           Pearls, precious and
                              semiprecious stones,
                              unworked or worked
     718       718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                              parts thereof; fuel
                              elements (cartridges),
                              non-irradiated, for
                              nuclear reactors
Page  6
     728       728.43         Tobacco processing
                              machinery
     897       897.3          Jewelry of gold,
                              silver or platinum
                              group metals (except
                              watches and watch
                              cases) and goldsmiths'
                              or silversmiths' wares
                              (including set gems)
     971          -           Gold, non-monetary
                              (excluding gold
                              ores and concentrates)
4.   expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.   expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes
of this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means
goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under
the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environ-
mentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank);
and
6.   in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions, expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services
supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of any payment to
persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
               Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.   General Definitions
     For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings:
     (a)  "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period,
the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account in such Interest Period.
     (b)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each
period from and including an Interest Payment date to, but excluding,
the next following Interest Payment Date.
     (c)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
     (d)  "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in
which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.   Interest
1.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed
Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding
from time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to
its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date,
as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.   (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall
Page  7
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  LIBOR Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until
final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  Fixed Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  Fixed Total Spread.
3.   For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for
six-month deposits in dollars for value the first day of such Interest
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the
day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
          (i)  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
               borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
               to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made
               by it that include such Disbursed Amount for such
               Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
     (c)  "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
in dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a per-
centage per annum.
     (d)  "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
          (i)  one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the
               Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or
               above) the London interbank offered rates, or other
               reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect
               of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions
               thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or
               portions thereof made by it that include such
               Disbursed Amount; plus
        (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing
               Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
4.   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR
Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to
each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
Page  8
5.   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule,
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as
a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in
this Schedule, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn
upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the
new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of
the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during
said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modifi-
cation shall not apply to the Loan.
C.   Repayment
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, the first such
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last
such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.
Each installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed
Amount.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant
to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after November, 15,
2011, the Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount
of all such installments.
3.   After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for
such Disbursed Amount.
                                SCHEDULE 3
           Action Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.   Continued maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent
with the objectives of the Program, as determined on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
2.   Submission of evidence satisfactory to the Bank that (a) all
operating banks are in compliance with the Bank of Lithuania's
regulations, (b) bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated with
respect to Innovation Bank and its license has been revoked if a
minimum 40% of private deposits in Innovation Bank has not been
converted into equity, and (c) reopening Innovation Bank is con-
tingent on its compliance with Bank of Lithuania's regulations.
3.   Preparation and announcement to the public of a privatization
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, covering all state ownership rights
in the banking system.
4.   Commencement of operation, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
of the Energy Pricing Commission.
5.   All legal action has been taken to abolish state guarantee of
deposits in state-controlled banks.
6.   Measures satisfactory to the Bank have been taken towards the
privatization of: (a) LPC and Mazeikiai; (b) the liquified petroleum
gas activities of Lithuania Gas; (c) Lithuania Fuel; and (d) the
operation of Klaipeda Oil Terminal.
7.   Preparation and submission to Parliament of draft constitutional
amendments to allow ownership of agricultural land by legal persons.
8.   Compliance with the targets and time-schedule indicated in the
agricultural privatization schedule to the Program.
Page  9
9.   Preparation and submission to Parliament of draft amendments to
the Pension Law, acceptable to the Bank, which would: (a) increase
the effective retirement age by at least six (6) months per year for
both men and women; (b) modify the eligibility conditions and benefit
structure to provide incentives to contribute throughout the working
life; (c) with respect to the quarterly adjustment of the supple-
mentary part of pensions, give the Social Insurance Council the power
to adjust the supplemental part, provided that the adjustment is not
below the lower of wage or price growth; (d) de-link determination of
the basic part of pensions from the minimum standard of living; and
(e) require state budget transfers for all non-contributory periods.
10.  (a)  Legislation is in place, requiring the Ministry of Finance
to withhold from its regular transfers to state and municipal
budgetary organizations amounts necessary to ensure that these
organizations' debts to LPC or Lithuania Gas do not exceed thirty
(30) days worth of billing; and (b) reduction of the accounts
receivable of LPC and Lithuania Gas, in respect of said organizations,
to not more than thirty (30) days worth of billing.
