          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)



                                                                                                                     Report Number : ICRR0020186


   1. Project Data



     Project ID                                      Project Name
     P104716                                         LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)

     Country                                         Practice Area(Lead)                                Additional Financing
     Liberia                                         Transport & ICT                                    P112081,P115417,P117019



     L/C/TF Number(s)                                        Closing Date (Original)                                     Total Project Cost (USD)
     IDA-H3270,IDA-H5040,TF-92332,TF-96385                   31-Dec-2011                                                             92,000,000.00

     Bank Approval Date                                      Closing Date (Actual)
     31-Jul-2007                                             31-Jul-2015

                                                                  IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

     Original Commitment                                             53,000,000.00                                                 16,375,552.77

     Revised Commitment                                              52,997,057.11                                                 11,830,974.61

     Actual                                                          53,632,111.71                                                 11,486,537.85




     Sector(s)
     Rural and Inter-Urban Roads(48%):Ports/Waterways(18%):Water supply(16%):Other Agriculture, Fishing and Forestry(12%):Central
     Government(6%)

     Theme(s)
     Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction(50%):Infrastructure services for private sector development(25%):Rural services and
     infrastructure(25%)

     Prepared by                         Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator              Group
     Ranga Rajan Krishnamani             Victoria Alexeeva                   Christopher David Nelson            IEGSD (Unit 4)



PHPROJECTDATATBL



     Project ID                                      Project Name
     P112083                                         LR AIDP - Additional Financing ( P112083 )

     Country                                         Practice Area(Lead)                                Additional Financing
     Liberia                                         Transport & ICT



     L/C/TF Number(s)                                        Closing Date (Original)                                     Total Project Cost (USD)
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)



                                                                                                                                          3,000,000.00

     Bank Approval Date                                      Closing Date (Actual)
     29-May-2008

                                                                   IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                      Grants (USD)

     Original Commitment                                                         0.00                                                             0.00

     Revised Commitment                                                          0.00                                                             0.00

     Actual                                                                      0.00                                                             0.00




     Sector(s)
     Agricultural Extension, Research, and Other Support Activities(30%):Crops(70%)

     Theme(s)
     Global food crisis response(100%)




2. Project Objectives and Components

a. Objectives
       The project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreement (Schedule 1, page 4) was.
       “To support the Recipient’s efforts to: (a) rehabilitate its basic infrastructure: and (b) revive its agricultural activities”.
       The project development objective as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 5) was similar.
       “To support the Government’s efforts in re-establishing basic infrastructure and in reviving its agricultural activities”.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
       Yes


       Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
       Yes


       Date of Board Approval
       24-Oct-2013


c.     Components
       Component A. Policy Reform and Institutional Support. Appraisal estimate US$5.70 million. Actual cost US$9.56 million. This
       component financed activities aimed at building capacity of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and
       relevant state agencies - the National Ports Authority (NPA) and Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation (LWSC).
       Component B. Agriculture and Infrastructure Investments. Appraisal estimate US$27.25 million. Revised estimate with additional
       financing US$46.23 million. Actual cost US$43.07 million. This component financed activities in the infrastructure and agricultural sectors.
       Activities included: (i) Rehabilitation and construction of bridges, rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary roads and developing capacity for
       maintaining local roads. (ii) Rehabilitation of Monrovia’s water treatment plant, provision of safe drinking water facilities in selected
       secondary cities and rehabilitation of Monrovia’s water distribution network. (iii) Interventions in the agricultural sector
       (including establishing basic seed multiplication facilities and rebuilding physical marketing infrastructure, such as market places and post-
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)



    harvest handling facilities), and providing capacity building support to existing Farm Based Organizations (FBOs).
    Component C. Project Management and Capacity Building. Appraisal estimate US$0.90 million. Actual cost US$0.90 million. This
    component financed implementation support.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project Cost. Appraisal estimate (including baseline and contingency of 15 percent for civil works) US$37.00. Estimated cost with
    Additional financing US$46.25 million. Actual cost US$43.07 million.
    Project Financing. The project was financed by an IDA Grant of US$37.00 million. There were two additional financings. A grant of
    US$3.00 million and another of US$16.00 million through the Food Crisis Response Trust Fund. With these additional financings, the
    cumulative grant estimate was US$56.00 million. At closure, US$56.57 million was disbursed. The difference between the revised
    estimate and amount disbursed was due to exchange rate changes between the US$ and SDR. There was co-financing for
    complementary activities in the water and road sectors from the European Commission (EC). Appraisal estimate US$12.50 million.
    Actual amount disbursed was US$8.55 million. US$4.48 million was cancelled from the EC Grant at closure.
    There was parallel financing for agriculture sector activities from the Italian Corporation, Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO),
    International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
    Borrower Contribution. None was planned, and none materialized.
    Dates. There were two additional financings and the project was restructured three times.
    The first additional financing on 05/22/2008, approved in response to the worsening global food price crisis, scaled up activities in the
    agricultural sector. Tree crop value chain activities, to be undertaken by the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) were
    added and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) arrangements were applied to the added activities.
    The second additional financing on 06/30/2009, was intended to cover the cost overruns associated with two project activities
    (rehabilitation of road corridors and reconstruction of the collapsed Vai Town bridge). The following changes were also made. (ii)
    Monrovia-Cotton Tree Road Works activities were scaled up by an additional 83 km of roads. (iii) Some activities were dropped (such as
    the rehabilitation of the oil jetty and rehabilitation of five of the six bridges).
    The first restructuring on 06/24/2011 extended the project closing date by 22 months from December 31, 2011 to October 31, 2013 for
    completing the ongoing activities. The second restructuring was on 10/24/2013. The following changes were made through this
    restructuring. (i) The closing date was extended by 11 months for completing the ongoing activities. (ii) The grant agreement was revised
    to allow retroactive financing for water activities. (iii) The results framework was substantially revised: all outcome level indicators were
    either revised or dropped; several intermediate indicators also underwent changes (see Section 10 for details). The third restructuring
    extended the project closing date by additional ten months for completing the ongoing agriculture activities that had been disrupted due
    to the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) outbreak in Liberia.
    The project closed approximately three years and seven months beyond schedule on 31st July 2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The project development objectives were highly relevant to the development challenges facing Liberia in the wake of fifteen years of civil
   war. Rebuilding the critical infrastructure (roads, ports and water sector) that had deteriorated during the conflict period and reinvigorating the
   agricultural sector – the mainstay of the economy – both in terms of sectoral composition of GDP (with over 50 percent of the GDP coming
   from the sector) and occupational distribution of population (with over 80 percent of the population employed in agriculture)- was important for
   both short term recovery and long term stability. And since Liberia is highly dependent on food imports, the importance of developing the
   agricultural sector was further highlighted by the increase in the world price of food in the wake of the global food crisis.
   At appraisal, the project development objective was consistent with the government strategy articulated in the Comprehensive Assessment the
   Agricultural Sector (CAAS- Liberia) in 2007. The development objectives were consistent with the Government’s Interim Poverty Reduction
   Strategy (IPRS) for the 2006-2008 period. Of the four pillars identified in the IPRS, the project supported two pillars, Pillar II and IV. While
   Pillar II highlighted the need for revitalizing the economy, Pillar IV highlighted the need for revitalizing infrastructure and improving delivery of
   basic services.
   The project development objectives continue to be relevant to the Bank strategy for Liberia. At appraisal, the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note
   (ISN) for the 2007-2008 period laid out a comprehensive 18 month strategy that were closely aligned with the priorities expressed in the
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)



       Government’s IPRS. The Bank’s ISN envisioned a continuing lead role for the Bank in the infrastructure sector in Liberia. Of the five pillars
       highlighted in the Bank’s current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the 2013- 2017 period, the project development objectives were
       aligned with three pillars: Pillar II, Economic transformation to reduce constraints to rapid, broad-based and sustained economic growth. Pillar
       III, Increasing access to basic services for human development. And Pillar IV, Governance to improve public sector performance.




       Rating                                                                                 Revised Rating
       High                                                                                   High


   b. Relevance of Design

       The statement of the project development objectives is clear and the causal links between the project activities, their outputs and outcomes is
       logical. Agricultural sector investments (such as establishing basic seed multiplication facilities, and rebuilding physical marketing
       infrastructure) in conjunction with capacity building to the Ministry of Agriculture can be expected to contribute to reviving agricultural activities.
       Investments in the infrastructure sector (such as constructing roads and bridges and rehabilitating the water distribution networks), in
       conjunction with capacity building to the relevant ministries and state agencies (Ministry of Public Works, Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation
       and the National Ports Authority) were to contribute to rehabilitating Liberia’s basic infrastructure. The design also allowed for scaling-up
       interventions in the agricultural sector and this was helpful when the food crisis situation was deteriorating in Liberia during implementation.
       The project design was however complex in relation to the local capacity. The scope of project activities was revised downwards and activities
       such as related to marketing of seed rice, support for cassava production in the agricultural sector, and rehabilitation of the oil jetty in the
       infrastructure sector were dropped during project implementation.




       Rating                                                                                 Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                            Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective

     To support the Recipient's efforts to rehabilitate its basic infrastructure.


    Rationale
    A split rating is applied in the assessment of the achievement of the project against its objectives, as all the outcome -level indicators were
    either revised or dropped following the restructuring of the project on 10/24/2013, when 93.6% of the grant were disbursed.
    Outputs.

        • Capacity building was provided to the National Ports Authority as targeted. External port management team was in place and Monrovia
        port was changed from being a State-Owned enterprise to a “landlord port” with private operator in charge of port operations on a 25 year
        concession contract by 12/31/2009.
        • National Transport Policy was formulated in 2009 and National Transport Plan was prepared and adopted in May 2012, as targeted.
        • New Vai Town Bridge was built as targeted and 25 river crossings were improved as compared to the target of 30. The activity
        pertaining to the rehabilitation of six bridges was dropped and not completed as targeted.
        • The activity pertaining to the rehabilitation of oil jetty was dropped after repeated attempts at procurement. Information later provided by
        the region clarified that this activity was dropped on account of lack of market response to carry out a very specialized job and that the
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)



        government prepared and operationalized a contingency plan and that the construction of a new jetty is now underway.
        • 83 kilometers (Kms) of all-season roads on the Monrovia-Buchanan corridor were rehabilitated. The ICR (p.33) adds that the works
        were partly funded under another Bank project -Urban and Rural Infrastrucutre Reehabilitation Project.
        • 457 cross drainage were built as compared to the target of 623, however the originally planned road works were not executed due to
        higher than estimated costs and closure of EC funding.
        • The following water-related works were carried out: the supply and installation of two high lift pumps and generators at White Plains and
        two pumps and generators to the Newport and Caldwell booster stations, rehabilitation of the Newport, Caldwell, and Ducor reservoirs.
        • Three engineers were trained and 24 Ministry of Public Works staff were trained in International Labor Organization on topics such as
        feeder roads and drainage design.
        • 20 local contractors were trained in Labor based methods in road rehabilitation.
        • Feasibility, environmental and design study were completed for the new landfill location at Mt Barclay.


    Outcomes

        • Port Productivity (measured in moves per crane) increased from three moves per hour/crane to 17, exceeding the target of 10 moves
        per crane.
        • No data is available to measure the increase in access to all season road for targeted rural population, albeit the 83 km Monrovia-
        Cotton Tree road was completed as per target. According to the information provided by the region, since this was a linear corridor, length
        of rehabilitated road was a proxy for improved access.
        • As the water distribution network had deficiencies that were not addressed during project implementation, water is not delivered to
        project beneficiaries. While the production of water increased from 2 to 6 millions of gallons per day, the poor condition of the distribution
        network does not allow the water to get to the reservoirs at Newport and Caldwell for onward distribution to Monrovia. Information later
        provided by the Region clarified that the reservoirs at Newport and Caldwell for onward distribution to Monrovia is now complete.
        Therefore, the outcome target of increasing access to water for residents of Monrovia is considered as achieved.




    Rating
    Substantial




    Revised Objective
    The objective was not revised.

    Revised Rationale
    Below are only the changes reflected from the original results framework.
    Outcomes

        • The outcome indicator related to the increase in access to water for residents of Monrovia was revised to daily production of treated
        water in Monrovia, which was increased from 2 to 6 million gallons per day (MG/D) of water at the White Plains Treatment plant by project
        closure, albeit below the targeted 8 MG/D.


    The increase in the rating here is due to the lowering of outcome indicators following the restructure, but the activities and outcomes for the
    project remained largely the same.


    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)




Objective 2

Objective

To support the Recipient's efforts to revive agricultural activities.

Rationale
Outputs

   • 30 small scale irrigation schemes were rehabilitated as compared to the original target of six.
   • 195.8 hectares (ha) of land for rice cultivation was rehabilitated. This was lower than the original and revised targets of 300 ha.
   • About 20 metric tons of foundation seeds were produced and distributed to farmers in project area as targeted. Seed multiplication was
   carried out by AFRICARE/Central Agricultural Research Institute (CARI) to provide foundation seed to farmers who had been organized
   into FBOs in Bong, Lofa, Gbarpolu and Bomi counties. The production of seed was supplemented by training of farmers in various
   techniques for increasing productivity on farms, as well as the construction of irrigation schemes in the lowland farming areas.
   • Five grain storages were constructed in the project area, exceeding the target of three grain storages, and three grain storages were
   rehabilitated, above the targeted one.
   • Community Grain Reserves were established by project closure.
   • Technical Assistance was provided to the Project Management Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture as targeted.
   • The activity pertaining to the production of cassava in project areas was dropped. The ICR (p.19) adds that the initial efforts of AIDP at
   developing new cassava varieties were continued under the West Africa Agricultural Productivity Program (IDA Credit 4883),which
   resulted in eight new cassava varieties being cultivated by outgrowers.
   • The activities related to cocoa production were cancelled, as tree crop activities were to be delivered under a newly launched Bank's
   tree crops project, the Smallholder Tree Crop Revitalization Project (IDA Credit 5101).



Outcomes

   • Total rice production in Bong and Lofa countries increased to 132,408 Metric Tons (MT) as compared to the target of 134,808. There
   was no baseline for this indicator.
   • Rice yield on beneficiary farms increased from less than one (1.2)MT/hectare (ha) to 2.44 ha at project closure. This exceeded the
   target of 1.44 MT/ha.
   • The outcomes related to the increase in metric tons of cocoa and the number of markets where seed rice is available were not
   achieved, as the related activities were not implemented. These outcome indicators were dropped at project restructuring. The outcome
   target to increase the production of cassava was added during implementation and dropped subsequently, as the related activities were
   not carried out under this project.




Rating
Modest




Revised Objective
The objective was not revised.

Revised Rationale
Below are only the changes reflected from the original results framework.
Outcomes
The outcomes as per the revised results framework were achieved, i.e., increase in total rice production in Bong and Lofa countries, and in
rice yields on beneficiary farms.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)



 The increase in the rating here is due to the lowering of outcome indicators following the restructure, but the activities and outcomes for the
 project remained largely the same.




 Revised Rating
 Substantial




5. Efficiency

Economic Analysis.
Given the emergency nature of the project and conditions in Liberia, there was no conventional economic and financial analysis of the project at
appraisal. At closure, cost effectiveness considerations were assessed in terms of comparing the costs per unit of major works items in rural
roads and feeder roads, with the cost of constructing such roads in Ghana. The analysis concluded that costs were comparable to costs
prevailing in the region.
Administrative and Operational Issues. There were delays associated with preparing the project activities that were to be co-financed, there
were delays associated with commencing the agricultural and rural sector activities on account of capacity considerations. At closure, the EU
Grant was not fully utilized and some activities that were to be financed by the European Commission, had to be financed by the Bank. The
project used the additional financing for appropriately changing the scope from emergency works to full road rehabilitation and at completion all
components were completed despite the capacity considerations in a fragile environment.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             0
 Appraisal                                                                0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             0
 ICR Estimate                                                             0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The project development objectives were highly relevant to the Government strategy and the Bank strategy for Liberia both before and after the
restructure. Relevance of design was rated as Substantial both before and after the restructure. Efficacy of the two sub-objectives was rated as
Substantial before restructuring in 2013 when 93.6% of the loan had been disbursed and Modest after restructuring. The outcomes relating to the
infrastructure sector which accounted for 86% of overall financing were realized. Efficiency was rated as Substantial. There were no cost
overruns and although there were delays, the activities were completed at comparable costs prevailing in the region and despite capacity
considerations in a fragile environment.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)




a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

There is a substantial risk to development outcome. The initially targeted roads under the EC component were not complete at closure.
Given the competing demands for budgetary allocation, it is not clear if these roads would be rehabilitated in the short to medium term. Training
of community based groups for maintenance of roads could not be accomplished due to closure of EC funds. Further, despite the increase
in water production, the distribution network is not functional, the water sector has operational inefficiencies and the capacity to address
management and operational issues is weak. Government ownership and commitment to the port development is reported to be high.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project preparation was expedited as it was an emergency operation in a post-conflict environment and the project became effective
     within six weeks of Board approval. The project built on the work carried out under a prior Bank-financed Technical Assistance (TA) project
     which had assessed infrastructure needs and identified the sectoral inventions that were in critical need of restoration or reform. One
     feature incorporated in design, based on the experience of a project in Sierra Leone was to use Farmer Based Groups for organizing and
     coordinating production and marketing activities. The design, besides making provisions for capacity building of the agency, also envisaged
     implementing aspects of the agricultural sector activities through specialized agencies such as the International Fund for Agricultural
     Development (IFAD) and Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Several risks were identified at appraisal, including high risks
     associated with lack of internal controls in Government systems, risk of failure to achieve the project development objectives and political
     resistance to institutional reforms and mitigation measures were adopted. Arrangements were made at appraisal to ensure compliance with
     fiduciary and safeguards issues (discussed in section 12).
     As indicated in Section 3b, the preparation team underestimated the risk associated with coordination with the co-financier. The preparation
     of the component that was to be co-financed by the European Commission was not complete at appraisal. The grant agreement
     was signed only on July 20, 2010 and these delays contributed to the delays in implementing the targeted activities. The preparation team
     underestimated the capacity of the Special Implementation Unit (SIU) under the Ministry of Public Works to execute the project.
     Despite capacity building of the SIU including through technical specialists in the field, capacity considerations at SIU remained and
     the issue was eventually resolved following the recommendations of the Mid Term Review, when the SIU was replaced by an autonomous
     Infrastructure Implementation Unit (IIU) with international management. The project design was overly complex, particularly given the
     capacity considerations in the country, that in turn contributed to reduction in scope of project activities during implementation. There
     were shortcomings in M&E design, such as mismatch between indicators and corresponding measurement values.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     The supervision missions were about twice a year (with 14 implementation missions spread over a seven year implementation period). The
     supervision team was proactive in responding to problems that arose during implementation. The team also took actions to scale up
     interventions such as securing the food crisis response window grant in the face of global food crisis and restructured the project as needed
     based on emerging realities on the ground such as, scaling up the agricultural sector activities in response to the worsening global food
     price crisis and extending the project closing date by an additional ten months in the wake of the Ebola Virus Disease, to allow agricultural
     interventions another cycle of rice production.
     There were however substantial delays in the early years of implementation that also related to issues of coordination with regards to the
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)



  project activities. As there were many activities revised during implementation to respond to the weak implementation capacity, the project
  results framework was revised extremely late in the project cycle. While this may well have been done to reflect the realities on the ground,
  the late adjustment (during the last year) meant the project was largely measured against the original commitments. Given the effort the
  team had put into the various project adjustments, there should have been greater consideration for what the project actually expected to
  achieve.
  Bank performance at entry was rated as Moderately Satisfactory and Bank supervision was rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. As per
  IEG Guidelines, when the rating for one dimension is in the Satisfactory range and the rating for other is in the Unsatisfactory range, the
  overall rating depends on the outcome rating.




  Quality of Supervision Rating
  Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  The government was committed to the project through the life of the project. At preparation, the government facilitated discussions on the
  key policies to be addressed under the project and prepared the project in a relatively short duration of time. The effectiveness conditions
  were met quickly The government also created a Presidential Delivery Unit (PDU) to monitor and track development projects in the
  infrastructure sector. The government was also committed to reforms in the port sector. The Government also showed strong commitment
  to ensure a transition to the implementation arrangements following the recommendations of the Mid Term Review. As the ICR (p.25)
  notes, in the case of the squatters to be resettled from Vai Town bridge construction, the government implemented the safeguards policy
  and funds for compensation were released in a timely manner.

     • While the government commitment was high in the port sector, their commitment was more limited in the case of reforms in the
     agriculture and water sector.



  Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  The Special Implementation Unit (SIU) created within the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) was responsible for implementing the project
  and the Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) within the Ministry of Finance (MoF) was responsible for managing the financial
  management issues at appraisal. Following the recommendations of the Mid Term Review, the responsibility for implementing the project
  was transferred from the SIU to an autonomous Infrastructure Implementation Unit with international management. Although the SIU was
  committed and had sufficient resources, weak capacity and lack of staff contributed to delays in implementation of the agriculture, roads
  and water activities, and as a result many activities were not implemented as planned. There were also substantial procurement delays,
  and ineligible expenditure that were subsequently returned to the Bank. The delays associated with implementation of the infrastructure
  components under the European Commission resulted in cancellation of funds that could have been used effectively.
  Borrower performance was rated as Moderately Satisfactory and the implementing agency performance was rated as Moderately
  Unsatisfactory. As per IEG guidelines when the rating for one dimension is in the Satisfactory range and the rating for the other
  dimension is in the Unsatisfactory range, the overall rating depends on the Outcome rating.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)



    Moderately Satisfactory




10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   At appraisal, there were five original key outcome indicators - Increased access to water for residents of Monrovia, increase in port
   productivity, increase in access to an all season road for the targeted rural population, increase in number of markets where seed rice is
   available. and percentage increase in metric tons of cocoa. A core transport sector indicator for rural accessibility - rural population within
   two kilometer (km) of an all season road lacked data, and there was no capacity to measure this indicator.




b. M&E Implementation
   The data on selected transport and agricultural sector indicators was collected by the relevant Implementing agencies.
   The key M&E indicators were revised to reflect changes in the project scope and the revised indicators were- total rice production in Bong and
   Lofa counties, increase in port productivity (measured in moves per hour/crane), rice yield on beneficiary farms, and daily production of
   treated water. The outcome indicator related to cassava production was added and dropped during implementation.
   Considering that a substantial amount of project funding was targeted at the Monrovia-Buchanan corridor at the time restructuring, the project
   could have used a more appropriate indicator-such as reduction in travel time- along the corridor.




c. M&E Utilization
   In the port sector, the number of moves per crane continues to be monitored by the National Ports Authority (NPA) and the indicator for
   production of water is measured at the White Plains Treatment Plant, where the newly installed high-lift pumps were fitted with instruments
   for measuring potable water. A sector wide monitoring and evaluation mechanism put in place for monitoring outcomes in the agricultural
   sector continues to be used for other projects that are under implementation. The Task Team Leader clarified that prior to this project, there
   was no mechanism of monitoring such data in Liberia and that the project aided in establishing a streamlined mechanism for monitoring such
   data.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as “Category B” for environmental assessment purposes. The following safeguard policies were triggered:
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01). Safeguard policy pertaining to Pest Management (OP 4.09) was triggered with the addition of
   sector activities following the first additional financing for the project.
   Environmental and Social Management Plans (ESMP) for the water and road sector activities and an Environment Management and
   Resettlement Management Plan associated with the bridge sector were prepared and publicly disclosed as required. The ICR (page 14)
   notes that there was compliance with safeguards policies. It also reports on p.25 that there was a case of the squatters to be resettled from
   Vai Town bridge construction, and the government implemented the safeguards policy and released funds for compensation in a timely
   manner.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)



b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management. The Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) in the Ministry of Finance (MoF) was responsible for financial
   management. At appraisal, the Unit installed a computerized accounting system for producing the financial and accounting reports and
   audits. The PFMU was adequately staffed with experience financial management specialists through implementation and the project’s
   audited accounts, submitted in a timely manner were deemed to be satisfactory (ICR, page 14).
   There was an ineligible expenditure of the European Commission grant in the amount of US$115,574 and these were refunded by the
   government by project closure (ICR, page 14).
   Procurement. The ICR (page 15) reports that procurement processes were carried out in accordance with Bank Guidelines. There were
   however substantial delays in procurement, in particular in the agriculture component, rural roads, and port rehabilitation ( refurbishment of
   oil jetty was dropped after repeated procurement attempts).




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                 Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                 Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Substantial                        Substantial                         ---
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory                       Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Quality of ICR                                                               Substantial                         ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR draws the following main lessons from implementing this project.

   1 Government commitment for reforms secured early (that is, during the conceptualization of the project) may be critical for successful
   implementation of institutional reforms. In the case of this project, the reforms carried out in the port sector was successful in transforming
   the Monrovia to a landlord port model, however there is lack of commitment to reforms in the other sectors supported by the project.
   2 A higher standard of due diligence is required in the procurement of suppliers in weak operating environments to ensure selection of
   qualified suppliers who are most likely to perform satisfactorily. Under this project, it was assumed that the IITA, being present on the ground,
   could easily be sole sourced for the implementation of the agriculture component for Tree Crops; however this could not materialize and had
   to be abandoned and replaced by contracts with WFP and AFRICARE.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LR-Agric. & Infra. Dev. Proj. ERL (FY08)(P104716)



14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is concise and reasonably well written. The project however is confusing in its discussion on the results framework and it is not very
clear why many activities were dropped. The ICR could have been more candid in the assessment of the project outcomes in relation to the
original results framework, including in the description of issues related to the performance of the Bank and the Borrower.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
