Report No. 1773-CD
Chad                                                                              ç»?N
Second Livestock Project   i \LÉ
Appraisal Report
March 8, 1978
West Africa Department
Agriculture Project 1Il
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                       CFAF 245
CFAF 1,000                    US$4.08
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer   (km)            0.62 mile
1 square         2
kilometer (km )           0.39 square miles
1 hectare     (ha)            2.47 acres
1 kilogram    (kg)            2.2 pounds
1 metric ton         :        2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AP          Assocation of Pastoralists
APMU        World Bank Agricultural Projects Management Recruitment Unit
BDT         Banque de Developpement du Tchad (Chadian Development Bank)
EDF         European Development Fund
EC          European Community
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Fund for Aid and Cooperation)
IEMVT       Institut d'Elevage et de Medecine Veterinaire des Pays Tropicaux
(Tropical Livestock and Veterinary Institute)
PU          Pastoral Unit
Py          Project Year
RMWA        World Bank Regional Mission for West Af'rica
SERARHY     Service des amenagements ruraux d'hydraulique (Rural Water
Supply Agency)
SOTERA      Societe Tchadienne d'Exploitation des Ressources Animales
(Chadian Livestock Company)
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government            January 1 - December 31
Project               October 1 - September 30
IDA                   July 1    - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND  CONCLUSIONS  .................................. i - iv
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..........................................................                     1
II.   BACKGROUND  ...........................................................                      1
A.   General             ..............................           ................
B.   The Rural  Sector                ............................                          2
C.   The Livestock  Subsector  ....... . . . . . . . .               ............  .       3
D. Livestock Subsector                                      StrategyS...................   6
III.  THE  PROJECT  .. ...................               .. .......................                7
A.  Objectives and Summary Description ..............                                       7
B.   Detailed  Features  ...........                   .........................           8
Associations  of Pastoralists  .......................                             8
Services  Package  to Pastoralists  .                    ..................       9
Credit for Cattle Purchases ........................             .               10
Tlraining  .........................................................             10
Abattoir  Equipment  ............ ................ .....                         il
Tsetse Eradication  and  Surveys                      .....................      il
C.   Organization  and Management                      ..........................         12
Key Personnel  ......          .............          ...................        13
IV.   COST  ESTIMATES AND  FINANCIAL  ARRANGEMENTS  ........                         ........    14
A.   Project  Costs  ...... .............                    .....................        14
B.   Proposed  Financing  ........ . . .   ..................................             15
C.   Procurement  . .....................                   ................... .         16
D.   Disbursement  ....... .............                     .....................        16
E.   Accounts  and Audit  .....              ..................................           17
V.     PRODUCTION,  MARKETS  AND  PRICES,  AND  FINANCIAL RESULTS  ....                           18
A.   Production  ............................................                             18
B.   Markets  and  Prices                ...................................              19
C. Producer Incomes                                  ......... 20
D.   Financial  Implications  for Government  ..                        ..............    20
IV.   ECONOMIC  BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  .                      .....................       21
Risks  ....................................................                               22
VII.  AGREEMENTS  TO  BE REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  ...........                       ..    22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performa nce
of their oflicial duties. lts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
- 2-
ANNEXES
1. The Livestock Subsector
Table  1     Livestock P'opulation
Table  2     Livestock Production and Value, 1970-1975
Table  3     Livestock l'rade, 1970 and 1975
Table  4     Taxation
Table  5     Livestock Department Personnel
Table  6     Structure of Livestock Department, March 1977
Table  7     Livestock Department Field Stations
Table  8     Livestock Department Budget, 1963-1977
2. Pastoral Units and Livestock Services
Table  1     Delineation of Pastoral Units
Table  2     Vaccines, Drugs and Feed Supplements
Table  3     Field Stations and Vaccination Yards
Table  4     New Vehicles and Equipment and their Operation
Table  5     Operating Costs of Existing Vehicles
Table  6     Inventory of Watering Points - 1976
Table  7     Personnel, Materials and Operating Costs for
Watering Points
Table  8     Complementary Investment Requirements for Equipment -
Kanem Watering Points
Table  9     Complementary Investment Requirements for Equipment -
Chari Baguirmi Watering Points
Table 10     Complementary Investment Requirements for Equipment -
Batha Watering Points
Table 11     Aggregate Costs - Stock Watering Points
Table 12     Maintenance Fees - Stock Watering Points
3.   Credit
Table  1     Herd Reconstitution Model
Table  2     Pastoralists' Cash Flow from Herd Reconstitution
Table  3     Gross Benefits from 100 Herds and from Total Scheme
Table  4     Investment and Credit Costs
Table  5     Operating Costs and Receipts
4.   Training
5.   Abattoir Equipment
Table  1     Slaughterings at N'Djamena Abattoir
Table  2     Equipment Costs
Table  3     Abattoir Financial Statements
6.   Tsetse Eradication and Surveys
Table  1     Cotton Zone:  Tsetse Survey
Table  2     Cotton Zone:  Preparation of Eradication Program
Table  3     Middle Chari: Development Plan
Table  4     Middle Chari: Eradication Campaign



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
- 3-
ANNEXES
7.  Organization and Management and Reporting Re*uirements
Table  1     Management Costs
Table  2     Office Accommodation
Schedule 1   Qualifications and Responsibilities of Key Personnel
Chart 1      Proposed Organization and Management
Chart 2      Implementation Schedule
8. Project Costs and Financing
Table  1     Summary of Project Costs
Table  2     Project Costs by Types of Expenditure
Table  3     Project Financing Summary
Table  4     Project<Financing Details
Table  5     IDA Disbursement Categories
Table  6     IDA Disbursement Schedule
Table  7     Governmént Cash Flow
9. Project Benefits
Table  1     Cattle Herd Projection
Table  2     Camel Herd Development Model
Table  3     Herd Output without the Project
Table  4     Herd Output with the Project
Table  5     Change of Herd Value
10. Economic Analysis
Table  1     Economic Costs and Benefits of Livestock Services
Table  2     Economic Costs and Benefits of Associations of Pastoralists
MAP:  13103  Location of Project Activities






CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Background.  Livestock raising provides the main source of living
for a third of the rural population and accounts for 30% of merchandise
exports. About 80% of the national herd is raised in the sahelian zone where
pastoralists are not nomadic but practice seasonal migration. Their 1975 per
capita income was similar to that of small-scale farmers in the south of the
country at about $60, but the pastoralists have access to few public services
and they earn their living in a particularly arduous and ri-sky environment.
Until recently, Government's strategy to increase livestock production was the
provision of animal health services, stock watering points and marketing
facilities. Government now recognizes that this approach was inadequate and
should be complemented by increased animal and pastoral productivity. At
Government request, the proposed project was identified by RMWA in 1975 and
prepared by Bank Group staff and Government from studies financed by the EC,
by FAC and by the First Livestock Project (Credit 309-CD). This report is
based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Chad in February/
March 1977 and a follow up mission in June.
ii.       Project Objectives and Description.  The main objectives are:  (a)
to develop livestock production particularly in the sahelian zone; (b) to
bring pastoralists to accept responsibility for the environment through their
participation in the management and improvement of communal rangelands and
stock watering points; (c) to broaden the field of competence of the Livestock
Department, from provision of animal health services to provision of animal
and pastoral productivity services; and (d) to increase the scope for live-
stock production in the south of the country through tsetse eradication. The
project would include:
(a) delineation of pastoral units based on traditional land
use patterns, and formal recognition of about 75 associ-
ations of pastoralists based on traditional social groups
in the prefectures of Batha, Kanem and Chari Baguirmi;
(b) provision of a package of services to associations of
pastoralists, including animal health, supplies and
advice on animal husbandry techniques and on protection
of rangelands, and maintenance and selective extension
of stock watering points;
(c) the supply and delivery of vaccinations and drugs
throughout the project area, with the exception of
the cotton zone where vaccines would be supplied
but not delivered;
(d) provision of credit to those pastoralists who were
worst hit by the drought for the purchase of cattle
to rebuild their herds; and, on a pilot basis,



- ii -
provision of credit for the purchase of immature
cattle for steer fattening;
(e) management training for Livestock Department senior
staff at the Public- Administration College in N'Djamena;
(f) limited re-equipment of the Farcha Abattoir near
N'Djamena; vehicles and equipment for the Livestock
Department and for the Rural Water Supply Agency (SERARHY),
and buildings for the Livestock Department;
(g) a tsetse eradication program in the middle Chari Valley
and preparation of a land use plan for the area; and,
in the cotton zone, other tsetse eradication programs
or activities; and
(h) preparation of a follow-up project.
The project area would include the whole country with the exception of Assale
canton but activities would be concentrated in the western sahelian zone.
Parts of the project area are currently inaccessible to IDA staff and activ-
ities which require on-site supervision would not be extended beyond the
secure areas until their accessibility is assured. Vaccinations and drugs
would, however, be delivered in areas inaccessible to IDA staff since these
activities could be adequately supervised at main vaccination centers, all
of which are accessible. During negotiations, Government was informed that,
in accordance with normal Bank Group requirements, disbursements would be
conditional on security conditions permitting efficient project execution;
in addition, a specific remedy was provided in the Credit Agreement to permit
suspension of disbursements in the event that IDA staff did not have adequate
access to the project area for purposes of supervision.
iii.      Project Implementation.  The Project Manager would be the Director
of the Livestock Department who would be assisted by an internationally-
recruited Chief Operations Officer and a Chief Accountant. The Project
Manager would be directly responsible for execution of all project activities
concerning associations of pastoralists, animal health and husbandry, credit
and field staff training, and for supervision of activities concerning tsetse
work, and senior staff training. Through approval of proposed work programs
and withdrawal applications, he would have oversight responsibilities for
activities concerning stock watering points, abattoir equipment and follow-up
project preparation, for which day-to-day execution would be the responsi-
bility of the respective established agencies, SERARHY, the Farcha Abattoir
and the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Rural Development.
iv.       Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements.  Project costs for the
four-year period beginning October 1978 are estimated at US$16.1 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$9.7 million (60%). Costs exclude
direct taxes and duties from which the project would be exempted. It is
proposed that an IDA credit of US$11.5 million be made to Government on



- iii -
standard terms covering 72% of project costs, comprising 69% of foreign ex-
change costs estimated at US$6.7 million and 75% of local costs estimated at
US$4.8 million. The European Development Fund (EDF) would contribute US$3.4
million, or 21% of project costs as a grant to be disbursed parallel to the
IDA credit. The remaining 7% of project costs (US$1.2 million) would be
contributed by beneficiaries, mainly for drugs, feed supplements and stock
watering points. Government would continue to finance the costs of local
Livestock Department staff working under the project (US$0.5 million per
year) but these are not included in project costs. The IDA credit would be
channelled through a project account to be opened at the Chadian Development
Bank. Since Chad is unable to prefinance project expenditures, IDA would
finance a revolving fund of US$500,000 through the project account.
v.        Procurement.  Procurement of civil works (estimated cost US$1.1
million), vehicles and equipment (estimated cost US$1.7 million) and supplies,
namely drugs and materials for wells (estimated cost US$1.6 million), would be
through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines in
the case of contracts over US$50,000. In the case of contracts of US$50,000
or less but more than US$10,000, procurement would be through competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA. For contracts
of US$10,000 or less, direct competitive purchasing would be employed.
Vaccines (estimated cost US$1.5 million) would be procured from the Farcha
Laboratory and feed supplements (estimated cost US$0.5 million) from the
Livestock Production Improvement Center; both the Laboratory and the Center
are non-profit bodies in N'Djamena, with proven records of quality products
at prices substantially below those of imported commercial supplies. Well
maintenance and construction (estimated cost US$1.6 million) would be under-
taken by SERARHY under force account, since there is insufficient competition
among local contractors and insufficient interest from foreign firms in small
contracts for dispersed works. Renovation of abattoir equipment (estimated
cost US$80,000) would be by force account using replacement parts compatible
with the existing installation to be procured under procedures acceptable
to IDA. The services of internationally-recruited staff and of consultants
(estimated cost US$1.3 million) would be obtained following procedures
acceptable to IDA.
vi.       Disbursement.  Each of the main project activities would constitute
a disbursement category. Disbursements on livestock services would be US$4.2
million; on drugs and feed concentrates US$0.6 million; on mineral licks
US$0.4 million; on stock watering points US$1.9 million; on credit US$1.0 mil-
lion; on abattoir equipment US$130,000; and on organization and management
US$1.3 million. Additional categories would provide for a revolving fund
of US$500,000, and an unallocated amount of US$1.57 million. Disbursements
would be fully documented: disbursement against staff and operating costs
would, however, be made against certificates of expenditure which would not
necessarily be submitted for review but would be retained by the borrower
and be made available for inspection by IDA supervision missions.
vii.      Benefits and Justification.  Income generated by the main project
component - livestock services - which accounts for 70% of project costs,



- iv -
would accrue to 100,000 families, or over 1 million people, at an aggregate
cost of US$11.3 million or about US$10 per beneficiary. Incremental incomes
in PY10, valued at 1977 prices, would range from CFAF 65,000 (US$260) for
the 25,000 families participating fully in the project and paying well main-
tenance fees, to CFAF 35,000 (US$140) for 10,000 families not paying well
fees, and CFAF 30,000 (US$120) for the 65,000 families receiving only vac-
cines and drug supplies.
viii.     The economie rate of return of the livestock services component
would exceed 100% over 20 years and the benefit:cost ratio, at a 15% dis-
count rate over 20 years, would be 3.8:1. Such high returns are a common
feature of livestock projects that include a significant vaccination compo-
nent; the latter generates substantial and rapid benefits and net benefits
would be positive in all but the first year of the project. If the gross
value of total herd output is expressed as an annual return on the capital
value of the whole herd, this return would increase from 15.4% before the
project to 18.5% in PY10. The incremental economic rate of return to the
non-vaccination components of livestock services, which constitute about
40% of project base costs, would be about 35% over 20 years. This return
is quite sensitive: either a 30% reduction in benefits or a two-year lag in
the full benefit stream would reduce the return to 19%.
ix.       Risks.  There are areas in Chad which are intermittently occupied by
rebels and which are therefore considered restricted areas. While project
activities which require on-site supervision would not be extended beyond
the secure areas until their ac:cessibility is assured, vaccinations and drugs
would be delivered in areas inaccessible to IDA staff since such activities
could be adequately supervised at main vaccination centers, all of which are
accessible. A second risk is that Government may be unable to assure suffi-
cient recurrent cost financing after project completion; this is a familiar
risk for projects in Chad but this project allows for periodic review of the
scope for new and potentially large cost recoveries through vaccination fees.
A third risk is that, whereas sufficient safeguards have been provided to
ensure that credits for herd reconstitution would be made to deserving cases,
the feasibility of obtaining the required guarantees and loan repayments has
not yet been put to the test; the planned gradual implementation of this
component would limit the risk. Finally, there is a risk that despite some
safeguards, the constitution oiE associations of pastoralists would proceed
more slowly than envisaged; even with benefits lagged by two years, however,
the economic rate of return would still be acceptable (para viii).
x.        Recommendation.  With the assurances and conditions listed in
Chapter VII, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$11.5 million.



CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Chad has asked for IDA assistance to help develop
livestock production through (a) provision of a package of improved services
to organized pastoral groups mainly in the sahelian zone, and (b) specific
activities, namely tsetse eradication and surveys and abattoir equipment.
The project was identified by RMWA in 1975 and prepared by Bank Group staff
and Government from studies financed by the EEC, by FAC, and by the First
Livestock Project.
1.02      Previous IDA credits for agriculture have been made as follows:
(i) the Livestock Development Project (Credit 309-CD, US$2.2 million) in
1972); (ii) the Drought Relief Project (Credit 445-CD, US$2.0 million) in
1973; (iii) the Sategui-Deressia Irrigation Project (Credit 489-CD, US$7.5
million) in 1974, which was followed by a supplementary credit of US$8.0
million in October 1976; (iv) the Lake Chad Polders Project (Credit 592-CD,
US$5.0 million) in 1975; and (v) the Rural Fund Project (Credit 664-CD,
US$12.0 million) in 1976. All these projects are progressing satisfactorily,
whilst a sixth, the Sahelian Zone Project (Credit 739-CD, US$1.9 million) has
not yet become effective.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission com-
prising Messrs. D. Steeds, K. Meyn, D. Notley and E. Sinodinos, which visited
Chad in February/March 1977, and a two-man follow-up mission in June.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Chad has an area of 1.3 million km2 and is sparsely populated with
only four million people, of whom 3.5 million live in rural areas. About
half the rural population lives in the southwest or cotton zone, defined as
the five prefectures generally south of the 1,000 mm isohyet, which includes
only 10% of the country's area, and where smallholders cultivate cereals,
legumes and cotton under adequate and reliable rainfall conditions. Further
north, as rainfall declines and becomes more variable, rainfed cropping
becomes increasingly precarious and livestock production increasingly impor-
tant. This area is best considered as two zones - the transitional and the
sahelian - divided by the 600 mm isohyet, with rural populations of 0.6
million and 1.2 million respectively. In the sahelian zone, livestock,
despite low productivity, is the main source of subsistence and cash.



-2-
2.02      Chad is among the world's poorest countries; GNP is about US$120
per capita; incomes in rural areas are about US$60 per capita. In general,
development is hampered by hostile natural conditions, poor infrastructure
and a bulk freight rate of CFAF 34,000 (US$140)/ton from ocean port. In
recent years, internal rebellion and the worst drought in half a century
have put additional strain on Chad's meager financial resources.  Chad's
current budget has shown rising deficits since the early 1970s and, as a
result, Chad was neither able to contribute to new investments nor to cover
all of its existing recurrent costs, budgetary provision for some of which,
notably maintenance, has become increasingly deficient. Efforts are being
made, however, to put Chad's financial house in order and assuming that they
will continue, a balanced budget by 1982 and some modest current surplus in
the mid-eighties appear possible in the judgment of the recent economic
mission (Report No. 1340-CD). The discovery of substantial oil deposits,
increased exploration, and prospects of exploitation brighten the hitherto
gloomy picture. Until the public finance situation improves, however, ex-
ternal assistance will continue to be called upon to finance recurrent ex-
penditures, particularly maintenance. Since such assistance may not always
be available, projects with low recurrent costs after completion or a quick
pay-off merit high priority.
B. The Rural Sector
2.03      The rural sector contributes about 55% to GDP and about 90% to
exports, of which cotton, livestock and animal products, and fish are the main
commodities. Chad is normally self-sufficient in cereals and leguminous crops;
the only agricultural products imported in any volume in 'normal' years are
wheat (12,000 tons/year) and sugar (20,000 tons/year). Despite the country's
handicaps and problems, two substantial changes in production techniques
have recently taken place: the application of fertilizer and insecticide to
cotton, and the use of work oxen, have both more than doubled between 1973/74
and 1976/77 after a decade of slow albeit sustained growth. Chad is now the
leading cotton exporter in West Africa and has 135,000 work oxen. While
these changes have taken place in the cotton zone, there have been no signifi-
cant changes in production techniques either for livestock or for crops in the
sahelian zone; indeed there has been little official effort to promote or even
to research possible changes until quite recently. The past neglect of the
sahelian zone affords an opportunity in that, although the absolute production
can never be great, relative increases can be substantial and sustainable.
Under the Sahelian Zone Project (Credit 739-CD) attention will be given both
to crop production, and to the continuation of existing livestock vaccination
and health services pending the more wide-ranging approach of this proposed
Second Livestock Project.



- 3 -
C. The Livestock Subsector (Annex 1)
2.04      Significance:  Livestock raising is a major economic activity,
providing a third of the rural population with its main source of living
and accounting for 25-30% of merchandise exports. Politically, the live-
stock subsector is even more important, since one of the main causes of
the present unrest in the country has been the relative past neglect
s~f the economic well-being of the pastoralists.
2.05      Productivity and Output:  In 1970 the livestock population was
about 4.5 million cattle, 5 million sheep and goats, 0.5 million camels and
0.5 million horses and donkeys. Total production of meat and offals was over
100,000 tons, with exports of 45,000 tons. The 1973 drought entailed losses
of about a third of the cattle and 10% of other stock; recent census data
indicate that the cattle population has since revived to nearly 4 million,
while the number of other stock has already reached pre-drought levels.
Given the post-drought preoccupation with herd rebuilding, the cattle offtake
rate fell from 11% to 8% and production of all meat and offals had fallen by
1975 to 70,000 tons and exports to 30,000 tons. Since meat prices have more
than doubled, the total value of livestock output was nonetheless higher in
1975 (CFAF 11.8 billion) than in 1970 (CFAF 8.6 billion).
2.06      Producton Systems and Income:  About 80% of Chadian cattle are
raised by the mainly Arabic-speaking, Islamic peoples of the the sahelian
zone where local social structures, although not uniform, have some impor-
tant common features. The typical extended family has about 12 members,
owning 30-40 cattle and 20-30 smallstock (sheep and goats); the family head
is the key decision-maker in matters of livestock management. A few hundred
extended families constitute a tightly-structured pastoral group which, tradi-
tionally, was the only entity able to undertake the construction of watering
points; this function re-inforced the group's role as the controller of land-
use patterns. The construction of new concrete-lined wells by various public
bodies over the last two decades has, although coincidentally, posed a chal-
lenge to the authority of traditional pastoral groups but they nonetheless
remain the key decision-making units in matters of watering and grazing
rights. The livestock producers are not nomadic but practice seasonal
migration, moving north behind the rains and south in the dry season, to
exploit flood recession pastures at Lakes Chad and Fitri or natural pastures
and crop residues further south. In 1975, gross annual income for the typi-
cal extended family was CFAF 176,000 (US$720) of which CFAF 103,000 (US$420)
came from livestock, with the rest from complementary cropping and fishing
activities. Pastoralists' per capita income was about $60, about equal to
that of small-scale farmers in the south of the country. In contrast to the
latter, however, pastoralists receive few public health and education benefits
and they earn their living in a particularly arduous and risky environment.
2.07      Marketing, Processing and Taxation:  Animals are marketed through
a traditional private system in which pastoralists sell stock either directly
or through 40 principal and secondary markets to large traders. All trans-
actions are in cash. Apart from exports of chilled meat by air, animals are



- 4 -
moved on the hoof to both domestic and foreign, mainly Nigerian, consumption
centers. Exports by air to the capital cities to the south, from the 20-year
old slaughterhouse at N'Djamena, reached 12,000 tons in 1971 but have since
declined to about 2,000 tons and market prospects, except for the luxury
trade, are not favorable. About 60% of cattle offtake but less than 10% of
smallstock offtake is exported. Domestic meat retailing is handled by small
private butchers. Government has attempted to collect livestock taxes by means
of head taxes, sales taxes and export duties; revenue peaked at CFAF 630 mil-
lion or 7% of government revenue in 1966. During and after the drought, the
head and sales taxes were abolished and total tax revenue, mainly from export
duties, had fallen in 1975 to CFAF 250 million or 2% of government revenue.
The export duty is 6.2% of FOB value for chilled meat and 14.7% of fixed
nominal values for categories of live animals; since the latter are now far
below market prices, the tax rate is in effect less than 5% of FOB values.
A livestock taxation study, financed under Credit 309-CD, recommended that
Government introduce fees for vaccinations. While Government agrees in prin-
ciple, it considers and IDA agrees that charges for vaccinations are not yet
practicable; for, until all pastoralists are aware of the benefits to be
obtained, the universal coverage required to protect against contagious
diseases and ultimately eradicate some of them would be jeopardized. The
taxation study made a second major recommendation, that Government should
work with rather than against private exporters of live animals. Government
has already acted on this recommendation and has formed a new Chadian Live-
stock Company (SOTERA) as a mixed enterprise, to which livestock traders
have subscribed over CFAF 60 million (US$250,000). The company will be
responsible for orderly live animal exports through a licence system and
will have a monopoly of exports of chilled meat and hides and skins. The
prohibition on live animal exports, introduced in mid-1975 but never fully
enforceable, was lifted in February 1977 and normal trade, policed by the
licence-holding exporters themselves, has now resumed. In projecting Gov-
ernment cash flows (Annex 8, Table 7) it has been assumed that under the
changed conditions, effective collection of export taxes on livestock will
increase from 50% to 75%.
2.08      Services.  Vaccination Campaigns are undertaken by the Livestock
Department of the Ministry of Rural Development. The Department has about
400 staff including 21 veterinarians and a field network of 72 veterinary
posts with resident staff. With assistance from EDF and USAID, the Depart-
ment undertook a rinderpest immunization campaign in the mid-sixties which
brought the disease under control and led to rapid herd growth until the
drought. Considerable efforts have also been made to combat the other main
diseases - pleuropneumonia, anthrax and blackquarter - but deaths of young
animals in particular remain high owing to inadequate operating funds. Be-
tween 1963 and 1977 budget allocations for operating costs have been reduced
from CFAF 20 million to CFAF 6 million and for vaccines from CFAF 15 million
to zero; since 1972, the latter have been financed exclusively, though irreg-
ularly, from foreign aid.  The provision of animal husbandry advice through
an Extension Service has received little attention, although feed supplements
are being distributed under a Swiss grant. The Livestock Department also
undertakes veterinary inspection of slaughterhouses.



- 5 -
2.09      Rural Water Supply is the responsibility of a specialized agency
(SERARHY) under the Rural Engineering Department, which constructs and main-
tains stock watering points throughout the country and village wells in most
areas. SERARHY is a well-managed organization that, with the help of tech-
nical assistance and foreign aid, has been able to establish five regional
bases that are working efficiently.
2.10      Other services to the livestock subsector include vaccine produc-
tion, disease diagnostics, and livestock research, all undertaken by the
Farcha Laboratory. Technical training takes place (a) at the Livestock
Technical College at N'Djamena which, in cooperation with the university,
gives a three-year course to technical officers of whom it has graduated
four per year over the last few years; (b) at the Livestock Assistants School
which gives courses of the same duration, and graduates about 25 livestock
assistants per year; (c) at foreign universities for doctorate studies - in
early 1977, 33 Chadians were abroad studying veterinary science.
2.11      The First Livestock Project (Credit 309-CD):  The project consisted
of open well construction and repairs and studies of the livestock subsector,
to be executed through an existing UNDP technical assistance project, which
were to lead to a national livestock plan. The project was directly concerned
with neither animal husbandry nor pastoralists.  The project had a long gesta
tion period beginning with a first appraisal mission in 1966. After two more
appraisals, the project was approved in February 1972 but disbursements did
not begin until mid-1974, after IDA had accepted 100% financing and creation
of a US$50,000 revolving fund to pre-finance project expenditures. The delay
was also due to uncertainties arising from the internal security situation,
to inefficient government procedures, and to late withdrawal of the successfu
bidder on a well contract.
2.12      The project is now 90% disbursed and the well construction and
repair works were satisfactorily completed in late 1976, although the volume
of work was reduced due to inflation, and to cost increases arising from the
lack of competition among the few civil works contractors in the country, and
the lack of interest of foreign firms in a US$1 million contract.  As approve
the project was to finance 38 new wells and 102 well repairs; as subsequently
revised, the project has financed 18 new wells and 20 major repairs or about
half the total volume of work that had been foreseen.  The project also fi-
nanced the construction, equipment and initial operation of two SERARHY well
maintenance units in order to provide the capability to undertake works on for e
account; these units are now operating satisfactorily. It is as yet too early
to assess the livestock production effects of the well construction and repair
works but this question will be addressed in the project completion report.
The livestock sector studies were given low priority in the wake of the 1973
drought; staff were preoccupied with programming the abundant drought-relief
assistance that was then forthcoming. The UNDP technical assistance project
was terminated in late 1975 before most of the studies had even been started,
and before a national livestock development plan, even in outline, had begun
to be designed. The more important of the studies financed under 309-CD
were then commissioned and supervised by the Livestock Department and IDA,



- 6 -
and included the delineation of pastoral units and associations of pastoral-
ists in Batha prefecture, a review of livestock taxation policy (para. 2.07)
and a first attempt to identify health and husbandry activities for small-
stock. Parallel with these studies, FAC financed a study of herd reconsti-
tution in Kanem prefecture and other studies were financed as part of the
drought relief assistance of the EC, notably agrostological maps of the
sahelian zone and a livestock census. The proposed second livestock project
draws on all these studies.
D. Livestock Subsector Strategy
2.13      Government's main objective for the subsector has been and continues
to be increased livestock production, of cattle primarily for export, and
of smallstock primarily for domestic consumption. Until recently, the
strategy chosen to realize this objective was the provision of animal health
services, stock watering points and market facilities. These measures were
and remain necessary but have had some undesirable side effects. First,
they induced rapid herd growth resulting in high stocking rates and over-
grazing particularly around watering points which, in turn, caused high
cattle losses during the drought. Second, the maintenance of stock water-
ing points and provision of animal health services require recurrent financ-
ing which Government is unable to provide. Government recognizes these
deficiences and considers that, through the delineation of pastoral units
and recognition of associations of pastoralists, it will be possible (a) to
improve management of communally-owned pastures and to emphasize improved
animal husbandry rather than allowing for unrestrained herd growth as a means
to increase output, and (b) to allocate stock watering points to specific
associations of pastoralists, thus giving them the incentive necessary to
participate in maintenance and ease the pressure on the Government budget.
Government's current strategy is, therefore, a blend of its earlier approach
and the newly-recognized need to increase animal and pastoral productivity
through increased pastoralists' participation.
2.14      In the long term, the physical production potential of the sahelian
zone rangelands is not great and livestock development will increasingly
take place in the better-watered south of the country where potential feed
resources are more ample and conditions are favorable for mixed farming.
One of the main deterrents to such a development is the danger of disease
infestation, particularly trypanosomiasis. To facilitate livestock devel-
opment in the south, Government considers that the time has come to undertake
tsetse eradication.
2.15      These strategy considerations have determined the thrust of the
proposed project, in that (a) the proposed measures to increase animal and
pastoral productivity are linked to increased participation by pastoralists in
the management of the environment, and (b) in the south tsetse eradication
will pave the way to a subsequent expansion of the livestock industry.



III. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Summary Description
3.01      The main objectives are (a) to develop livestock production par-
ticularly in the sahelian zone; (b) to bring pastoralists to accept responsi-
bility for the environment through their participation in the management and
improvement of communal rangelands and stock watering points; (c) to broaden
the field of competence of the Livestock Department, from provision of animal
health services to provision of animal and pastoral productivity services and
(d) to increase the scope for livestock production in the south of the country
through tsetse eradication.
3.02      The project would include:
(a) delineation of pastoral units (PU) based on traditional
land-use patterns, and recognition of about 75 associa-
tions of pastoralists (AP) based on traditional social
groups, in the prefectures of Batha, Kanem and Chari
Baguirmi;
(b) provision of a package of services to associations of
pastoralists-, including animal health, supplies and
advice on animal husbandry techniques and on protection
of rangelands, and maintenance and selective extension,
of stock watering points;
(c) the supply and delivery of vaccinations and drugs through-
out the project area, with the exception of the cotton
zone where vaccines would be supplied but not delivered;
(d) provision of credit to those pastoralists who were worst
hit by the drought for the purchase of cattle to rebuild
their herds; and, on a pilot basis, provision of credit
for the purchase of immature cattle for steer fattening;
(e) management training for Livestock Department senior staff
at the Public Administration College in N'Djamena;
(f) limited re-equipment of the Farcha Abattoir near N'Djamena;
vehicles and equipment for the Livestock Department and for
SERARHY, and buildings for the Livestock Department;
(g) a tsetse eradication program in the middle Chari valley
and preparation of land use plan for the area; and, in
the cotton zone, other tsetse eradication programs or
activities; and
(h)  preparation of a follow-up project.



- 8 -
The Livestock Department would be responsible for project implementation.
It would be directly responsible for execution of all project activities
except for tsetse work, and senior staff training, which would be executed
by contract and supervised by the Department, and for stock watering points,
abattoir equipment and follow-up project preparation which would be executed
by SERARHY, the Farcha Abattoir and the Planning Unit of the Ministry of
Road Development; in these three cases, the Department would approve proposed
work programs and withdrawal applications.
3.03      The project area (Map 13103) would include the whole country with
the exception of the Assale canLton. In the cotton zone, where the people are
farmers rather than pastoralists, and where livestock projects financed by
others are already underway (as in Assale canton), project activities would
be limited to the supply of vaccines and tsetse work. In that part of the
project area in which provision of the services package to associations of
pastoralists would be undertaken, some areas are currently inaccessible to
IDA staff; all activities which require on-site supervision, however, would
not be extended beyond the secure areas until their accessibility is assured.
Vaccinations and drugs would be delivered in areas inaccessible to IDA staff
since such activities could be adequately supervised at main vaccination
centers, all of which are accessible. During negotiations, Government was
informed that, in accordance wLth normal Bank Group requirements, disburse-
ments would be conditional on security conditions permitting efficient
project execution; in addition, a specific remedy was provided in the Credit
Agreement to permit suspension of disbursements in the event that IDA staff
did not have adequate access to the project area for proposes of supervision.
B. Detailed Features
Associations of Pastoralists (Annex 2)
3.04      As described in para. 2.06, the traditional pastoral groups are
the key authorities in matters of watering and grazing rights. The project
would build on these traditional structures through the establishment of
formal associations of pastoralists. This would entail two steps: the
geographic delineation of pastoral units based on traditional land-use pat-
terns and formal recognition of their boundaries, and the grouping of pas-
toralists in such units into one or more associations with specific rights
and obligations.
3.05      Pastoral units would be delineated by mapping the rangeland and
identifying those areas traditionally exploited by socially homogeneous
groups.  It would entail a full allocation of dry season and wet season
grazing grounds, as well as transhumance corridors and some northern wet
season areas common to several units. The delineation method has been ade-
quately tested by a pilot study financed under the first Livestock Project
(309-CD) which also revealed t:hat pastoralists warmly welcomed the idea of
official recognition of boundaries of pastoral units. The delineation team



- 9 -
to be employed would work closely with representatives of government tech-
nical departments and traditional local authorities, and would prepare an
official minute and map of its work.
3.06      Following the above preparatory work, discussions would be held
with pastoralists with a view to forming an association. Each association
would receive grazing and watering rights in its area, but would undertake
in return to maintain watering points and to heed the advice of extension
workers aimed at better utilization of the range. On the basis of Livestock
Department recommendations, official recognition would be given to associa-
tions of pastoralists and their rights and obligations would be specified.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the appropriate regulations
would be issued by September 30, 1978 and that they would include a model
charter for an association of pastoralists and that that charter would be
subject to consultation with IDA. In addition Government prepared a first
draft of the charter which was reviewed at negotiations. Each association
would select and remunerate in cash or in kind, an agent from among its
members, who would be trained at the Massakory Herder Training Center and -
under the guidance of Livestock Department field staff - assist in the
diffusion of improved techniques, the sale of supplies, and collection of
dues.
Services Package to Pastoralists
3.07      A package of services (Annex 2) would be provided to associations of
pastoralists, consisting of animal health care, animal husbandry techniques,
measures to protect the rangelands, and maintenance and extension of stock
water points. It would comprise (a) vaccination of cattle against the major
contagious diseases; (b) field testing and if successful full-scale vaccina-
tion of smallstock against respiratory diseases; (c) treatments against worms
and ticks; (d) use of mineral licks and feed concentrates; (e) advice on and
materials for castration and proper branding; (f) advice on range management
measures such as limitation of herd numbers, creation of grazing reserves,
limitation of tree pruning and bush fires; and (g) maintenance and extension
of water points but only where warranted by land-use patterns and carrying
capacity.
3.08      Vaccines against the major contagious cattle diseases would be
supplied and distributed free of charge in order to facilitate the universal
coverage required to protect against such diseases and ultimately eradicate
some of them. All other animal health actions as well as the distribution
of drugs, mineral licks and feed supplements, with which pastoralists are not
sufficiently familiar, would be fully paid for by the pastoralists after an
initial two-year demonstration period, during which drugs and feed supplements
would be distributed free of charge and mineral licks at 20% of cost. An
assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations. Prices to be charged
for goods to be distributed against cash, as well as the scope for introduc-
ing payment for some vaccines, would be periodically reviewed by Government
and IDA during project implementation. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that (a) by March 31, 1979, legislation would be issued by Government
after consultation with IDA specifying the annual maintenance fee per well,



- 10 -
the method of fee collection and the manner in which SERARHY would use the
revenue, and that no new or replacement well would be constructed without
a lump sum contribution from beneficiaries of 10% of the average estimated
cost of such works, of which at least half payable before the start of such
works; (b) after completion oE field tests, full-scale vaccination of small-
stock would be subject to IDA approval.
Credit for Cattle Purchase (Annex 3)
3.09      Credit would be provided to purchase cattle for herdsmen that have
lost 75% or more of their herds as a result of the drought. In view of the
destitution of credit recipients and the long gestation period before herd
growth provides adequate cash income for a family, there is a strong case
for making grants rather than loans - but Government wishes to avoid setting
an undesirable precedent.  Loans for breeding females would therefore be
interest-free and repayable over five years after a five-year grace period.
Associated loans for immature males would be repayable upon sale of such
animals, within not more than two years after the loan was granted; maturi-
ties may however be extended one or more times on the same conditions, but
not beyond six years from the date on which the loan was granted, to allow
further purchases of immature males for short-term revenue. Credit to in-
dividual pastoralists would, moreover, not be given without a collective
guarantee from the respective association of pastoralists. This would include
a 10% cash deposit and a written commitment to cover all defaults. Loans
would also be made, on a pilot basis, for the purchase of immature cattle for
fattening on natural range before resale. These loans, also to be guaranteed
against default by the respective association, would not exceed 80% of the
purchase price, would be repaid upon resale of the animals (in about one year)
and would bear interest at not less than 15%. Assurances in respect of all
credit policies and procedures were obtained at negotiations.
Training (Annex 4)
3.10      The proposed project includes three major innovations in which
pastoralists and Livestock Department field staff would need formal train-
ing. First, the delineation of pastoral units and the constitution and role
of the associations must be understood by both pastoralists and Livestock
Department field staff.  Second, the Livestock Department field staff is not
familiar with animal husbandry and range management techniques, and requires
courses in this; and the associations' selected agents require training in the
same fields with emphasis on the tasks they could perform themselves. Third,
the proposed credit component requires training both for the Department field
staff and for the associations' agents.
3.11      Training would be provided using the facilities of the Herder
Training Center at Massakory, which would be fully staffed and equipped
under a USAID program, and where boarding facilities can accommodate 30
people. Allied to the formal training, the center's audio-visual mobile
units will be used to disseminate knowledge of key project activities to
pastoralists at large. Government and USAID have prepared final details for
the obligation of funds that have already been appropriated for the center,



- il -
and which are fully adequate to support the proposed training component;
the current status of the funding of the center was reviewed at negotiations.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that annual consultations would be
held between Government and IDA on project-related training programs to be
undertaken during the life of the project.
3.12      The Livestock Department has sufficient senior technically-quali-
lied national staff. Its effectiveness could, however, be increased by
complementing their professional qualifications by an intensive program of
participative seminars in the principles and practices of modern management
techniques. Such seminars, to be specifically designed for the functions of
the Livestock Department, would be run by the Public Administration College at
N'Djamena.
Abattoir Equipment (Annex 5)
3.13      The Farcha Abattoir and Cold Store, located on the outskirts of
N'Djamena, was established in 1958 as a public commercial body to provide
controlled hygienic slaughtering facilities for meat for N'Djamena and for
meat exports by air to African coastal markets. It was profitable until
1971 but subsequent performance has been poor due, mainly, to the abattoir's
entry, despite insufficient experience, into large-scale export trading
on its own account and the general decline in export margins after 1973.
Export trading by the abattoir has now ceased. Some limited re-equipment
is now required to ensure the continued operation of the abattoir both for
the N'Djamena market and to permit continued exports by private traders.
Four compressors need rebuilding, the main switchboard requires a complete
overhaul, and a new ice-making plant is warranted; the project would provide
the equipment required and installation would be undertaken by the abattoir's
own engineering section, which is fully competent to handle the work.
Tsetse Eradication and Surveys (Annex 6)
3.14      The first tsetse eradication campaign in the country was sucessfully
undertaken in 1973 and 1974 along the lower Chari between N'Djamena and Lake
Chad. The executing agency issued a completion report in 1975, outlining the
problems encountered, the technical results and detailed costs; this report
provides a sound basis for the preparation of similar eradication programs.
A nationwide tsetse survey had been undertaken in 1965; an updating survey was
undertaken in 1975 for the middle Chari valley between N'Djamena and Miltou.
The project would include (a) in the area between N'Djamena and Miltou, or the
middle Chari valley, a program of eradication of g. tachinoides and prepara-
tion of a land-use plan for the area, and (b) in the cotton zone, other tsetse
eradication programs or activities, including updating of the tsetse distribu-
tion map. Project activities in the cotton zone would be agreed upon defin-
itively between the EDF and Government.



- 12 -
C. Organization and Management (Annex 7)
3.15      The Project Manager would be the Director of the Livestock Depart-
ment who, because he would retain his non-project responsibilities, would be
assisted by a deputy, to be designated Chief Operations Officer. Since the
project would provide a flow of funds to the livestock sector considerably
in excess of previous financing,'and there is scope for cost savings in
the operations of the agencies involved, a Chief Accountant would also be
employed. Qualifications and responsibilities for both posts are at Annex 7,
Schedule 1. The Project Manager would be responsible for introducing, by
September 30, 1978, a monitoring and reporting system along the lines indi-
cated at Annex 7; an assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
A further assurance was obtained that Government would by the completion
date prepare a project completion report. For the monitoring function,
the recently-created monitoring unit in the Livestock Department would be
strengthened by a consultant statistician for two man-months per year.
3.16      The Project Manager would be directly responsible for execution of
all project activities concerning the constitution of associations of pastoral-
ists, animal health and husbandry, credit and field staff training. The first
two activities would be executed through the existing Livestock Department
regional structure and staff (Annex 1, Table 6). Each regional Livestock
Department head would be a full-time member of the pastoral unit delineation
team for his region. He would subsequently be responsible, through his subor-
dinate staff who would receive appropriate training, for promoting the con-
cept of, arranging official recognition for, and providing animal husbandry
inputs and services to, associations of pastoralists. For credit activities,
a new unit would be set up within the Livestock Department, to be managed by
a credit officer, who would be assisted by a credit assistant in each of the
three regions; in addition, Livestock Department field staff would, after
training, assist in the filing of credit applications, obtaining the collective
guarantees, and monitoring the care and use of animals acquired on credit.
Loan applications would be approved by the credit officer, regional Livestock
Department head, and Prefect.
3.17      The Project Manager would be responsible for supervision of those
activities to be carried out under contract, namely tsetse work, and senior
staff training.  He would have oversight responsibilities for activities
concerning stock watering points and abattoir equipment, to be exercised
through approval of proposed work programs and withdrawal applications.
Day-to-day execution of these project components would be the responsibility
of the respective agencies: SERARHY and the Farcha Abattoir and Cold Store.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SERARHY would submit, not
later than July 31 of each year, a detailed project-related work program
through the Project Manager to IDA for approval; the program would be based
on numbers and locations of duly constituted associations of pastoralists.
3.18      SERARHY's achievemernts to date have been realized in spite of two
severe but surmountable difficulties, namely its status as an administrative



- 13 -
agency which restricts the efficiency of its field operations, and the in-
adequate provision for recurrent cost financing. There is now a strong
case for changing SERARRY's atatus to that of a public body with managerial
and financial autonomy although a previous attempt, in 1965, to set up an
autonomous public body responsible for rural water supplies had been abandoned
by 1968. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would,
by December 31, 1978, undertake a review of SERARHY's status and then consult
with IDA in the light of the results of this review, on the possibility to
confer on it managerial and financial autonomy.
3.19      The Farcha Abattoir's recent poor financial performance was due
both to unprofitable export trading (para. 3.13) and to unduly high operat-
ing costs. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government
would (a) by March 31, 1979, introduce measures satisfactory to IDA designed
to improve the management of the Abattoir's operations and finances; these
measures would include operating no more cold storage or slaughter chain
capacity than needed at any one time, and (b) periodically review with IDA
the Abattoir's financial condition in order to assess the scope for estab-
lishing a sinking fund for future re-equipment. The financial measures, for
which specific reporting requirements are indicated at Annex 7, para. 21,
are specified at Annex 5, para. 3; they include provision that the project's
Chief Accountant attend in an advisory capacity those portions of the meetings
of the Abattoir's board of directors dealing with financial matters.
Key Personnel
3.20      Despite being well staffed with qualified national veterinarians
for whom management training is provided under the project (para. 3.12),
the Livestock Department cannot furnish all the key personnel required.
The following positions would be filled through international recruitment
in which APMU would assist: the Chief Operations Officer and the Chief
Accountant, each for four years; senior tsetse staff would also be recruited
internationally as part of the contract for execution of tsetse activities.
Consultants would be recruited, possibly from the the University of Chad,
otherwise internationally, for the delineation of pastoral units, for the
land-use plan for the middle Chari tsetse eradication area, and for prepara-
tion of a follow-up project. The project would provide, in sum, for 16 man-
years of technical assistance at an average cost of US$74,000 per man-year,
and for 66 man-months of consultant services at an average cost of US$7,000
per man-month. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the quali-
fications and experience, terms of reference and conditions of employment
of all internationally-recruited staff and of all consultants financed from
the IDA credit would be acceptable to IDA; in addition, appointment of the
Chief Operations Officer and the Chief Accountant would be a condition of
effectiveness.



- 14 -
IV.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.01                Total project costs for the four-year disbursement period, 1978/79-
1981/82, are estimated at CFAF 3,942 million (US$ 16.1 million) with a foreign
exchange component of CFAF 2,376 million (US$9.7 million) or 60%. Costs ex-
clude direct taxes and duties from which the project would be exempted.  Base
cost estimates reflect March 1978 prices. Physical contingencies include 10%
for most items, 15% for abattoir equipment and 20% for vaccines, drugs, feed
supplements and vehicle operating costs. This provision covers herd growth,
a possible expansion of the area in which mobile teams can operate, and
the possible introduction of new vaccines for smallstock. Expected price
increases are compounded at the following annual rates for both local and
foreign costs: civil works 9% to end-1979, 8% thereafter; all other items
7.5% to end-1979, 7% thereafter. Total expected price increases amount
to 19% of base costs plus physical contingencies. Costs are detailed in
Annexes 2-7, aggregated in Annex 8 and summarized below.
SUH&ARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Percentage      Foreigu
Prolect Component                     Local       Forel n       Total          Local    Foreign   Total          of Base Co3t  txhaope
------CFAF Million    ----                      USS   000---------              z
Pastoral Units and
Livestock Services
Delineation of Pastoral Unité              20.7          31.0          51.7         :84         127          211            2            60
Vaccines, Drugs & Feed
Supplements                              277.8         353.4         631.2      1,134       1,442        2,576           21            56
Field Stations and Vaccination
Yards                                     76.6          88.6         167.2         321         361         682             6           53
Vehicles and Equipment
and their Oneration                       93.7         275.5         369.2         382      1,125        1,507           12            75
Stock Watering Points                     231.2         319.3         550.5         944      1,303        2,247           19            58
Subtotal                         702.0       1,067 8       1,769.8       2,865       4358         7,223           60            60
Credit                                       197.7          27.0         224.7         807         110          917            8            12
Abattoir Equipeent                            -             27.9          27.9         -           114          114            1          100
Tsetse Survevs and Eradication
Cotton Zone: Tsetse Survey                 33.3          81.5         114.8        136         333          469            4            71
Cotton Zone: Preparation of
Eradication Program          5.7         14.1          19.8          23          58           81            1            71
'Middle Chari; Development Program    10.5              29.7          40.2          43         121          164            1           74
Middle Chari. Tsetse Eradication         125.3          306.8         432.1        512       1,251        1,763           15            71
subtotal                         174.8         432.1         606.9         714      1.763        2.477            21           71
Organization and Management
Management Costs                          88.3         187.6         275.9         360         766       1,126             9           f8
Office Accomodation                        8.4          14.4          22.8          34          59           93            1           63
Subtotal                           96.7         202.0         298.7         394         825       1,21            10            68
Base- Cost Estinate                       1,171.2       1,756.8       2,928.0       4,780       7,170      11,950           100            60
Physical Contingencies                       163.3         225.6         388.9         667        921        1,588           13            58
Expected Price Increases                     250.1         375.2         625.3      1,021       1,531        2,552           21            60
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        1 584.6        2 357 6      3,942.2       6,468       9,622       16,090          134            60



- 15 -
B. Proposed Financing
4.02      It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$11.5 million (CFAF 2,820
million) be made to Government on standard terms to finance 72% of total
project costs. The credit would cover 69% of foreign exchange costs esti-
mated at US$6.7 million (CFAF 1,633 million) and 75% of local costs estimated
at US$4.8 million (CFAF 1,187 million). The European Development Fund (EDF)
would contribute US$3.4 million (CFAF 840 million) or 21% of total project
costs as a grant to be disbursed on a parallel basis for tsetse work, and the
project monitoring unit. The IDA credit and the EDF grant would together
finance 93% of total project costs. The Herder Training Center at Massakory
will be financed by USAID under an existing program and the costs involved are
not included in the above cost estimates. The remaining project costs (CFAF
280 million) or 7% of total, would be contributed by beneficiaries covering
the cost of drugs, feed supplements and stock watering points. In addition,
Government would continue to finance the costs of local Livestock Department
staff working under the project, about CFAF 120 million (US$0.5 million) per
year, but these are not included in project costs.
4.03      The IDA credit would be channelled through an account to be opened
at the Chadian Development Bank (BDT); the opening of this account would be
a condition of effectiveness.
4.04      The financing plan is detailed in Annex 8 and summarized below:
Total           Beneficiaries      EDF        IDA
----------------- CFAF million -------
Pastoral Units and
Livestock Services          2,019               280            -        1,739
Credit                          247                -             -          247
Abattoir Equipment               32                -             -           32
Tsetse Eradication
and Surveys                   664                -            664
Organization and
Management                    355                -             36        319
Revolving Fund                  123                -             -          123
Unallocated                     502                -            140         362
Total                         3,942               280           840      2.822
US$ million                      16.1               1.2           3.4        11.5
Percentage                     100%                7%           21%       72%



- 16 -
4.05      Experience with previous projects in Chad indicates that cash
availability is a major factor Limiting the pace of project implementation
and consequently the rate of IDA credit disbursements. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that, immediately after credit effectiveness, an initial
disbursement of US$500,000 would be made into the project account at BDT which
would serve as a revolving fund to finance project expenditures. This pro-
cedure would be similar to that adopted for the Rural Fund Project (Credit
664-CD) and the Sahelian Zone Project (Credit 739-CD). IDA would replenish
the fund on receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures were eligible
for financing from the proceeds of the credit. Should, however, any dis-
bursement from the project account fail to meet this condition, Government
would be under the obligation to deposit the corresponding amount into that
account. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
C. Procurement
4.06      Procurement of civil works (estimated cost US$1.1 million), vehicles
and equipment (estimated cost US$1.7 million) and supplies, namely drugs and
materials for wells (estimated cost US$1.6 million), would be through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines in the case of
contracts over US$50,000. In the case of contracts of US$50,000 or less but
more than $10,000, procurement would be through competitive bidding in accord-
ance with local procedures acceptable to IDA. For contracts of US$10,000 or
less, direct competitive purchasing would be employed. Vaccines (estimated
cost US$1.5 million) would be procured from the Farcha Laboratory and feed
supplements (estimated cost US$0.5 million) from the Livestock Production
Improvement Center; both the Laboratory and the Center are non-profit bodies
in N'Djamena, with proven records of quality products at prices substantially
below those of imported commercial supplies. Well maintenance and construc-
tion (estimated cost US$1.6 million net of vehicles, equipment and materials,
to be procured as indicated above) would be undertaken by SERARHY under force
account, since there is insufficient competition among local contractors and
insufficient interest from foreign firms in small contracts for dispersed
works. Renovation of abattoir equipment (estimated cost $80,000) would be by
force account using replacement parts compatible with the existing installa-
tion to be procured under procedures acceptable to IDA. The services of
internationally-recruited staff and consultants (estimated cost US$1.3 mil-
lion) would be obtained following procedures acceptable to IDA.
D.. Disbursement
4.07      The IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
Category I:    100% of expenditures for (i) delineation of pas-
toral units, (ii) vaccines, field tests and
ancillary staff, (iii) field stations and vaccina-
tion yards and (iv) vehicles and equipment and
their operation: US$4.2 million;



- 17 -
Category II:   100% of expenditures on drugs and feed concen-
trates in PY1 and PY2 and for an initial stock
for sales to pastoralists in PY3: US$0.6 million;
Category III: 80% of expenditures on mineral licks in PY1 and
PY2 and 100% of expenditures for an initial stock
for sales to pastoralists in PY3: US$0.4 million;
Category IV:   100% of investment and operating costs of the
SERARHY bases in Batha, Chari Baguirmi and Kanem
in PY1 and PY2; 80% of such expenditures in PY3
and PY4: US$1.9 million;
Category V:    100% of amounts disbursed on loans for cattle:
US$0.9 million;
Category VI:   100% of total expenditures on credit administra-
tion costs: US$0.1 million;
Category VII: 100% of total expenditures on abattoir equipment:
US$130,000;
Category VIII: 100% of total expenditures on organization and
management other than the monitoring unit: US$1.3
million.
Additional categories would provide for a revolving fund of US$500,000 and an
unallocated amount of US$1.47 million. Estimated quarterly disbursements are
at Annex 8, Table 6.
4.08      Disbursements would be fully documented; disbursement against
staff and operating costs would, however, be made against certificates of
expenditure, the documentation for which would not necessarily be submitted
for review, but would be retained by the borrower and be made available for
inspection by IDA supervision missions.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.09      Project Accounts.  The Project Chief Accountant would set up an
accounting system which would reflect, in accordance with consistently main-
tained and sound practices, a true and fair view of the total project, includ-
ing records of cash balances, stocks held, fixed assets, credit granted, and
the operating expenses of vehicles and equipment, with the sole exception that
records relative to the project components to be executed by SERARHY and the
Farcha Abattoir would be confined to the disbursement situation.
4.10      SERARHY Accounts.  SERARHY would continue to maintain an accounting
system which would reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained and



- 18 -
sound practices, its receipts, disbursements, cash balances and stocks, and
operating expenses and its identification of claims made upon varous aid
agencies and in due course, pastoralists. SERARHY would submit certified
statements of expenditures relating to the stock watering points component of
the project to the Project Manager who would have the responsibility to check
that claims were fully in accord with the terms of the credit and would have
authority to reject claims with which he was not satisfied.
4.11      Farcha Abattoir Accounts.  The Abattoir would set up an accounting
system which would reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained and
sound practices, a true and fair view of its position. To this end, assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that Government would ensure that the
Abattoir implement a series of practices, detailed at Annex 5, para. 3,
pertaining to its accounts, notably revised provision for doubtful debts
and depreciation. The Abattoir would submit import documentation for equip-
ment purchases to the Project Manager who would exercise the same responsi-
bilities as described at para. 4.10.
4.12      Audit.  The project accounts would be audited annually; the auditors
would also review the proposed accounting and internal control systems at the
start of disbursements. The credit would provide for the fees and expenses
of the independent auditors, and travel expenses of the Government Financial
Controller. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that: (a) the project accounts and the abattoir accounts would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) SERARHY's accounts would be
audited by the Government Financial Controller and may, in addition, be
audited by the independent auditors to the extent they judge necessary for
the completion of their audit of the project accounts, and for their satis-
fying themselves as to the correctness of reimbursement claims made, and to
the end-use of the funds; (c) the reports of both the independent auditors
and the Government Financial Controller would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the close of each project financial year, or the SERARHY or Farcha
Abattoir financial year as the case may be; (d) the report of the auditors
would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
5.01      The main output would be increased production of meat mainly from
cattle through an increase in the offtake rate from 10.5% to 13.4%; this
would result from changes in calving, mortality and culling coefficients,
specified at Annex 9, Table 1, and induced by all the project activities
pertaining to animal productivity. Carcass weights are assumed to remain
unchanged at 130 kg/head. It is also assumed for the production estimates
that, of the 75 associations to be constituted, only about 55 would accept



- 19 -
to pay well maintenance fees during the project life and thereby receive the
full package of services. The production effect in PYIO of the main project
component - livestock services - is illustrated in the following table, which
is derived from Annex 9:
Cattle    Smallstock      Camels      Total
Volume of meat and offals ('000 tons)
1.  PYO (before project)                66.9        13.7           4.2         84.8
2.  PY10 with project                  101.5        18.6           6.1        126.2
3.  PYIO without project                73.9        17.4           4.7         96.0
Incremental production (2-3)            27.6         1.2           1.4         30.2
Value of incremental production
(CFAF billion,. 1977 terms)              3.7         0.3           0.2          4.2
About 40% of incremental production would be obtain in the 55 associations
that are expected to be fully operational; these associations include about
25% of the livestock population in the project area.
B. Markets and Prices
5.02      Increased output of milk, and of smallstock and camels, would be
consumed mainly by the producers themselves. By contrast, about 60% of in-
creased cattle production or 20,000 tons meat and offal equivalent would be
exported, mainly on the hoof to Nigeria, where imports are about 60,000 tons
equivalent and satisfy 30% of domestic demand. The remaining and poorer
quality increased cattle production would be bound for the N'Djamena market
where, even in PYIO, per capita beef consumption would thereby be about 40
kg/year, or about the level that it was in 1970. Given these favorable and
close outlets, and Government's new and encouraging approach to livestock
marketing (para. 2.07), no marketing problem is foreseen. Although Bank
staff price forecasts for exports of Argentinian beef to the EEC through
1985 are for a real increase over 1977 levels, it is assumed for purposes
of valuation of project output that real border prices ex-Chad will remain
constant. As drought-hit herds are being reconstitued throughout the Sahel,
it is possible that West African beef prices would once again be lower than
world prices, as was the case up to the drought; to offset this possibility,
the assumption of constant real prices has been made.



- 20 -
C. Producer Incomes
5.03      Incomes in 1977 prices accruing to typical herd-owning extended
families would increase, without the project, from CFAF 160,000 (US$650) in
PYO to CFAF 185,000 (US$760) in PY10. Incomes with the project would differ
for three sets of pastoralists: (i) those who are members of associations
that pay well maintenance fees, for whom income in PY10 would be CFAF 250,000
(US$1,020); (ii) those who are members of associations that do not pay fees
for whom income in PY10 would be CFAF 220,000 (US$900) and (iii) those who
are not members of associations and receive only vaccinations and some drug
supplies; their income in PY10 would be CFAF 215,000 (US$880). Project-
generated incremental incomes would be CFAF 65,000 (US$260) for the 25,000
families in set (i), CFAF 35,000 (US$140) for the 10,000 families in set (ii)
and CFAF 30,000 (US$120) for the 65,000 families in set (iii). While there
are no data on the dispersion of herd ownership, indications are that there
are few large herd owners and that the typical herd owned by an extended
family of 12 members is, indeed, fairly representative.
D. Financial Implications for Government
5.04      The recurrent costs to be borne by Government after project comple-
tion would amount to CFAF 360 million (US$1.5 million) per year in constant
prices, for vaccines, operation and replacement of Livestock Department
vehicles and equipment, and well maintenance (Annex 8, Table 7). This would
be additional to the cost of Livestock Department staff in the project area
amounting to CFAF 120 million (US$0.5 million) per year, which Government
is presently financing and would continue to finance during the project.
Government revenue from the livestock sector net of collection costs was only
CFAF 160 million (US$0.7 milion) in 1975 (Annex 1, Table 4). Of this amount
CFAF 120 million derived from export taxes, or 50% of the theoretical yield.
Government is now keen to increase tax revenue from the livestock sector and
has already taken one measure, namely formal cooperation through SOTERA
(para. 2.07) with the main exporters of live animals to Nigeria, that will
generate increased export tax revenue. Even at present tariff rates of less
than 5% on FOB, the theoretical yield from export taxes on live animals is
about CFAF 400 million (US$1.6 million). At Annex 8, Table 7, it has been
assumed that the collection of export taxes will continue to be only 50%
effective during the first three years of the project, thereafter rising to
75% effectiveness. The continuation of project activities would result in an
annual net outflow of about CFAF 200 million (US$0.8 million) but there would
by then be scope for increasing revenue from charges for some vaccinations
and increased tax rates. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
Government would provide for the financing of all continuing costs after
project completion.



- 21 -
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The main project component would be livestock services which,
together with organization and management, accounts for 70% of project base
cost. About 100,000 herd-owning extended families, or over 1 million people,
would benefit from livestock services, of which the aggregate cost would be
US$11.3 million, or about US$10 per beneficiary. The economic rate of return
would exceed 100% over 20 years and the benefit:cost ratio, at a 15% dis-
count rate over 20 years, would be 3.8:1 (Annex 10). Such high returns are
a common feature of livestock projects that include a significant vaccina-
tion component; the latter generates substantial and rapid benefits and net
benefits would be positive in all but the first year of this project. If
the gross value of total herd output is expressed as an annual return on
the capital value of the whole herd (Annex 9), this return would increase
from 15.4% before the project to 18.5% in PYIO. The incremental economic
rate of return to the non-vaccination components, which are broadly equiva-
lent to associations of pastoralists and constitute about 40% of project
base costs, would be about 35% over 20 years. This return is quite sensi-
tive: either a 30% reduction in benefits or a two-year lag in the full
benefit stream would reduce the return to 19%.
6.02      The credit component would have two main benefits.  The herd re-
constitution program, based on an ongoing pilot operation, would redistrib-
ute capital to about 650 pastoral families now living on famine relief and
relatives; they would thereby acquire the means to become financially self-
supporting. The steer fattening loans, a strictly pilot exercise, would
constitute the first attempt to introduce the notion of commercial livestock
credit into the pastoral economy; if successful, considerable expansion
would be warranted.
6.03      The tsetse component would involve two subcomponents.  In the middle
Chari valley, tsetse eradication and a land-use plan would be undertaken.
From a model prepared prior to a similar eradication exercise in neighboring
Cameroon, a satisfactory return can be expected provided the land freed from
tsetse is subsequently put to productive use. In the cotton zone, project
activities are to be agreed upon definitively between the EDF and Government
and may be limited to surveys, with no direct benefits during the project
life. If, however, the surveys lead to the subsequent eradication of tsetse,
together with allied efforts in neighboring countries, they would have opened
the way for a substantial increase in livestock production in far less
ecologically fragile conditions than the sahelian zone.
6.04      Successful project implementation would entail three desirable,
albeit qualitative, effects. First, associations of pastoralists would
become more responsible for the management of their environment, including
stock watering points. Second, Livestock Department staff would be better
equipped to manage and to execute not only animal health programs but also
animal and pastoral productivity programs. Third, to the extent that the



- 22 -
current security situation is the outcome of a relative lack of services
to the livestock sector, the project would contribute to a lessening of
tensions.
Risks
6.05      There are areas in Chad which are intermittently occupied by rebels
and which are therefore considered restricted areas. While project activities
which require on-site supervision would not be extended beyond the secure
areas until their accessibility is assured, vaccinations and drugs would be
delivered in areas inaccessible to IDA staff since such activities could be
adequately supervised at main vaccination centers, all of which are accessi-
ble. A second risk is that Government may be unable to assure sufficient
recurrent cost financing after project completion.  This is a familiar risk
for projects in Chad but, quite apart from the possibility of some modest
surplus in Government's current budget in the mid-eighties (para. 2.02), this
project allows for periodic review of the scope for new and potentially
large cost recoveries through vaccination fees. A third risk is that whereas
sufficient safeguards have been provided, based on the pilot operation, to
ensure that the credits for herd reconstitution would be made to deserving
cases, the feasibility of obtaining the required guarantees and loan repay-
ments has not yet been put the test; the planned gradual implementation of
this component would limit the risk. Finally, there is a risk that the
constitution of associations of pastoralists would proceed more slowly than
envisaged. Some safeguards are provided, however, in the field work already
done on pastoral units and the good reception of the concept by pastoralists,
Government's wholehearted support, and the good likelihood of the availability
of the same personnel for the delineation team who undertook the initial
field work; furthermore, even with benefits lagged by two years, the eco-
nomic rate of return would still be acceptable (para. 6.01).
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that:
(i) by September 30, 1978, appropriate regulations
would be issued concerning associations of pas-
toralists and Government would consult with IDA
on the model charter for such associations (para
3.06);
(ii) by March 31, 1979, and after consultation with
IDA, legislation would be issued concerning well
maintenance fees and well construction cost
contributions (para. 3.08);
(iii) full-scale vaccination of smallstock would be
subject to IDA approval (para. 3.08);



- 23 -
(iv)  annual consultations would be held DetWtu G
ment and IDA on all project-related zrairicg Lç
be undertaken (para. 3.11);
(v)  the Project Manager would introduce, by
September 30, 1978 and in agreement with IDA, a
reporting and monitoring system along the lines
indicated at Annex 7 (para. 3.15);
(vi)  Government would by the closing date prepare a
project completion report (para. 3.15);
(vii)  SERARHY would submit not later than July 31 of
each year a detailed project-related work pro-
gram through the Project Manager to IDA for
approval (para. 3.17);
(viii) Government would, by December 31, 1978, undertake
a review of SERARHY's status and consult with IDA
thereon (para. 3.18);
(ix)  Government would, by March 31, 1979, introduce
measures satisfactory to IDA designed to improve
the Abattoir's operations and finances, and
would periodically review with IDA the scope for
establishing a sinking fund (para. 3.19);
(x)  the qualifications and experience, terms of refer-
ence and conditions of employment of all interna-
tionally-recruited staff and of all consultants
financed from the IDA credit would be acceptable
to IDA (para. 3.20);
(xi)  should any disbursement from the project account
revolving fund be found to be ineligible for financ-
ing from the proceeds of the Credit, Government
would deposit the corresponding amount into that
account (para. 4.05);
(xii) project accounts, SERARRY accounts and Farcha
Abattoir accounts would be audited and submitted
to IDA as detailed at para. 4.12;
(xiii) Government would provide for the financing of
all continuing costs after project completion
(para. 5.04).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(i) the Chief Operations Officer and the Chief
Accountant had been appointed (para. 3.20);



- 24 -
(ii) a project account had been opened at the Chadian
Development Bank (para. 4.03).
7.03      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for a credit on standard terms of US$11.5 million equivalent to
the Government of Chad.



- 25 -
CHAD                                    ANNEX 1
Table 1
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
Livestock Population
Cattle      Sheep &      Camels      Horses       Donkeys
Goats
--------------------- ('000 head)---------------------
A. Project Area served by mobile teams
Batha (part of)'  1/                     510         310         40            8          19
Kanem                                    430         800         70           20          40
Lake                                     300         150           3          20          20
Chari Baguirmi (part of) 2/              300         400           3          10          25
Subtotal                       1,540       1,660        116           58         104
B.  Project Area served by Livestock posts and sectors
Batha (part of)  1/                      820         490         60           12          31
Chari Baguirmi (part of) 2/              160         210          -            5          13
Guera                                    150          80          -           10          10
Biltine                                  300         500         80           16          50
Ouaddai                                  350         200         35           12          30
BET                                       10          70         75            -           3
Salamat                                   90          70          -            3           7
Subtotal                        1,880       1,620        250           58         144
C.  Total Project Area                       3,420       3,280         366         116         248
D. Cotton Area
Mayo Kebi                                230         550          -           15          10
Logone Occidental                         25         100          -            3.5         -
Logone Oriental                           35         120          -            4.5         -
Tandjile                                  40          90          -            8           -
Moyen Chari                               70         130           -           2           1
Subtotal                          400         990           -          33          il
E. LCBC Area 3/
Chari Baguirmi (part of) 2/              140         190          1            5          12
F.  Total - Chad                             3,960        4,460        367         154         271
Source: Livestock Department, 1975 Annual Report
1/ According to the 1976 SEDES cattle census.
2/ Mission estimates.
3/ Lake Chad Basin Commission.



- 26 -
CdAD                                   ANNEX 1
Table 2
SECOND LIVESTOCK PEOJECT
THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
Livestock Production and Value. 1970-75
Unit             1970         1971         1972         1973         1974        1975
Cattle
Herd number                    '000 head            4,550        4,600        4,690        2,970        3,261       3,2611/
Offtake rate                   Zil                                  il           il                        11.5         8
Carcass weight                 kg/head                130          130          120          110           130         130
Output meat/offals3/           '000 tons               81.3         82.2         77.4         118.3         60.9        42.4
Producer price                 CFAF/head-4/         9,500       10,500       11,500       10,000       15,000      2C,000
Value meat/offals              CFAF million         4,755        5,313        5,934        8,600        5,625       5,220
Output milks/                  million litres         131          132          135           85            94          94
Value milkY'                   CFAF million         1,559        1,742        1,944        1,411        1,767        2,350
Sheep and Coats
Herd number                    '000 head            5,000        5,100        5,200        4,900        5,000       5,1501/
Output meat/offalsi/           '000 tons               21.0         21.5         21.9          22.7         21.0        21.7
Producer price8/               CFAF/head4/            887          979        1,073          933        1,400       1,500
Value meat/offals              CFAF million         1,331        1,498        1,674        1,511        2,100       2,318
Volume milk9/                  million litres          30.0         30.6          31.2         29.4         30.0        30.9
Value milk                     CFAF million           357          404          449          488           564         773
Camels
Herd number                    '000 head              555          560          560           545          560         566
Output meats1/                 '000 tons                4.2          4.2          4.2           4.1          4.2         4.2
Producer pric ln/              CFAF/heade/         15,200       16,793       18,397       16,003       24,000       25,714
Value meat                     CFAF million           422          470          515          436           672         727
Volume milkL2/                 million litres          15.0         15.2         15.2          14.7         15.2        15.3
Value milk                     CFAF million           179          201           219          244          286         383
Meat and 0f fals
Total outputL3/                '000 tons              106.5        107.9        103.5         145.1         86.1        68.3
Total value                    CFAF million         6,508        7,281        8,123       10,547        8,397        8,265
Milk
Total output                   million litres         176          178          181           129          139         140
Total value                    CFAF million         2,095        2,347        2,612        2,143         2,617       3,506
TOTAL VALUE
Livestock                      CFAF million         8,603        9,628       10,735       12,690        11,014      11,771
Crops                          CFAF million        20,583       20,408       21,494       22,007        23,947      32,853
Fish                           CFAF million         2,553        3,200        5,160        6,440         7,360       5,520
Agricultural sector            CFAF million        31,739       33 236       37,389       41,137       42,321       50,144
Share of Livestock             Z                       27           29           29            31           26          24
Recorded exporta
Total merchandise              CFAF million         8,219        7,737        9,923        9,784        14,619      13,113
Livestock subsector            CFAF n.illion        1,821        1,975        1,718        1,600         1,780       1,155
Share of Livestock             Z                       22           26            17           16           12           9
Sources:  Volume data until 1973:  Annual Reports of the Livestock Department; 1974 and 1975:  Approvisionnement en
Viande de l'Afrique Centrale - le Tchad, UNDAT II, Yaounde, 1976; Mission estimates.
1/ Not comparable vith the cattle population shown at Table 1, since there was no livestock census in the period
1970-75; the series shown here is consistent.
2/  Offtake in 1973 assumed to be 50% of the decline in herd numbers between 1972 and 1973.
3/ Includes offals estimated at 25% of carcass weight.
4/  Liveweight.
5/  24% of cattle are cows in milk, 120 litres available/lactation.
6/  Unit values inferred from 1975 price of CFAF 25/litre and the index of liveweight cattle prices, except that the
1973 value is taken as the mid-point between 1972 and 1974 rather than the lower value implied by the index.
7/  Offtake rate:  30%; carcass weight:  12.2 kg/head; includes offals estimated at 15% of carcass weight.
8/  1974 and 1975:  reported data; pre-1974:  inferred by applying the index of liveweight cattle prices.
9/ 30% females in milk, 20 litres available/lactation.
10/  Offtake rate:  5%; carcass weight:  150 kg/head; offals are not consumed.
11/  1974:  reported datum; 1975:  increased in same proportion as the sheep/goat price; pre-1974:  inferred by ap-
plying the index of liveweight cattle prices.
12/  18% of camels are females in milk, 150 litres available/lactation.
13/ Production fron pig., horses and donkeys is estimated et les6 than 300 tnns/year and is excluded; equally, the
production 'lost' through the increase in numbers of work oxen is not reflected in this table; even in 1975, how-
ever, this 'loss' was only 3,000 tons.



-27 -
CIAD                                        ANMNX 1
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT                               Table 3
TEE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
Livestock Trade. 1970 snd 1975
1970                                     1975
Number      Carcas       Total           Number      Carcaes      Total
WeiRht      Weight                       Weight      W teht
('000 head) (kg/head>  ('000 tons)    ('000 hcad) (kg/h«d)  ('000 tons)
Cattls
1. Controlled *laughter:  Export                    70.9        162        11.46             17.6        159        2.76
Local                  58.5         131         7.68             59.1        124        7.34
2. Live exportil:  Controll d                       31 8
Uncontrollsd                 118:2        145        21.75            120.0         145      17.40
3. Uncontrolled slaughter:  ExportY/                20.0        100         2.00             16.0        100        1.60
Local-!             201.1        110        22.17              48.3        100        4.83
Total Offtake                                      500.5                   65.06            261.0        130       33.93
Offala at 25Z                                                              16.27                                    8.48
Total *LtpuS:  Export                              240.9                   42.12            153.6                  27.31
Local                             259.6                   39.21             107.4                  15.10
Total                             500.5                   81.33             261.0                  42.41
Sheap und Goats
1. Controlled *laughter:  Export                    13.0         18         0.23              9.0         19        0.17
Local                   41.0         14         0.59             64.0         13        0.85
2. Live exporta-:  Controlled                       14.0         12.5      1.34             100.0         12.5      1.25
Uncootrolled                  93.0
3. Uncontrolled slaughter   Export                   -                     -                  -                     -
Local             1,339.0         12        16.07          1,372.0          12       16.58
Total Offtake                                   1,500.0          12.2      18.23          1.545.0         12.2    18.85
Offals nt 15X                                                               2.73                                    2.83
Total output:  Export                              120.0                    1.77            109.0                   1.61
Local                           1,380.0                   19.19           1,436.0                  20.07
Total                           1,500.0                   20.96           1,545.0                  21.68
Camals
Total OutPut   Export                               14.8        150         2.21             15.3        150        2.30
Local                              13.0        150         1.95              13.0        150       1.95
Total                              27.8        150         4.16              28.3        150       4.25
Total _eat snd Offals
Export                                                                    46.10                                   31.22
Local                                                                      60.35                                  37.12
Total                                                                    106.45                                   68.34
Total cubsector exporta (CFAF million)                                      3.0                                    3.8
Racorded exporta                                                            1.8                                    1.2
So:  u,recorded exporta                                                    1.2                                     2.6
Total population (million)                                                  3.64                                   4.02
Soa  per capita consumption (kg/head)                                     16                                       9
Sources:  Annuel Reports of the Farcha abattoir; for 1974:   NDAT Il, op. cit.; Mission estimatas.
1/  Estimatsd by UNDAT II *t 145.000 in 1974 snd verified by crosc-checking vith iuport data in nsighboring countries.
2/  Exported as dried mat; numbers inferred froui recorded exporte of dried meat at 25 kg/head.
3/  By difference betwe n total offtaks and precoding items.
4/  Estimated by UNDAT Il at 135,000 in 1974; cross-checking witb import data in  elighboring countries vas inconclusive.



-28-                                 ANNEX 1
Table 4
CHAD
SECOND LI7ESTOCK PROJECT
THE LIVESTOCE SUBSECTOR
Taxation
1966          1972           1973           1974           19758/         19769/
-    - - - - - - - - - - - (CFAP million) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Head Tax and Sales Taxl/
Theoretical Yield                       1,035          1,172            203            180            180
Budgeted Receipte                                        150            300            500            500
Effective Recaipts                        387            136             40             34              2
Collection Colt                            20             20              -              -              -             _
Municipal Market Taxes3!
Effective Receipts                         21             15             15             13              8              7
Collection Cost                             1              1              1              1              i
Slaughter Taxes3/
Theoretioal Yield                                        180            180            312            312
Budgeted Receipts                                         29             43             88             87
Effective Receipts                         32             35             45             84             70             40
Collection Coet                             1              1              2              3              4              4
Realth Taxes and Fees4/
Budgeted Receipts                                         40             85            163            163
Effective Recsg>&a/                         -             27             32      I      32             40             30
Collection Colt-                                          -              -              -              30             30
Export Taxes
Theoretical Yield - live aninele                         228            275            380            230            240
Effective Rectipts:
Live animls                                            61             72             50             25              5
Anil producte2/                                        66             63             73             95            105
Total                                  182            127            135            123            120            110
Collection Cost                            29             45             45             45             45             45
Licenses
Theoretical Yield                                         30             30             33             30
Effective Receipte                          9             10             10             il             10             il
Total
Effective Receipte                        631            350            277            297            250            198
Collection Coît                            51             67             58             60             89             89
Sources:  Etude sur la Fiscalité du Secteur Elevage. BtI-Agrer, August 1976; Mission estimates.
1/  The Read Tax (cattle:  CFAF 170/year; amallstock:  CFAF 30; horses and ca-els:  CFAF 300) vas *bolished in
April 1973 and replaced by a Sales Tax payable by the buyer (cattle: CFAF 500; *mllstock: CFAF 50; horses
CFAF 1,500; camlsa: CIAF 2,000); this tax vas abolished in Deceuber 1975.
2/ Three related taxes: permit for stock movement vithin mmmicipal boundaries; market entry fee; buyer's fee.
It is unclear whether or not the mnicipalities covered the colts of the mrkets from the 'taxes' collected.
All thre< taxes vere abolished in December 1975, except *t N'Djiena.
3/ Tvo related taxes:  a mat inspection tax, increased from CFAF 5 to CFAF 10/kg net in 1973, payable st the
modern abattoirs at N'Djamena and Sarh; and a slaughter tax (cattle: CFAF 200/head; smallstock: CFAF 30),
payable at thé 'national' abattoir.; thé latter tax vas abolished in December 1975.
4/ An asessent of taxes  nd fees, of which the rates vere changed in January 1974 and the main items are:
rinderpest vaccination certificata for cattle bound for export: CFAF 500; trypanocidal treatment certifi-
cate for cattle bound for export: CFAF 250; export permits for cattle: CFAF 200.
5/  1975 effective receipts vers estimated to be CFAF 80 million prior to the prohibition of live animal exports
in July 1975.
6/ 75 tax collectors vere appointed in 1975.
7/ Chilled meat, dried meat, hides nd skins.
1/  Partly eîtimted.
9/ For-cast, based on legialation in force in nid-1976.



-29 -
ANNLX I
Table 5
CMD
SEU S LIVESTOCK PRWECT
TUE LTVEITOOE suSEæ R0
Li-stock Doartt Porsonnel
Qualification   1971      1972      1973      1974      1975     1976
TypeLa
Senior
Voternsrian- Cbiad                            C               2         4         7        10       il        15
T.chnical assistents          C              il        10        10       10        12         5
Anial llwbmadry Specialiets                   C                                                       1        1
Subtotal                                                   13                  17       20        24        21
Intetediats
Liv.stock works tngineers                     C                                                      1         3
Livestock coutrollers                         P              30        40        47       53        52        47
Livetock assistants                           p               313                13                           i
Subtotal                                                             53                 6         66        61
EZcecutina
Livestock technical agts                      C                1          12      1  /2    1         3         3
Livestoak tdchmical &gnts (Traie«$)           C                                                               40
Certifi d vetcrinary aurse                    P              5i        77        98       96        95        70
Voteriry assistant                            P   )                                        19       17        14
Veterinary  axrs»                             P   )         123       123       114       109      103        93
Subtotal                                                   76       201                Z         '225      225
Other
Office staff                                                  9        10         9         9        8        15
Garap  staff                                                  9         9         9         7        7         8
Drivers                                                      35        37        39       39        39        39
Interpreters                                                  4         4        4         4         4         4
Labors r   garders  ad rdAins                                 3.        3         3         3        3         3
Carpenters and msons                                          4         5         7        7         7         7
Subtotal                                                   64        68       11        69        68        76
Grand Total                                                   296       336       361       387      383       383
Source.  Livestock Department Aauial Stetistical Report
1/   C -  Current QÂalficatioultrainins systam
P -  Previous grading  yste
2/ Technical assistance volunteer



-30-                                                         NE 
Table 6
C_AD
SECOND LIVESTOCIC PlOJECT
THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
Structure of Livestock Departuant. March 1977
Conter                          Sector                      No. of Vet.                               Stff Nmb«se
Posta e /        Senior      ntermdiata   Exoeative    Other    Total
A. Within Pro1ect Area
Central
Ati                             3                   l             l            12           4        18
Oum-Radjer                      2                                 1             6           1         8
M(ongo                          3                                               7           1         a
Eastern!
Abeche                          4                                 l            14           6        21
Biltine                         5                                 1            10           2        13
raya                            1                                               1                     2
North-Western
Pao                             5                   l             3             9           l       14
Sol                             6                                 l            12           4        17
Moussoro                        4                                 l             7           2        lO
sot-Ceneral
N'Djaana                        0                                 2            12           5
Nassakory                       1                                 2             6           1         9
ausenya                         3                                 1             8                     9
Bokoro                          2                                 l             7           1         9
South-Eastera
A-Tian                         2                                 1             6           1         8
Sub-total                                                  41                   2            18 5Uz                    29       166
B. Outside Prolect Arma
West-Central                                                     3                                 2           il           1        14
South-Eastern                                                    82/                1             5            26           2        34
South-Western                                                   20 3/               1              6           46            6       59
Sub-total                                                                                    13            83                     !
C. Other Departmental Activities
Administration                                                                      3             1  -                     10        14
'Projecte Office                                                                     l                                       2        3
Cotton Planning                                                                                   1                         2         3
Carpenters/Masons                                                                                                           4         4
Pharacy                                                                                                                     2         2
Airpott Sanitary Inspection                                                                       2             2                     4
Garage                                                                                                                      5         5
Planning Office                                                                     1             1                         4         6
Ltystock Assistante School                                                          3             2             l           2        8
Ba-rlt Technical Collage                                                                         1                                  1
Farcha Abattoir                                                                     1             3             5                     9
Livestock Production Center                                                         2             5             6           4        17
Farcha Laboratory                                                                   1             3             5           3        12
Seconduents                                                                         3             2                                   5
In Training Abroad  4/                                                                            8                                  8
Not Assigned                                                                                                    4                     4
Lake Chad Basin Coomission                                                          1             1             1                     3
Sub-total                                                                     16            30            24          38       108
Grand Total                                                                  l             61           224          76       381
Source:  Livestock Departunt Personnel Section
l/   With resident staff.
2/   Plus 1 poultry center  nd 1 modern abattoir.
3/   Plus l poultry center.
4/   In Senegal (4), France (3), and Upper Volta (1).



-   --- ^-  - - -  -- - -   <-^  - - - - - - -^-^ -!e - - 
W   1t 1 -« -- ^  1[ f S. d.S  HS  ^   SH N ^  ^  H  iT[l o1    l  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Î-
i ]  ^  ^ ^    H   H ^   SHS    ^   H H * ^ ^ H^ SH   ^^   ^   ^ ^H  I f I   I  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Î
''  3llAi ;--  -       SH             ^  SH    ^  ^ H  H          *    g   *i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
|~~~~~~~~' M -          l----^tK      
3                               1s 2 j s >   ] 0 Z }                                             



- 32 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 8
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
THE LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
Livestock Department Budget
1963-1977
Year               Personnel    Manual         Operating    Vaccines       Total
Workers       Costs
_____________- --_____------- CFAF '000 -------------------
1963               81,189        10,811        20,193        15,000        127,193
1964               89,318        10,682        25,533        15,500        141,033
1965               89,782        13,000        34,340        16,425        153,547
1966               94,000        13,000        41,500        16,425        164,925
1967               95,334        11,000        35,450        16,425        158,209
1968               91,336        11,000        41,050        17,500        160,886
1969               97,971        11,000        29,600        14,800        153,371
1970               99,984        11,000        29,600        19,500        160,084
1971              102,596        12,419        28,850        19,656        163,521
1972               90,279         7,060        23,606             0        120,945
1973               91,711         6,000        23,606             0        121,317
1974               94,857        21,000        21,500             0        137,357
1975              128,058        16,000        35,032             O        179,090
1976              162,305        16,904        16,473             0        195,682
1977              168,436        20,597         6,000             O       195,033
Source: Livestock Department



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PASTORAL UNITS AND LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Organization of, and Extension Services to, Livestock Producers
1.        The main project objective is to develop livesto:k production in the
sahelian zone through (a) improved animal health services and (b) improved
animal and pastoral productivity. These approaches to the main objective
cannot, however, be pursued satisfactorily in the framework within which the
Livestock Department currently operates; this consists of exclusively indivi-
dual contacts between pastoralists and departmental staff. Such contacts, and
the traditional links between pastoralists, have sufficed to ensure good
protection against the main diseases, but they are sufficient neither for more
complex animal health and husbandry programs nor for pastoralists' participa-
tion in the management and improvement of communal rangelands and stock
watering points. The project would broaden the current framework of contacts
between pastoralists and departmental staff by acting both on the pastoralists,
among whom a new form of organization would be promoted, and on departmental
staff, for whom animal health and husbandry extension services to pastoralists
would become a full-time activity, for which they would be properly equipped
and better trained.
Organization of the Pastoralists and the Rangelands
2.        Wherever possible, the project would implement and work through a
new form of organization of pastoral people. This organization would consti-
tute both a framework and a means to develop livestock production. It would
have two main features: the geographical delineation of pastoral units (PU),
and the grouping of the livestock producers in each PU into an association of
pastoralists (AP). This form of organization would be set up without disturb-
ing traditional social structures and would be based on the broad agreement of
the participants. The associations, which would each have a committee and a
representative with executive responsibilities, would provide a permanent link
between their members and government departments. Specifically, the associa-
tions would serve as intermediaries and guarantors in credit matters, would
permit financial participation in maintenance and development of fixed assets,
would increase the effectiveness of the extension service and, to some extent,
thereby reduce the need for extension staff.
3.        Each association would receive grazing and watering rights in
its pastoral unit. In exchange for these rights, the association would



- 34 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 2
accept to make better use of the rangeland and watering points, to provide
for their maintenance and, later, to participate in their improvement. The
associations would also undertake to observe the directives and advice of
government technical departments after due consultation with representatives
of those departments.
4.        Each association would select and recruit, if possible from among
its members, an agent who, after approval by the relevant technical depart-
ments and subsequent training, would assist in: (a) diffusion among the
members of his association of the new animal health and husbandry techniques
that he will have been taught; (b) application by himself of certain tech-
niques that require some technical know-how; (c) supply of livestock equipment
and products to the members of his association; (d) promotion of credit, by
assisting in the filing of applications and in technical followup; (e) advice
on technical matters to the association's representative, execution of deci-
sions made by the association concerning livestock management and collection
of the financial participations, if any, of the members; and (f) maintenance
of contact with the staff of technical departments who are responsible for
his supervision and for supplying him with livestock equipment and products,
and the collectiôn of information which he will have been asked to supply.
Delineation of Pastoral Units
5.        The delineation of PUs would consist of identifying and mapping
the rangeland traditionally and regularly exploited by socially-homogeneous
groups. The PUs would be a sufficient area that the respective associations
may be able to withstand the effects of bush fires and the patchiness of
rainfall; the PUs should not, however, be so large that the associations would
require more than one agent. On average, each PU would include 6,000-15,000
cattle, depending on the value of rangeland pasture, size and composition of
herds and the homogeneity of the people.
6.        As far as possible, the delineation of PUs would entail a complete
allocation between dry season and wet season grazing grounds as well as
transhumance corridors. The latter would entail the delineation of areas
common to several associations. Additional common areas would provide for
wet season grazing in the extreme north, where climatic variability implies
irregular inter-year forage production.
7.        One of the studies financed under the First Livestock Project
(Credit 309-CD) resulted in the definition of a method for delineating
PUs. This study, undertaken in the north-west of Batha prefecture, also
revealed that the pastoralists warmly welcomed the idea of PUs; moreover,
the study showed that the deLineation method could be applied to all
the project area, with the possible exception of the Kredda and Kecherda
regions of the Bahr el Gazal in Kanem prefecture. In these regions,
traditional social groupings are more diverse and smaller than elsewhere
and implementation of the new form of organization will proceed more
slowly.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        The team which would be responsible for delineation of PUs and areas
common to more than one association would comprise: a human geographer and an
agrostologist, both with some knowledge of the project area, a representative
from each of the Livestock Department and the Rural Engineering Department,
and a representative of the prefectoral administration; the latter would
Lertify that the pastoralists were in agreement with the proposed delineation
of their respective PUs. The team would work in close collaboration with
traditional local authorities. The Water Bureau would also contribute to the
team's work. All existing stock watering points not beyond repair, whether
currently operational or not, would be taken into account when assessing the
number of animals that could be watered in a PU; regarding the need for further
water points it would be assumed that, unless there were good reasons for
making an exception, the distance between watering points would permit live-
stock to be watered every day. The delineation of PUs should, as far as
possible, provide a margin of security of 15% and an additional margin for
herd growth (and in that order of priority) by reference to the grazing needs
of the existing livestock in the area.
9.        The delineation team would prepare, for each PU, an inventory of
existing stock watering points and their condition, and a list of current
and future needs for new watering points including the replacement of those
that may be beyond repair.
10.       The team would prepare an official minute of its work, together with
a dimensioned sketch map of the PUs and the common areas. Representatives
of communities in adjacent PUs would, wherever practicable, countersign the
minute. This would serve, later, as the basis for the allocation of grazing
and watering rights to each association after its constitution. The official
minute would provide a list of family heads affected by each PU and who would
join the respective association, as well as the number and kind of their live-
stock. The minute would also specify, if necessary, the sites of boundary
posts to be installed. Official recognition of PUs and their boundaries would
be made by recognition of the corresponding association and the subsequent
granting of grazing and watering rights. Associations of pastoralists would
be officially recognized on the basis of Livestock Department recommendations,
and the rights and obligations of associations would be specified pursuant to
regulations including a model charter for associations and to be enacted by
September 30, 1978, after consultation with IDA regarding the model charter.
11.       The delineation team would as far as possible include the same
people as those in the team, put together by the Farcha Laboratory, that
initiated the work in Batha prefecture. The work would be undertaken in
two phases of which the first would be executed in the PY1 dry season, in
that part of the project area served by Livestock Department mobile teams
(area A). To the extent to which the security situation improves, the second
phase could be executed in the PY2 dry season in the remainder of Batha
and Chari-Baguirmi prefectures, currently served by Livestock Department
sectors and posts (area B). A separate report would be prepared for each
phase of the work. Detailed costs, amounting to CFAF 57 million, are shown at
Table 1 for delineation work in the whole of the prefectures of Lake, Kanem,
Batha and Chari Baguirmi.



- 36 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 4
Constitution of Associations of Pastoralists
12.       Based on the work oiE the delineation team, the extension service
would assist livestock producers to form associations of pastoralists.
The model proposed to the producers would be comparable to that of the
Animal Health Defense Groups, which are fairly informal but effective bodies,
recently set up in the cotton zone among owners of work oxen. The extension
service would nonetheless encourage and assist pastoralists to give to their
associations a legal status; to this end, a simple, generally applicable
statute would be devised which would permit the announcement of the constitu-
tion of an association of pastoralists to the prefectoral authorities. This
statute would provide for the selection of a committee and a representative
of the association.  Whether an association be de facto or de jure, its
representative and some committee members would be invited to participate in a
short course, which would explain the role of associations of pastoralists
and that of their senior members, the benefits of this form of organization,
and how to make it work and get the most from it. In particular, the role
of the agent to be recruited, criteria for his selection, the need for his
approval by the extension service, the training that he would receive, and
the manner in which the agent would work under the direct orders of the
association's representative and under the technical supervision of the
extension service, would be explained in detail. At the end of the course,
the extension service would assist each association in finding an agent with
the requisite qualifications and experience.
13.       Once selected, and having received the approval of the extension
service, the agents would participate in a training course of which the first
part would be identical to that given to the associations' representatives,
and the second part would dea:L with technical matters. Formal confirmation
of the agents by the extension service would be given at the end of the
course. The agents' training would be broadened and updated in a continuing
manner by on-the-job contact with the extension service and, more formally,
by periodic refresher courses. Since the agents will have been selected
from among the pastoralists themselves, the first training course should
last no longer than three weeks and the subsequent refresher courses no
longer than one week.
Reorganization of the Livestock Department
14.       Given the new form of organization of pastoral peoples, the Live-
stock Department, whose activ:ities have traditionally been limited to vacci-
nation campaigns against the major diseases, would be changed in order to
permit full-time provision of animal health and husbandry services to
pastoralists. This change, which would require some additional buildings and
equipment, would be effected above all by the retraining of departmental
staff to prepare them for broader responsibilities and for the new framework
within which they would operate. The initial retraining would be periodically
repeated during the life of the project.



- 37 -                    ANNEX 2
Page 5
15.       The project would finance the additional construction required to
permit the department to operate on a sound basis and to adapt to the new
framework of contacts with pastoralists. These investments would include
(a) construction of 15 metal vaccination yards, which would complete the
network required for vaccination campaigns in the accessible project area;
(b) construction of two livestock sector bases in Batha prefecture, at Yao
and Djedaa; (c) completion of handling yards at Koundjourou, Am Djemena, Am
Sak and Assertini; and (d) construction of 12 livestock posts, to permit
departmental executing staff to live close to PUs that are located far from
existing posts. The locations of these 12 posts cannot be specified until
after delineation of PUs. Construction costs, amounting to CFAF 184 million,
are detailed at Table 3. Additional office accommodation in N'Djamena is
detailed separately in Annex 7.
16.       The Sahelian Zone Project (Credit 739-CD) will finance equipment
and renewal of vehicles and technical equipment required in the regional
centers in the project area, operation of these items and a small complement
of additional staff, all for one year whereupon the proposed project would
begin. The effect of the two projects would be to permit the Livestock
Department to operate satisfactorily for five years, while implementing and
testing the new forms of organization. Costs of new vehicles and equipment
and their operation, amounting to CFAF 342 million, are detailed in Table 4.
Operating costs of existing vehicles and equipment, amounting to CFAF 97
million, are detailed in Table 5.
Animal Health and Husbandry Activities
17.       Working through the new forms of organization as they are set-up,
the project would follow-up the activities initiated or sustained by the
Sahelian Zone Project (see Annex 6 of the appraisal report). Among the
animal health activities, only vaccinations would be given free of charge;
other animal health actions as well as the distribution of drugs, mineral
licks and feed supplements would be payable after an extension and demonstra-
tion period of two years; during this period, beneficiaries would pay 20% of
the costs of mineral licks. Distribution of veterinary and livestock equip-
ment would be fully payable from the outset. A central pharmaceutical store
and the first stock of drugs and equipment are being financed by German aid.
This facility and the new possibility for the Livestock Department to operate
a revolving fund for distribution at cost and restocking would considerably
ease project execution. The proposed project would finance initial stocks
of drugs, supplements and equipment in the associations of pastoralists and
in the Livestock Department at the end of the free distribution period where
foreseen.
18.       The project would finance vaccination campaigns and improve their
quality. It would finance the supply of vaccines for the whole country,
with the exception of the Assale canton where vaccines would be financed
by the second Assale-Serbewel project, and of Lake prefecture where FAC



- 38-                       ANNEX 2
Page 6
would finance vaccines for two years. Vaccine supply is detailed at Table 2
which includes physical contingencies of 20% to cover (a) herd growth; (b) a
possible expansion of the area in which mobile teams can operate; (c) the
possible introduction of new vaccines for smallstock; these three factors
would be partially offset by (d) the probable introduction of new packaging,
better adapted to the conditions in which the vaccinations are given. The
possible new smallstock vaccines against smallstock respiratory diseases
would be subject to controlled field tests in northern Chari Baguirmi in PY1
under the technical direction of IEMVT. If the tests are successful, to the
satisfaction of Government and IDA, the supply of these vaccines would be
financed for the whole country in PY2 and after; this would be the first time
that vaccines for smallstock were made available in Chad.
19.       Worms are the principal cause of death of young cattle.  A deworming
campaign was launched after the 1973 drought, as an exceptional measure to
assist herd reconstitution. Although on a limited scale, this campaign had a
marked effect on herd productivity and it will be followed up as a priority
action in the Sahelian Zone Project. The proposed project would follow up
this activity throughout the project area. The treatment would be given to
calves and cattle between 12 and 24 months. The associations' agents, who
would hold a stock of the required drugs, would be responsible for promoting
their use by pastoralists and for demonstrating how to use them as a standard
livestock management practice. The project would also finance a deworming
campaign for smallstock, as recommended by the study of smallstock, financed
by the First Livestock Project.
20.       The project would also follow up the activities of the Sahelian
Zone Project regarding trypanosomiasis, which is contracted by cattle during
transhumance towards the south of the country. Trypanocidal treatments would
be undertaken by the associations' agents at the request of the pastoralists.
The project would also finance trypanocidal treatments for camels.
21.       In addition to animal health measures, the extension service would
promote the use of animal husbandry techniques to increase herd productivity.
These techniques would apply to the animals, to their feeding, and to their
environment. The main actions in respect of the animals would be (a) advice
on castration and the provision of castration pliers for cattle and smallstock;
(b) advice on proper branding; (c) tick control; and (d) predator control. In
respect of feeding, the project would promote (e) use of mineral licks which
provide the oligo-elements otherwise lacking in the diet which, in turn, limit
liveweight gains and fertility,; and (f) use of feed concentrates which,
because they are low-cost, could complement the rations of calves and cows-
in-milk. Detailed costs of all animal health and husbandry supplies are shown
in Table 2 and amount to CFAF 742 million.
Pastoral and Water Activities
22.       The actions in respect of the environment of the cattle would con-
cern the rangelands and watering points, to which the associations would be



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
given exclusive rights. For the rangelands, the actions would include (a)
limitation of herd numbers; (b) creation of grazing reserves; (c) limitation
of tree pruning; (d) limitation of bush fires, and other range management
techniques; during the project life, however, it will not be possible to
undertake these activities on a large scale.
23.       For the watering points, the main activity of the extension service
would be to seek and obtain pastoralists' agreement to participate in main-
tenance costs. The project would, in addition, provide for construction of
new or replacement wells wherever warranted by carrying capacîty and land-use
patterns, but provided that beneficiaries made a cash contribution of 10% of
the cost of the well, with a minimum of 5% payable prior to commencement of
construction. The effective collection of well maintenance charges would,
however, require that the existing well network be in a good state of repair
and that SERARHY itself be fully operational.  To enable SERARHY to under-
take well repairs and selective construction of new wells, the project would
provide the additional financing required for the operations of the bases in
Kanem, Chari Baguirmi and Batha.  Given the financing already obtained from
elsewhere, the project would finance operations for three years in Kanem, for
four years in Chari Baguirmi and for two years in Batha. Detailed costs are
shown in Tables 7 through 11 and amount to CFAF 591 million (US$2.4 million).
The pastoralists' financial participation would amount to CFAF 108 million
as shown at Table 12.  A fixed fee would be proclaimed by decree.  Full cost
recovery would be realized with a fee of about CFAF 100,000/well/year, equiv-
alent to CFAF 50-100/head of cattle/year for 2,000-1,000 head per well.



SIIOII LIYUTOCI PIUOJIEC!
PASTOeAL UITS AHD LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Delipnation of Ppatoral Unite
piOJaCt TUA  1                  nPOJECT IRu  2
Unit.         Unit Cont          Qua-tity          Colt         Quantity            Coot         Total           Foreign Exchange
(CFAF 000)        (enxmatha    (CIAY 000)    (.enxontha)    (CFAF `000)                                    S
Stafftn,
Agroatologiet - field vork                    anmnthe        1,800                 I x 3          5,400          I x 3             5,400         10,800                73
AgroutologiUt - report uriting                an-monthe      1,650                 I x 1          1,650          I x 1             1,650          3,300                80
Huma geographar - fi ld vork                    -mtnthe      1,800                 1   3          5,400         I x 3              5.400         10,800               73
Hmn geographer - report vritins               an-montha      1,650           -     I xI 1         1,650         1 x 1              1,650          3,300                80
Livestock dept. reprée*ntative WA 1/           an_-oths        150                 I x 3            450         1 x 3                450            900                0
SEUARY repraeantative hA il                   _o-motbe         150                 I x 3            450         1 x 3                450            900                0
Prefectoral representative UA j/              n_-mothe         150                 1 x 3            450         1 x 3                450            900                a
Hydrogeologiat  A Li                          men-montha       t50                 1 x 3            450         1 x 3                450            900                0
Drivera                                       n_-monthe         35                 3x 3             315         3 x 3                315            630                0
Assistant drivera                              sa»-Uthe         15                 3 x 3            135         3 x 3                135            270                 0
Local vorker inaurence - 3.5%                                                                        79                               79            tS8                0
Subtotal
16|429                  ~~~~~16 429    32 0!5Q               64     
Transvortation                                                                                                                                                                        *
5 x 4 wheel drive
station vagone for 9,000
ka/year each                                                                                                                    3,0 ka  140  3 x 9  3,780  3 x 9  3 780  7,560  65
Local air travel                              trip              40                   12             480           12                 480            960               65
Plane hirs                                    houri             40                   16             640           16                 640          1,280               65
Water bureau vbhiela conte                    '000 ka           70                 I x 2            140         1 x 2                140            280               65
Subtotal                                                                                          5-040                            5             10.080               65
Niscellaneous
mission subaistence                            onths           180                     3            540              3               540          1,080                 0
laprasentation                               monthn           180                     3            540              3               540          1,080                 0
Report printing                               lump *u                                             1L500                            12                                 50
Subtotal                                                                                          2 SS0                            285                                 29
Total base Coet - March  77 prices                                                                   24,049                           24,049        4U,098                 60
Total Base Coet - adjuated to March '78 prices 2/                                                    25,853                           25,853         51.706                60
Physical contingencies - 101                                                                          2,585                            2, 585         5,170               60
TOAL                                                                                                                                  28.456 876                           60
! Rardship and field allovance for local staff.
2/ 107.51.



CMMA
SECOND LIVESTOCY PROJECT
PASTORAL UNITS AND LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Vaccines, Dru.ss and Feed Supplseents
PROJECT YEAR I        PROJECT YEAR 2         PROJECT YEAR 3              PROJEOT YEAR 4
Unit       _C__t         Quantity    Cost    Qua.tity       Cost      Oountitv       Cost         Quantitv    coat           Do        £choVnege
(CFAF '000)       '000   (CFAF '000)  0OO0     (CFAF '000)    '000      (CFAF '000)        '000    (CFAF '000)  (Ci7AF '000
Vaccines                                                               -     / 
Riadsrpest/CBPP                      '000 doses     8.95          2,500    22,375       2,500      22,375       2,700       24,165          2,700     24,165        93,080       60
Anthrax                              '000 doses    10.80          1,800    19,440       1,800      19,440       2,000       21,600          2,000      21,600       82,080       60
Bîachqoarter                         '000 doses     9.20          1,300    11,960       1,300      11,960       1,400       12,880          1,400     12,880        49 680       60
Pasteourella                         '000 doses    16.84             25       421          25         421          25          421             25        421         1,684       60
C8PP                                '000 doses    13.00              70       910          70         910          70          910             70         910        3,640       60
Poultry I                            '000 doses     2.40            100       240         100         240         100          240            100         240          960       60
Poultry 2                            '000 doses     9.55             50       478          50         478          50          478             50        478         1,912       60
Rabies                               '000 doses    92.00              3       276           3         276           3          276              3         276        1,104       60
Srbtt*el                                                                       56,100                  56.100                   60,970                     60.970      234 1         60
Sn1llstock Vaccine Field Teste
Smallstock plague                    '000 doses   1.00              3         300                    -                        - 
Para-influenza (inactive vaccine)  '000 doses  180.00               10      ,800                     -                        --
Para-influenza (live vaccine)       '000 doses    15.00             30        450                                                                                       450      9o
Identification markers                  '000       60.00            40      2,400                                 -                         -                         2,400      90
Sera Tests                              '000      500.00             8      4,ooo                                                                                     4,ooo      60
Pliera                                 '000         5.00            20     _100                                                                                         100      90
Subtotst                                                                                                 -                                                                2          70
Drus and Sall Materials e /
Calf drenches                        '000 doses    60.00            300    18,000         300      18,000         300       18,000             200     12,000        66,000       90
Cattie dre.ches                      '000 doses   120.00            100    12,000         100      12,000        100        12,000              75      9,000        45s.oo       90
Smll stock dre.shes                  '000 doses    16.50            200      3,300        200       3,300        200         3,300             150      2,475        12,3759      90
Trypanocides,cattle                  '000 doses    60.00              30     1,800         30       1,800          30        1,800              20      1,200         6,600       90
Trypenocides, c mels                '000 doses   150,00              30      4,500         30       4,500          30        4,500              20      3,000        16,500       90
Miscell.neo.s drugs                  lump su                                 3,000                  3,000                    6 ooo                      3,090        15,000       90
smail meterials  3/                  lump *u                                 4,ooo                  2,000                    2,000                      2,000        1            90
-Subtotal                                                                        460                    44,6oo                   47                         32,675       171,475       90
Feed Supplsments
Miseral licks                        kg            100.00            350    35,000        350      35,000         350       35,000             200     20,000        125 000      20
Concentrates                        kg              16.00            250     4,000        250       4,000         400        6,400             250      4,000        18o400        e
Subtotal                                                                        39.000                 39.000                   41 40                      24.000        143,'400     18
Incresental Staff
Canel herdsen                        No             72.00             10       720         10         720          10          720              10        720         2,880        0
VaccinÎtors                          No            180.00             35     6,300         35       6,300          35        6,300              35      6,300        25,200        0
Local aorker insura..e
- 3.5%                                                                       246                    246                      246                        246           984        0
Subtotal                                                                         7,266                   7,266                    7,266                      7,266       29,064        0
Total Base CostS - Match '77 prises                                             158,016               1i6,966                   157,236                    124,911       58<,129       56
Total Base Coste - adjusted to March '78 prises _                               169,867                157, 988                '169,029                    134,279       631,163       56
Physicel Costingencies - 20%                                                     33,973                 31,598                   33,806                     26,856       126,233       56 -
TOTAL                                                                           23840                  189.586                      835                    161.1z5       75796         56
To be -upplied to pasforaliets free of charge.
To be supplied free in PY1, snd PY2; to be paid for bly pbetoralists in PY3 and PY4 with initial stocks (50% of amount shown in PY3) financed by FED.
3   To be pid for by pastoraliste from thi  outset, with initial stocks (50% of aonunt shon in PYI) financed by IDA.
,/To be paid for by pa6tora1ist. at the rate of 205% in PYl and PY2; 100v6 thereafter, with i.iti.1 ..t.ks (50x of amount shown in PY3) financed by IDA.
J To be distrXib.t.d free in PY1 and PY2; to be paid for by postoralioto in PY3 and PY4, with initial stocks (50o% of aoount shoon in PY3) financed by IDA.
6/1o7.5%.



CUAD
SPCoeN  LIVgSnO=  PIOJECT
PASTORAL UMiMS 8 LIVSTOCiK SERVICES
Field Station and Vaccination Yards
IojEr  1'                P          oJCt tUE    2
Unit          Unit Coet            Quantity           Coet           Quantity          Cont           Total           Foreign  Exchangu
(CFAr I000)                           (CFAF  000)                      (CFAF .000)                                                  -
Vaccination Yards                                  No              2,500                    15            37.500                                          37.500                 75
New liveatock *ector coooundg
ct Yc acnd Dledda
Office/arehou»e 58 m2 1/                       No              3,480                     2             6.960                                           6.960                45.
Souse 9 M2 2/                                  No               7,680                    2            15,360                                          15,360                 50
Enclosure vall 220 l a/                        No              1,320                     2             2.640                                           2,640                 35
Vaccination yard                               No              2,500                     2             5.000                                           5.000                 75
29.960                                          29 960                 51
Enclosure Walls for Existing
Livestock Comsounda
220 a I/                                       No              1,320                    4             5.280                                            5f280                35
Livestock Tachnicians Quarters
Office/warehousa/houue 85 *Z 4/                No              5,950                                                  12            71,400            71,400                45
Enclosure vall 128 a                           No                768                                                  12            9.216            _9.216                 35
0,dO616          80.616                 44
Total Uase Cont - March '77 price.                                                                        72.740                         80,616          153,356                 53
Total Bae. Cont - adjusted to Harch '78 prices a/                                                         79.287                        87,871           1671538                 53
Pbysical contingencie - 107                                                                                7,929                          8,787           16,716                53
TOTAL                                                                                                    87,216                         96f658           183.874                 53
1/ CFAF 60.000/-2
2/ CFAF 80,000/.2
3/ CFAF 6,000/m
/ CFAF 70,000/m2
5/ 1092



SECOND L17ESTOCk PROJECT
PASTORAL UNITS ANO LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Ne= Vehicles gAd Eouipuent -d their Qseotioo
PROJECT YEAR 1                      PROJECT YEAR 2                     PROJECT YTAR 3                       PROJCr YEAR 4
Unit                                                                                                                                                              Total    2 Foroign
uLir                  Cnet       Oeetity                  Cot             Q.artit,             Cnet       .O.otity                Cost        Qpeocîry                   Coat           Con t         cheueg
(CFO 00)        000               (CFbOOO C000                                                                                                     (CPAF '005)   (CFAF 'O00)
veSicles ndS Opuioment S'orohaoeo
35es! drive station wgons             No                   2,400             S                19,200                                                  7                 164800             8                 19,200          55,200         90
3,5t trocek                           No                  2,820              2                 5,640                                                 9                  25 380             2                  5,640          36,660         90
6,5  Stocke                           No                  5,400                                                                                      3                  16,200                                               16,200         90
tressere                              No                    300                                                   10               3,000                                                                                     16rnn0         9
Insoleted roorsinure                  No                     23                                                   20                 16D                                                  20                    460             §20         50
Vst-ri-ry kits                        Sets                    91                                                                                    10                     910                                                  910        100
Vet. Msepliog eqoipet                 Sets                    75                                                                                                                                                 60             9 
Lubostooy eqeip-ut                    lup                                                                                                                                                 12                    900             900        100
l9ùbt~~t~l                                                                         91900 9s soue9,50
Ouenotn±                                                                                   34,1%o                               3 460                                59.290                               26200          123,69          9
Oieratite Coutl
4 .hinl drive etatio- wsgoo           R No   '000 kl         70         e 024                 13,              x24                13,440         15 n 24               25,200        15 s 24                 25,200          77,280         65
6,5t tr_cke                           No s 000 rO            90         2 x 16                 7,9»          2 x 16                2,SSO        11 a 16                15,840        11 s 16                 15,840          37,440         65
B 5t trooke                           No n '000 les          150                                                                                 3 s 24                10,800         3 s 24                 10,800          21,600         65
Boet             ît Lump su2                                                                                                                                            1,680                                 1,680           3 360         65
Presser icresser    2/                erp                     29             50                1,450              50               1,50               S                 1,450             5U450 50                            5,800         65
Frseset spsre narte  -                Lump sus                                                                                     1,375                                                                              1        ,375 85
Tronesisivers repaitnu1E &aV nan*oe    Lump lat                                                1,300                               1,300                                1,300                                 1,n9-0
SobtitOl                                                                                   19,070                              20,445                               __ _                                  56_270         152,055         65
T.t -1 B.- C..t    MZ~~____                                                                                 J--                                  6,70                                  ___            ____
Totol Unie Cost   - Mer 77 prices                                                             53,810                              23,905                              115i560                                8?,470         275,745         77
Totol B7ss8 Cost - 3djnstnd to
Pr '78 princes   3                                                                            57,846                              25,698                              124,227                               88 655          296,426        77
7,635                              4,768                                1847
FhTiAL  6otige_6S4/7835                                                                                                                                                i868,472                              14 915          45,990         73
TOTAL                                                                                         65,681                              30,466                              142,699                               103,5700342.416                 76
2/  1 litre huroeeno/Oresuer/doy  ot CFAP 78/litre= CFAF 28,47Olytar,
2/  750 vioks @ 1,350    1,012,500
250 glisses 1 950  =   237,500
10  rureru 912,500 =   125,000
TOTAL           CFAF:  1,375,000
3   107.5%.
4/  10% for poroha.ci; 20% for operAintg  c-te; both ot M-rch 1979 pries.



44                         ANNEX 2
Table 5
CBAD
SECOND LIVESTOCR PROJECT
PASTORAL UNITS AND LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Operating Costa of Existinz Vehicles
Project Year 1       Project Year 2
Unit    Unit    Quantity    Cost    Quantity    C0s8t   Total Poreign
Cost                                             Cost   Exchange
(CPAF                (CFAF               (CFAF  (CFAF       Z
'000)               '000)                '000)  '000)-
4 vheel drive station
vagons              No s '000
km       70      6 x 24    10,080    6 x 24    10,080  20,160    65
3.5t trucks            No x '000
km       90     9 x 16    12,960    9 x 16    12,960  25,920    65
6.5t trucks            No x '000
km      150      3 x 24    10,800    3 x 24    10,800  21,600    65
Total Base Coste -
March '77 prices                                   33,840               33,840  67,680    65
Total Base Costs -
Adjusted to March '78
prices l/-                                         36,378               36,378  72,756    65
Physical Contingencies -
20%                                                 7,276                7,276  14,552    65
Total                                                43,654               43,654  97,308    65
1/ 107.5%



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
CRAD                                  Table 6
SECOND LIVESTOCIK PROJECT
PASTORAL UNITS AND LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Inventory of Waterins Points - 1976
Prefecture                        Wells                          Boreholes             Total    Piezometers
Concrete   Traditional   Total    Regular   Peace Corps    Points    installed
~- -------- (Nwnberu)- - ---- --- --- ----- ----
Batha                    335  1/       246         581         7            0           588          54
Kanem                    401   /       615       1,016         8            4         1,028           0
Lake                       0            54          54         2           47           103           0
Chari-Baguirmi           270           516         786        36           57           879          59
Ouaddai                   85           831         916         1            0           917          46
Biltine                   93           660         753         0            0           753         101
B.E.T.                    18            14          32         4            0            36           0
Guera                     59            95         154         0            0           154          il
Sala"at                   29           166         195         0            0           195          18
Total                  1,290         3,197       4,487        58          108         4,653         289
Source: SERARHY
-/ Excluding the 18 new vella then under construction, financed by the First Livestock
Project (Credit 309-CD).
2/ Of which 214 in Moussoro, 31 in Mao and 156 in Nokou subprefectures.



-46.                                                                                  6E R
Table 7
9E
SCTiD T 7VESTC NIOJ6CT
PAS AT, 1N170d AND LCSIOCl £RVI5S
Persoonel,HUteriale ond Oromting Costa for dateritg Polnt-
Unit                          Kanam                              Cbarlamiiomi                                  l3tha
Unit             Colt              Qeanttly               Colt             Qao tity               Coît              Qnmnttty              Ceot
(CiA! 000)                              (CFAF 000)                             (CFA! 000)                               (CFA? 00)
il
PeusonnaI
Welî-digging tena/ 2'No                                    575                 4                2,300                  4                2,300                 4                 2,300
D.rri.k te«. 3/                      No.                  692                  3                2,076                  4                2,768                 5                 3.660
S.ppy teoa  4                        Ne.                 1.913                 1                1,913                  1                1.913                 1                 1,913
Wll-lining tai  5t                   No.                  483                 I                  483                  1                  485                 1                   485
Workuhop toem/                        No.               18â8                  1                1,88l                  1                1"O                   1                 1.888
Sookk-.p.r                           go.                   250                 1                  250                  1                  250                 1                   250
Fore.a,                               No.                  750                 1                  750                  1                  750                 1                   710
Unit Chilf                           no.                   750                 1                  750                  1                  730                 1                   750
Field A4..ne.    /                                                                              2.092                                   2J 12                                   23S9
Subtotal                                                                                 12î494
materi4ls I'
C""nt                                 ton            42/60 t/                 97                4.074                113                4,830               128                 7,680
Gratl                                                  2/10 9a/              194                 388                 230                2,300               256                   512
Sand                                 M3               2                       97                  194                113                  230               128                   256
vater                                 *3               2                      58                  116                 69                  138                77                   154
Iron                                 ton                   220               10                2,200                  12                2,640                14                 3.00
Stirrpe                                000                 700                 0.6                420                  1                  700                 1.1                 770
Other                                                                                             300                                     500                                     "Ov
S.btotal                                                                                  7     692                              11a                                     J 12 ff2
Vthicle  n   otoe,«t
Fo.re-ual dri- 10-12 ton
tronk                              No.               4 500                 2                9,000                   -                  -                   I                4.503
6-8 ton tr-.k                         lo.                3,300U/               2                6,600                  3                9,900                 2                 6.600
n. nhQlea-driv  picktp                no.                2,100 .        /      2                4.200                  2                4. 200                2                 4. 2O
3/4 ton pltkup                         o.                1.500                 -                  -                    I                 SO                   -                   -
co.4pessor                            llNo                 495                 I                  495                  1                  495                 1                   45
Derrick   `No                                              130 t6              3              __.0                     4                    0                 3 
9ubtot-1                                                                                 20 685                                  1t561                                   16_=
Total bai* Costa - iarch 1977 pri.ax                                                                40,871                                  41,278                                  4I.292
Total Bae Cotte - Sarch 1978 prtces                                                                 43,936                                  44,374                                  46*539
Phyot«al Contigoenit                                                                                 4394                                    4 437                                   4 654
7TOTAL                                                             48 11.L
t1iT   nl*t-ff othe, thon drinre, w nachancs a   char"lad  an  paid for orly 9   othe/yue.r
3/   I chnragband digger (CQA! 16,000 x 12 mntho). 2 aleletant diggers (QCAF 10.000 x 9 ontha) and 3 laborura  (CPu 7,300 * 9 maths).
!   As et 2,/ plus I skilled laborer (C AP 13,000 * 9 xonths).
Il   3 dritra  (C/AF 23,000 x 12 moths)  nd 15 labotre  (CPM  7,500 m 9 months).
5/   I   achargehd lanc (<CAF 16,000 x 12 matho), 1 *aItt n ot           (<CFA  10,000 x 9 -othe) ad 3 laborer  (QCPU 7.300 m 9 .ooths).
6F/   I chief   chaoie (CFU 700,000/year), 2 maha,tile (<CAP  14,500 x 12 smnthe), 2 masitant n_chantes (CAP  12,000 x 12  nths), I driver (CA? 16,000    12    ths). 4 labonres
and 1 eatchai (CAF 7,500 x 12 uoths).
71   207 om persoonal costa.
8/  Co.uted for, for krm, 200 n    inar _etre ad 13 major reparel   for Chari  aeuirmi. 300 ne  lincer satars sud 1) mjor repaire- for athi. 300 n   liter r t«e  and
15 mjor rpaire; for   t rt-ials pnrpn», 1 mijor r-pdir La *q9tvi m t to 8 Ces lintr saltr.
9/   CFA  42,000/ton  t N lDCjaa, fro. vh re mork sites in  ane  ad Ch.ri laguirei are *applied directly ii 811STf treke; transport at CA? 18.030/tor it te bc added to
Ati, fro  thta  ork ait.  in Batha are  opplied dir.etly.
10/  CAP  1O.COOWton et NDj)a, mhr. grarl canot r-adily ba faond, dlivered on-ite by aubeontrator; CPAF 2,000/ton .lehie,e.
W    CPUA 150/km, 30,000 ks/y*r.
12/ CFAy 110/m., 30,000 he/y cr
13/ CPAt  70/km, 30,000 km/yr.
F/ QA?  50/ks, 30,000 km/ye r
il  500 aor/y r, CPU 990/h»oi
6        500 hloure/yr, CPU 260/fqwr.
/   107.57.
18/  10 on ail ltem



CI&D
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PASTORAL UNITS AND LIVESTOOE SERVICFS
Couple_ntary Investamt Reguilrentes  for Equipuentz KAI   Vaterin  Pointe
Unit         Effective          Pre-Py 2              Pro lect YeOr 2           Pro 1*ce  Yser 3           Pin  TL
Colt           Life         go.         Ag*        go.          Coet          No           Cout          No.          Coet          No.           Coet
(CPAP'000)      (yeara)                 (yeare)                (CPAP                      (CPAP0)                    <CPAFP000)                  (CYAF 000)
Sheerlege, vinch and cable                       275             5           4        3             -             -            -                          4           1,100          4            1,100
bâiler                                           220             3           1        3             1             220          _-                                       -                           220
Derrick                                        4,200            10           3        3                           -            -            -                                 -                     -
Notor                                            U0              3           3        3             2           1,600          1           800            -             -            3            2,400
Clahell grab                                  2,000             5           3        3 I/          -             -            -           -              2           4,000          2            4.000
Corpressmr                                    3.500             6           1         5            -             -            1         3,500            -             -            1            3,500
Flexible hou                                     400             2           1        2             1             400          -           -              I             400          2              800
PrefAbriceted vell mould                       1,100            10           1        3             -             -            -           -              -             -
Weil lining ehutters                             310            10           8        3             -             -            -                                        -
Boweer (2,000 liters)                            440             5           2        3             -             -            -           -              2             880          2              880
Selt-tipping bucket (50 liter.)                   50             5           4        3             -             -            -           -              4             200          4              200
Vell einking tool.                               150             3           7        3             7           1,050          -                          -             -            7            1,050
Tool box                                         110             2           1        2             I             lie                                     1             110          2              220
Tool sets                                         60             2           7        2             7             420                                     7             420         14              840
Yourubel-drive 10-12 ton truck (a)            12,000             5           1        5             1          12.000          -           -              _             _            1           12,000
Pourvteel-drive 10-12 ton truck (b)           12,000             5           1        1             -             -            _           _              _             _            _
6-8 ton truck                                  9,400             5           2        32/           -             -            -                          -                                         -
Pourwheel-drive pickups                        2.400             3           2        3             2           4,800          -           _              _                          2            4,800
Pneu_tic dril                                    190             3           1        3             1             190          -           -              -             -            I              190
Coqsr.sed air puqp                               500             3           1        3             1             500          -           -              -             -            1              500
Set of bite for drill                            330             2           1        2             1             330          _                          1             330          2              660
Plexible pipe                                    250             2           1        2             1             250          -           -              1             250          2              500
Open utorage tenk (2,000 liters)                 350             5           4        3                           -                        -              4           1400           4            1.400
Cable (400 mters)                                400             2           1        2             1             4 0                                     1             400          2              800
Total Base Costa - mHrch 1977 price                                                                            22.270                    4 300                        9A490                      36.060
Total Brase Conte - Narch 1978 prices 390                                                                                               4,623 1 0 L20                                            38,675
_/  One of the thrie motors vould heve be n         r! olytv oy e n d te replaieT i PT 3.
2/   Shoulid  *trictly. b. replaced in PY 4 but ne provision included bere.
3/   107.5%; no physicel conttngencite  mince quentittes *.d opacifications art ue11  eetabliehed.



CNAD
SECOND LIVESTOCX PEOJCI
PASTURaL UNITS AND LIVECSTOCK L SRVICEL
Comlmefantari  Inveatant Requireants for *puivntt CAhI SACUNIW Waterinae Pointe
Unit          Effective        Pre-Proleet         Pro1tY                      Pirrohtct Yogr 2           Prohet Y                   Pro1act tsar 4               TOTL
Coét            Life          No.      Aga       No.          Conet         No.          Coat          No.           Cont          No.          Coat          No.           Cont
(CPAP'OOO)        (year.)               (<yar.)               (CVAV'000)                 (C7A1000)                  (CFAPI'OO)                  (C AP'aOO)
Sheerlege, vtneh and cable                  275            5             4         S        4           1,100                         _            _             _            _             _             4        1.100
Batler                                      220            3             1         3        1             220          -                           -             -            -             -             1           220
Derrick                                  4,200            10             4         4        -              -                          _            _                          _             _            _-
ttotor                                      800            3             4        .3        4           3,200           -             -                          -            4           3,200           8        6.400
Cl   hell grab                            2.000            5             4        4         -             -            4           8,000           -             -            -             -            4         8.0SO
Copraasor                                 3,500            6             1         4        -              -           _              _            !           3,500          -             -             i        3,50
Flexible hose                               400            2             1         2        1             400           -             -            I             400          -      -      -             2           800
Prefabrieated vell would                  1,100           10             1         4                                           -            -                           -                                 -
Wall lining ahuttera                        310           10             8         4                                                         -                                                            -
Boweer (2,000 liters)                       440            5             2         4        -             _             2             8            -a     -                   -             -             2           880
Self-tipping bucket (50 liters)              50            5             4         4        -             -            4              200          -             -            -             -            4            200
*ell-ainking toola                          150            3             a         3         8          1,200           -             -            -             -            8           1,200          16        2,400
Tool box                                    110            2             1         2        1             110-          --           .             1             110          -             -             2           220
Tool met                                     60            2             8         2        a             480                                      8             480          -                         16            960
6-8 ton truck (a)                        9,400             5             2        5         2          18,800          -             _ -                         _            _             _            2        18 800
6-8 ton truck (b)                                                        I        4        -              -            1           9,400          _              _            _                          1         9 400
Pour-whael-drive pickup                   2,400            3             2         3        2           4,800          -              -           _              _            2           4,800          4         9,600
3/4 ton pickup                           1,560             3             1        3         1           1,560          -                          -             -             I           1,560          1         3,120
Pneuuatie drill                             190            3             1         3       -1             190          -              -            -             -            I             190          2            380
Coepreaaed air pu p                         500            3             1         3        1             500          -                           -             -            1             500          2         1,000
Set of bite for drill                       330            2             1        2         1             330          -             -            1              330          -             -            2           660
Plexible pipe                               250            2             1         2        1             250          -              -            I             250          _             -             2           500
Open atorage tank (2,000 liters)            350            5             4        4         -             -            4           1.400          _       -            -                    -            4         1,400
Ceble (400  tera)                          400             2             1        2         1             400          -             -            1             400           -             -            2           800
Total Basa Costa - Narch 1977
pricea                                                                                             33,540                     19,880                      5,470                      11.450                   70,340
Total Base Conta - Ma-ch 1978  >3
pricea                                                                                             36.056                     21.371                      5ô80                      -12,309                   75.616
1/ 107.51, no physical conttngenciea atne  quantitie. and opecifications &ri vel: establisha4d.
Ar



CUAD
SECoeD LIMSTOCE PROJECT
PASToh^L Ut4il'" AiD LbiT(X   £RiOE
Complaentary lnvest.at Requiramcnta for Equipuent: BATIIA Wiaterin& Pointe
Unit          Effective           Pr -t-3_              Prolact Year 3              Pro1-ct Year 4                   TOTAL
Cont            Life         No.         Asg         No.             Colt        No.           Coat          No.           Coat
(CFAYFOOO)        (yeara)                 (yeera)                    (CFA?'O0)                 (CFAF'OOO)                  (CF" 'OO)
Sh erlege, vinch and cale                           275            5            5           3           -                -          -              -            -              -
Baller                                              220            3            1           1
Derrick                                          4.200            10            5           3                                 -                                 -
Notor                                               600            3            5           3j1          3             2.400                       -            3            2,400
Clémohall grab                                   2,000             5            5           3           -                -          -              -            -              _
Comprencor (à)                                   3,500             6            1           5           -                _          1            3.500          1            3,500
Coupressor (b)                                   3,500             6            1           3            -               -          -              -            _              _
F1lxible ho&                                       400             2            2           2           1                400        1              400          2              600
Prafabricated  ell aould                         1,100            10            3           6            -               -
Well lining shutters                                310           10           10            3           -               -          -              -
fluer (2,000 liter.)                               440             5            2           3            -               -          -              -
Self-tipping bucket (50 litera)                      50            5            5           3           -                      -            -             -                    -
Vell ainking tool.                                  150            3            9           3 /         5                750        -              -            5              750
Tool box                                            110            2            1           2            1               110        -              -            1              110
Tool *et                                            60             2            9           2           5                300        4              240          9              540
Pour whasl-drtve 10-12 ton truck                12,000             5            1           3
6-8 ton truck*                                   9,400             5            2           5           2             18.800        -              -            2           18,800
Tour-tihel-drive pickup                          2,400             3            2           1                                                                   -              -
Pneuutic drill                                      190            3            2           2           -                -          2              380          2              380
Cowpraaaad air pump                                 500            3            2           2            -               -          2            1,000          2            1,000
Set of bite for drill                               330            2            2           2           2                660        -              -            2              660
Flexible pipe                                       250            2            1           2            1               250        -              -            I              250
Open atorage tank (2.000 liters)                    350            5            5           5            5             1,730         -             -            5            1,750
Cable (400m ter&)                                  400             2            1           2           1                400        -              -            I              400
Total base Costa - Narc  1977 price.                                                                                  22,820                     5,520                      31,340
Total Sant Conte -  areh 1978 pric   5!                                                                               27.757                     5,934                      33 691
Il  Tlvu of the f iv   otore vould bave bean uned for only one y'-r and vould mot b. rtplaced vith the thrre older ators.
2/    iv  of the nine units to be rcplaced in P  3.
i/ ive *cta to be replaced in PY 3, four aets in PY 4.
J    107.5S; no physical contingenciea zinc* quantitiea and apecifications arc »cl actabliahed.
t.lu



CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PAiTORIf liElTS ADD> LlVLdJ2C1  RRJIlE.
AaRr.pate Cote - Stock Idateriog Points
Project Year I          Projact Year 2           Project Year 3           Project Year 4            TOTAL            Foreigo Exhange
------------_---------------------------- (<A  million) -----------------------------------------T )
ferlouel 1/
Rame ,                                                                  12,494                   12,494                   12,494               37,482                   -
Cbart gSgutrmi                                 13,325                   13.325                   13,325                   13,325              53.300                    -
Bath& t                                                                                          14 155                  14,155               28.310                    -
Subtotal                                    13.325                   25,819                  39,974                   39,974              119,092                   _
flergl.  t
Ran_                                             -                       7,692                    7.692                    7,692               23.076                 79 Il
Chari laguirmi                                 11,338                   11.338                   11,338                   11,338              45,352                  67 j/
Batha                                                                                            12.952                   12.952               25.904                 I  j1/
Sobtotal                                    11,338                   19.030                  31,982                   31,982               94,332                  74
Vehicl. end Eoul_nt Omeratioen I
Ras.                                             -20,685                                         20,685                  20,685               62,055                  65
Char Eaguir.1                                  16,615                   16,615                   16,615                  16.615               66.460                  6S
*-tha                                                       -           -                        16 185                   16185                32,370                 65
Subtotal                                    16,615                   37,300                  53,485                   53,485              160,88                  65
Covlenmtarv  qutaimnt
Kanm.j/                                          -                      22,270            .      4.300                    9,490                36,060                 90
Char  abqui  J                                 33,540                   19,880                    5,470                  11,450               70,340                  90
Batha Il                                                                                                                 . -  -  25020  5520   31340                  9O
Sobtotal                                    33,540                  42,150                   35,590                   26,460              137.740                  90
Total boue Cont, Merch 1977 prtea.
Rani.                                            _                      63,141                  45,171                   50,361              158,673                  57
Chari leguirmi                                 74,818                 -61,158                   46,748                   52728               235,452                  58
*-tha                                                       -                                   69112                    48 812               117924                  60
TOTAL                                       74.818                  124,299                 161.031                  151.901              512,049                  58
Total 8*.. Cot~ ^Match 1978 vrle                                                                                              1 133 621  173108  294550,452                58
Physlic4 conti,mnçîap 1/
Rani.                                            -                      4,394                    4, 34                    4,394               13,182                  44
ChaIt Iguirmî                                   4.4,37                  4.437                    4,437                    4,437               17.748                  41
latha                                            -                        -                      4.654                    4.654                 9 308                 45
Subtot-l                                     4,437                  /8,831                   13,485                   13,485               40,238                  43
TOTAL                                               84.866                  142.452                  186,593                  176.779              590.690                  57
U Table 7.
j/  Calcolat*d fre  c_nt:  85X  iron. atirrtpa  nd other:  90qX  grv  l, d,  atr   OT
2/  table B%
/fable 9.
Table 10.
_ 107.51,



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
CHAD                                 Table 12
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PASTORAL UNITS AND LIVESTOCK SERVICES
Maintenance Fees - Stock Watering Points
Kanem      Chari Baguirmi        Batha       Total
Cattle  1/                                                     --('000 head)------
Ares A                                        430              300             510        1,240
Area B                                         -               160             820          980
Total                                         430              460           1,330        2.220
Concrete-lined wells 2/                          --        ----ubers)
Area A                                        401              150             250          801
Area B                                         -               120              85          205
Total                                         401              270             335        1.006
Pastoral units delineated
Pre-project 3/                                                                  33           33
Project Year 1 4/                             ------33-                                      33
Project Year 2 5-- -----33---                                                              33
Total                                                                                        99
6/
Associations of Dastoràlists constituted -
Project Year 1                                                                  25           25
Project Year 2                                ----25 ------                                  25
Project Year 3                                                 --      -----                 25
Total                                                                                        75
Associations accepting to pay
well maintenance fees 7/
Project Year 1                                                                  10           10
Project Year 2                                 ------10                         15           25
Projeot Year 3                                 ----15          10----20                     45
Project Year 4                                 -----20----- -  15-----20                     55
Fees paid  8/                                        ------(CFAF million)--------              --
Project Year 1                                                                   8            8
Project Year 2                                     --- ----                     12           20
Project Year 3                                 -----12-       -----     -8---- 16            36
Project Year 4                                          ------- ------12---- 16              44 9/
Total                                                                                      10o
1/  Annex 1, Table 1.
2/' Annex 2, Table 6.
3/  Done in the study financed under 309-CD; 33 units were delineated, with a cattle population
of 0.5 million, i.e. 15,000 head per unit.
4/  To be executed in the remainder of Area A; estimated coverage: 0.5 out of 0.73 million cattle.
5/  To be executed in the remainder of Chari Baguirmi and Batha prefectures in Area B; estimated
coverage: 0.5 out of 0.98 million cattle.
6/  Assumes eight out of each tranche of 33 pastoral units will choose not to constitute
associations.
7/  Assumes that, out of each tranche of 25 associations, those accepting to pay well maintenance
fees would number 10 in the year of their constitution, with an additional five in the two
succeeding years.
8/  CFAF 0.8 million per association per year; an average of 8 vells per association at CFAF
100,000 per well per year; about 2,000 h-ad per well; the well maintenance fee is equivalent
to CFAF 50 per head of cattle per year.
QI The annual operating and capital replacement costs of the three SERARHY bases in Kanen,
Chari Baguirmi and Batha amount to CFAF 165 million.  Revenue from fees paid in project
year 4 would be 27% of SERARHY's costs.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CREDIT
Objectives
1.        The severe drought of 1969/1973 has badly hit the livestock industry
in the Kanem while losses in the Batha and in Chari Baguirmi have been mod-
erate. In the Kanem, a predominantly sedentary population has lost too much
of its herd to make appropriate use of the existing pasture, while several
pastoralists have lost their entire herds and live on famine relief. At the
same time there is an abundant livestock population in the Batha and Chari
Baguirmi regions with surpluses of breeding stock which are largely sold for
slaughter or for export to Nigeria. Channelling part of this surplus stock
through a credit program into the Kanem would both increase livestock produc-
tion there, and allow drought-stricken pastoralists to rebuild their herds and
to regain the basis for their traditional livelihood.
2.        Credit is also required in the project area to permit enterprising
individuals or groups to buy feeder cattle for fattening before slaughter.
3.        Apart from a small credit program around Mao funded by the World
Council of Churches (US$130,000 equivalent and 140 participating families),
which started in early 1977, there is no experience with livestock credit for
farmers and pastoralists in the project area. One important finding obtained
already is the preference of farmers and pastoralists to repay the loans in
cash and not in kind. New forms of collective guarantees would need to be
developed, in order to permit the reliable but impoverished farmers and
pastoralists to rebuild their herds with credit, but to avoid giving credit
to negligent and unreliable individuals. The traditional social organization
in the project area, with strong local leaders, is largely intact and allows
guarantees and other support for poverty stricken but reliable herders.
4.        It would be premature to engage commercial or development banks in
the credit program since they have no relevant experience. The program should
be operated by a credit unit to be attached to the project. The experience
gained could be used by the Chadian Development Bank in a follow-up project.
Forms of Credit
5.        Two forms of credit would be made available to livestock producers:
(a) herd reconstitution loans, and (b) steer fattening loans. Priority would
be given to herd reconstitution loans while steer fattening loans must be
regarded as a pilot operation.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Herd Reconstitution
6.        A pastoral herd must have a  minimum size to produce adequate
subsistence, meet the family cash needs, and to allow for herd growth. Loans
to restart pastoralists who have lost their herds must therefore be sizable;
furthermore, the composition of animals purchased with the loan must produce
milk for subsistence and early cash for repayment. Loans only for breeding
females would delay the arrival of the first cash benefits too long for the
reconstituted pastoralist to let him survive because it takes about four years
until the first animals are ready for the market. A mix of different animal
categories, some of them for early resale, is indicated in order to minimize
the time in which a pastoral herd is reconstituted.
7.        Loans for herd reconstitution would typically consist of about five
breeding females on a long-term loan repayable over five years after a grace
period of five years, and about three immature males on a medium-term loan
repayable over two years, renewable for two further two-year periods. During
the following years, the purchased males would be sold for slaughter or for
further fattening, thus providing after debt repayment, cash required for the
family. Following a successful fattening cycle, livestock producers would be
eligible for a new immature purchase loan to replace the animals sold. Each
loan amount would be about CFAF 150,000 (US$610) for the purchase of breeding
females (long-term); and about CFAF 60,000 (US$245) for immature males (medium
term with new loan on repayment), totalling CFAF 210,000 (US$855) per family.
This would help to constitute a cattle herd of 5 cows, l adult male, 2 im-
mature males, 4 immature females and 3 calves over a 10 year period at a value
of about CFAF 340,000 (US$1,400) yielding annual production worth CFAF 59,000
(US$240). Considering the availability of breeding females and the work
capacity of the newly-formed credit service (para 11), loans for about 50
applicants in year l and 200 new applicants in each of the subsequent years
would be processed.
8.        A FAC-financed study of herd reconstitution in Kanem recommended
that it should be implemented through grants. The destitute position of the
stricken pastoralists, the economic saving in eliminating welfare payments,
and the long gestation period in generating cash flow for repayment constituted
good grounds for recommending grants rather than loans. Government was con-
cerned, however, that this would create an undesirable precedent and that it
would be inequitable in the eyes of those who did not benefit. The project
would, therefore, provide for loans rather than grants but in view of the
slow cash generation repayments would be spread over five years after a
five-year grace period, and no interest would be charged. The detailed terms
would be:
(a)  repayments in respect of breeding females, assuming
loan made in loan year zero (LYO) to be made in five
equal installments beginning at end LY5;
(b) repayments in respect of immature males to be made
upon sale of such animals, within two years after the
loan was granted;



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(c) APs would deposit an amount equal to 10% of the prin-
cipal amount of the loan in a special account to be
opened by the Livestock Department to be used for
covering any defaults in repayments, but to be repaid
to the association upon repayment of the entire prin-
cipal amount;
(d) strict observation of the animal health and husbandry
program of the project (vaccines, drugs, feed supple-
ments, and water for animals purchased under herd
reconstitution loans would be supplied free); and
(e) marking of all cattle.
Community and Proiect Commitment
9.        While the pastoral association would support reconstitution loans
to its members through provision of a cash deposit as a guarantee, the cus-
tomary solidarity of pastoral groups can be expected to prevent abuse by loan
recipients. The project would moreover make a tangible contribution to assist
borrowers during the first four years of a loan's life, by providing water
supplies and inputs of drugs and feed supplements for borrowers' herds without
charge.
Steer Fattening
10.       Pastoral groups and individuals would benefit from credit for the
purchase of feeder steers for fattening. Batches of immature cattle (1-2
years) would be bought in local markets; they would be grazed for 12-18 months
and then sold. The gross return on each transaction is potentially high -
of a batch of 50 animals purchased for CFAF 1,000,000 (CFAF 20,000/head) 46
should survive for sales to return CFAF 1,334,000 (CFAF 29,000/head); a gross
return of 33%. The pilot lending program would attempt to maximize community
responsibility and participation, and so develop a workable basis for an
efficient and reliable credit mechanism which could later be run with minimum
overhead costs in cooperation between the local community and a financial
institution.
11.       The terms and conditions of loans would be:
(a) All loans for approximately one year; repaid on
sale of the animals, which would be tagged;
(b) All loans guaranteed by the AP;
(c) In the case of loans to individuals, (as distinct from
loans to associations) the individual must contribute
20% of the purchase price;



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
(d) In the case of all loans, members of the community
must provide in open meeting, deposits Lu the scheme
equal to 20% of the loans granted; and repayable in
open meeting when loans are repaid. Interest on
these deposits would be 10% p.a.
(e) Interest on loans granted would initially be 15% p.a.,
and
(f)  Upon repayment on schedule, a borrower would be eligible
for a new loan.
12.       The number of new borrowers each year, for purchases of 50 head
of cattle is anticipated as: Year 1: 0; Year 2: 3; Year 3: 7; Year 4: 10;
Total: 20 new borrowers and assuming 100% renewal of loans by "old" borrowers,
33 loan transactions. Thus during the life of this project, about 1,650
feeder steers would be fattened on credit.
Management
13.       The credit component would be executed by a credit officer and three
credit assistants, stationed at Mao (Kanem and Lake), Massakory (Northern
Chari Baguirmi) and Ati (Batha). These staff would be drawn as far as pos-
sible from those who have been involved in the pilot credit program (para.
3). The project's Chief Accountant would be responsible for setting up the
accounting system and repayment mechanisms.  The Credit Officer would be
responsible for the detailed preparation of the different credit programs
including the design of credit processing forms and preparation of pastoralist
budgets, and for all aspects of day-to-day execution. Re would supervise
the assistants of the credit section and, with the Chief Accountant, prepare
and hold credit seminars for livestock department staff, the agents and
representatives of associations of pastoralists. Credit courses would be held
at the herder training center at Massakory. A key design aim throughout will
be to arrive at maximum community involvement and commitment to the schemes,
and minimum overhead costs. To this end, it may be possible that all loans be
made to APs, rather than individuals, which could reduce record keeping
considerably.
14.       Credit applications would be processed by trained veterinary field
staff. Field officers would also assist livestock producers in the purchase
of suitable breeding stock and advise on animal health and husbandry matters.
Costs
15.       Costs are detailed in Table 4 and total CFAF 247 million (US$1.0
million) of which CFAF 39 milion (16%) are for civil works and the purchase
of vehicles and equipment, CFAF 180 million (73%) for livestock credit, and
CFAF 28 million (11%) for covering the operating deficit.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
Benefits
16.       The herd reconstitution program would create a productive occupa-
tion for about 650 pastoral families now living on famine relief or on their
relatives' support. It would enable these families over eight years to
progressively raise their annual income from livestock from 0 to the national
average of about CFAF 64,000 (US$260) of which CFAF 54,000 (US$220) would
be cash income and CFAF 10,000 (US$40) subsistence. In addition, further
herd growth could be expected. Twenty pastoral groups or individuals would
benefit from steer fattening loans eventually handling about 1,000 animals
per year.
17.       Institutionally, the subproject would seek to develop an effective
instrument to give credit to livestock producers, and to which the producers
would give their support and commitment. Provided it works, the credit unit
could be handed over to the BDT at the end of this project, in order to serve
as the nucleus of an enlarged credit program in a follow-up livestock project.
This unit would already have some finance available from the ongoing lending
operation.



SZCOND LIVEsTMCI PKOECT
Nerd Raconstitution Model (100 Credita)
1          2           3           4            5           6           7         .8             9           10          il          12
Coas
Beglnsing of Ytar                                     0        480         460         427          380         598         445          486         516          526         541         566
rurchbaeu/Rapl"cuntl                               500         20           15          10           9         -            -           -           -            -           -            -
+  rafers                                          -          -           -            -                        li3         114         110           94         102         114          123
-Deatha                                             20         15          '10           9            9           C          i            12          12          13           13          14
-Cu11ed                                            -           25           38          48          54           56          62          68           32          74           76          79
On hand year end                                   480        460          427         380          398         445         486          516         526          541         566         596
Heifers. 3-4 Yeats
Beginning of year                                  -          -            -            74          115         116         114           96         104          116         126         133
- Deathe s                                                     -                         2            2           2           2            2           2            2           3           3
On hand year end                                   -          -            -            72          113         114         110           94         102          114         123         130
Reifera. 2-3 yesrs
Beginaing of Year                                  -          -             76         117          118         116          94          106         118          129         136         139
- Deaths                                           -          -              2           2            2           2           2            2           2            3           3           3
on haod y-ar end                                   -          -             74         115          116         114          96          104         116          126         133         136
Reifers, 1-2 tears
Beginsing of year                                  -            81         122         123          121          98         110          123         134          142         145         150
- Deaths                                                        5            5           5            5           4           4            5           5            6           6           6
On hbnd ye-r end                                   -            76         117         118          116          94         106          118         129          136         139         144
-alves 0-1 Yestr
Calvos bors                                        250        325          389         284          231         259         289          316         335          342         352         368
- Females born                                     125        162          154         142         115          129         145          158         167         171          176         184
-De-ths                                             44         40           31          21          17           19          22           24          25          26           26          28
On hand year ccd                                    81        122          123         121           98         110         123          134         142          145         150          156
- Males bors                                       125        163          155         142          116         130         145          158         168         171          176         184
- Desths                                            44 -       41           31          21           17          20          22           24          25          24           26          28
on hsnd year end                                    81         122         124         121           99         110         123          134         143          145         150          156
Males, 1-2 rears
Bleginul6 of Yeat                                  -           81          122         124          121          99         110          123         134         143          145         150
+ Porthases                                        300         150         150         150          -           -           -            -           -            -           -            -
-Dleaths                                            27         14           il          il            5           4           4            5           5           6            6           6
- On hand year end                                 273        217         261          263         116           95         106          118         129         137          139         144
Males 2-3 vesto
Beginning of year                                  -          273          217         261          263         116           95         106         118          129         137          139
-fDeaths                                           -            8            4           5            5           2           2            2           2            3           3            3
- Sales                                            -          136         -            -           -            -           -           -            -           -            -           -
on hand year end                                   -          129          213         256          258         114           93         104         116          126         134          136
Males. 3-4 reats
Beginning of year                                  -          -            129         213          256         258          114          93         104         116          126          134
-Deaths                                            -          -              3           4            5           5           2            2           2            2           3            3
- sales                                            -                       126         160          128         129          57           46          52          58           63          67
On had year-ed                                     -                       -            49          123         124           55          45          50           56          60           64
Males.   er 4 Ysars
BSginaisg of yoer                                  -          -            -           -            -            20          20           20          23           26          28           30
+ Tranfers                                         _           _           -           _             49         123          124          55          45           50          56           60
-Deaths                                                                                                           3           3            2           2            2           2           2
-Sales                                             -          -           -           '             28          120         121           50          40          46           52          56
on hand ye-r ed                                    -           -           -           -             20          20           20          23          26           28          30           32
Total Animal No.bera
Total Head                                         915      1,126        1,339       1 495        1 457       1,340       1 318        1,390       1,479       1,554        1,624       1,694
Total Anisal Units 3/                              753        882        1,092       1,253        1,260       1,120       1,072        1,122      11,961       1,264        1 324        1 382
Total Sales:                                       -          161          164         208          210         305         246          164         164         178          191          202
Techctal Coefficients
Calelog rate, h                                     50          65          65          65           65        65             65          65          65           65          65           65
Mortality rate, 7,
-Calves                                             35          25          20          15           15          15           15          15          15           15          15           15
-Cattle, 1-2 years                                   9           6           4           4            4           4            4           4           4            4           4            4
-Cattle, e-r 2 yars                                  4           3           2            2           2           2            2           2           2            2           2            2
Co, culliîg rate                                   -             5           8           il          14          14           14          14           14          14           14          14
Sales cf -ales, 2-3 Y.ears                                      50
Sales of sales, 3-4 years                           -          -           10           75          50          50           50          50           50          50          50           50
Offtake rate, Sales of sales  or 4 yoor.            -          14.3        12.2         13.9        14.4        22.8         18.6        11.8        l.l         11.5        11.8
.1' After Yeat 1, repla.enenta ex pastoral assosijtios for first four years to restore herd n.obers by start of year.
2    As of Year 3:  4% of coms and bulling heifers, rising to 4.5% in Year 12.
3/ Total head minus calves.



- 58 -
CHAD                                                                         ANNEX 3
Table 2
SECOND LIVESTQCK PROJECT
CREDIT
Pasto>ralists' Cash Flow from  Herd Reconsitution   1/
Years        1         2          3           4           5           6           7           8           9          10           il
--------------------(CFAF '000) ------------------------------
Inlot o:
Loans Received
Breeding Cows                 15,000      -           -           -
Immature Males  2/             6,000   3,000       3,000        3,000         -           -           -            -           -           -           -
Sales Proceeds
Froc Breeding  3/                 -       625         950       2,000       1,910       5,312       7,819       4,922        4,864       5,220       5,631
Imsature Males  4/               -      3,944       4,032       4,320       4,416       4,416         -            -           -           -
Total Inflou                     21,000   7,569       7,982       9,320       6,326       9,728       7,819        4,922       4,864       5,220       5,631
Outflou:
Loan Repayeents
8reeding Cows  5/                -        -           -           -           -         3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000          -
Imaature Males  6/               -      3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000         -           -            -           -           -
Purchases
Breeding Cous                 15,000      -           -           -           -
5mssture Males  7/             6,000   3,000        3,000       3,00          -           _           _           _            -           -           -
Total Outflow                   21,000   6,000        6,000       6,000       3,000       6,000       300(         3,000       3,000       3,000
Surplus:
Breeding Cous
Annual                            -       625         950       2,000       1,910       2,312       4,819        1,922       1,864       2,220       5 631
Coumlative                        -       625       1,575       3,575       5,485       7,797      12,616      14,538      16,402      18,622      24,253
Immature Males
As.sual                           -       944       1,032       1,320       1,416       1,416          -           -           -           -           -
Cumulative -                              944       1,976       3,296       4,712       6,128       6,128       6,128       6,128       6,128        6,128
Total
Annual                            -     1,569       1,982       3,320       3,326       3,728       4,819        1,922       1 864       2,220       5,631  8/
Cumulative                       -      1,569       3,551       6,871      10,197      13,925      18,744      20,666      22,530      24,750      30,381
l/  Per 100 loans, or 500 breeding females and 300 issature males.
2/  300 head at CFAF 20,000/head in FYI; subsequently  ses loans received as old loans are paid off from sales proceeds.
3/ Table 3.
4/  One half of each batch of immature males sold off at about 12 months, and the remainder at about 24 months; 8% mortality, CFAF 29,000/head.
5/ Five years grace period, then five equal annuel instalments.
6/  Batches sold and repayments due as at 4/.
7/  Assumes all recipients uill opt to renew loans for purchase of imsature males.
8/  Average cash surplus of 100 present herds is CFAF 5.4 million (para. 2.08).



CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CREDIT
Gross Benefits from 100 Herds and from Total Scheme.
Unit
Value       1         2          3           4           5            6            7            8           9          10          il
-----------------------------------------(CFAF '000)--------------------------------------------------------------
Per 100 Herds 1/
Breeding Unit and Imature Hales
Cull cows                            25       -        625         950       1,200        1,250       1,400        1,550        1,700       1,800       1,850       1,900
Males, 2-3 y-ars                     29       -      3,944         -           -            -            -            -            -           -          -           -
Males, 1-4 years                     32       -        -         4,032       5,120       4,096        4,128        1,824         1,472      1,664       1,760       2,016
Males, over 4 years                  35       -         -          -           -            980        4,200        4,445        1,750       1,400       1,610      1,715
Subtotal: Hule  proct.d                       -      4,569       4,982       6,320       6,326        9,728        7,819        4,922       4,864       5,220       5,631
Milk (per 1,000 litera)  Z/            25     750        975         927         852         693          m            867          948       1,005       1,026       1,056
Benefits of Herd Reconstitution
Meat
Year 1:  50 herds                             -      2,284       2,491       3,160       3,163        4,864        3,095         2,461       2,432      2,610       2,815
Year 2:  200 herds                            -        -         9,138       9,964       12,640      12,652        19,456       15,638      9,844       9,728      10,440    '
Year 3:  200 herds                            -        -           -         9,138        9,964       12,640       12,652       19,456      15,638      9,844       9,728
Year 4:  200 herds                            -        -           -           -          9,138        9,964       12,640       12,652      19,456      15,638      9,844
Subtotal                                      -      2,284      11,629      22,262      34,905       40,120       47,843       50,207      47,370      37,820      32,827
Milk
Year 1:  50 herds                            375       487         463         426          346          388          433          474         502         513         528
Year 2:  200 herds                            -      1,500       1,950       1,854        1,704        1,386        1,544        1,734       1,896       2,010       2,052
Year 3:  200 herds                            -        -         1,500       1,950        1,854        1,704        1,386        1,554       1,734       1,896       2,010
Year 4:  200 herds                            -        -           -         1,500        1,950        1,854        1,704        1,386       1,554       1,734      1,896
Subtotal                                    375      1,987       3,913       5,730       5,854         5,332        5,077        5,148      5,686        6,153   _  6,486
Total Herd Reconstitution                      375     _,271      15,542      27,992       40,759       45,452       52,920       55,355     53,0%        43,973     39,313
Benefits of Steer Fattening  3/
Year 3:  3 loans, re-lent                     -        -         4,002       4,002       4,002         4,002        4,002        4,002       4,002       4,002       4,002
Year 4:  7 loans, re-lent                     -        -           -         9,338        9,338        9,338        9,338        9,338       9,338       9,338       9,338 I 
Year 5:  10 loans, re-lent                    -        -           -           -         13,340       13,340       13,340       13,340      13,340      13,340      13,340  
Total Steer Fattening                                              4.002      13,340       26.680       26,680                        80      26,680      26,680      26,680
Total Gross Benefits from
Total Credit Scheme                            375                19,544      41,332       67,439       72,132       79.600       82,035      79,736      70,653      65.993
1/ Based herd model data at Table 1,
2/  120 liters/cow/lactation, other technical coefficients as at Table 1; CFAF 25/liter.
3/ Per loan: 46 head for sale at CFAF 29,000/head; 8% mortality.



CmAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CREDIT
Investment and Credit Costs
Unit      Unit        Year 1                     Year 2              Year 3                    Year 4                   Total                   FE
Cost     No.      Cost           No.      Cost          No.        Cost          No.        Cost          No.         Coet
------------------------= ---------                                     CFAF,000 ---------------------------
A.  Investment Costs
lousing for Credit Assistants             85 m2    6,800    -          -              3      20,400           -          -             -          -             3        20,400          50
Office building       2/                 100 mZ    7,000    1        7,000            -         _-                                                -             1         7,000          45
office Equipment                                   L. Sum            1,500            -         -             -          -             -          -                       1,500          90
4 wheel drive vehicle                    No.       2,400    1        2,400            -         -             -          -             -          -             1         2,400          90
Motor cycles                             No.         300    1           300           3         900           -          -             -                        4         1.200          90
Subtotal                                                        11,200                   21,300                                               - -                   32,500           55
B. Credit Granted
Herd Reconstitution                      No.         210   50       10,500         200       42,000         200       42,000         200       42,000         650       136,500           0
Steer Fattening  3/                       No.         800    -                        3        2,400           7       5 600          10        8 000          20        16,000           o
Subtotal                                                        10,500                   44,400                  47,600                   50,000                   152,500            o
C.  Operaeing Deficit                                                    3,783                    6,450                    7,110                    6,270                    23,613          34
Total Base Cost, M«h 1977 prices                                    25,483                   72,150                   54,710                   56,270                   208,613          12
Total Base Coat, March 197&1 prices 5/                              27,562                   77,881                   58,813                  60,490                    224,746          12        é 
Physical contingencies, 10%                                          2,756                    7,788                    5,881                    6,049                    22,474                    a >
Total Costs                                                     30,318                   85,669                  64,694                   66,539                   247,220           12
1/  CFAi 80,000/m 2
2/ tFAF 70,000/m2
S/  Assuming all loans for 80% of 1,000,000.
4/   Table 5.
5/   Civil ,orks 109,;; Other 107,.5%%.



CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CREDIT
Operating Costs and Receipts
Year
Unit      Unit Cost         1          2            3            4         Total        FFE
----------------------(CFAF '000)------------------------------             (Z)
Operating Costs
Credit Officer                         man-year         990           990        990          990          990        3,960        0
Credit Assistants                      man-year         353            -      1,059         1,059        1,059        3,177        0
Insurance for Staff 1/                                                 61         98           98           98          355        0
Staff Training                                       Lump Sum         400        400          400          400        1,600       50
Office Supplies and Operation                        Lump Sum         500        500          500          500        2,000       65
Vehicle Operation 2/                   '000 km           70         1,050      2,100        2,100        2,100        7,350       65
Motocycle Operation 3/                 '000 km            4            32        128          128          128          416       65
Travel Allowances 4/                                                  750        750          750          750        3,000        0
Office and Housing Maintenance                                        -          425       1,445         1,445        3,315       45
Total Operating Costs 5/                                            3,783     6,450         7,470        7,470       25,173       34
Receipts
Steer Fattening Loan Interest                                         -         -             360        1,200 6/    1,560
Herd Reconstitution Repayments                                        -                       -            -   7/       -
Total Receipts                                                        -          -            360        1,200        1,560
Operating Deficit                                                      3,783      6,450        7,110        6,270-   23,613           34
1/  3.5% of salaries and allowances.
2/  30,000 km/year, 50% only in PY1.
3/  8,000 km/year.
4/  CFAF 5,000/day in field for credit officer, 150 days/year.
5/ 5% of construction, equipment and furniture costs.
6/ CFAF 2.4 million/year in PY5 and thereafter when ail loans outstanding.
7/ CFAF 1.5 million in PY5 and CFAF 7.2 million in PY6 arising from cessation of renewals of loans for immature males;
repayments of loans for breeding cows begin in PY6, with receipts of CFAF 1.5 million.  Beginning in PY6, there will be   >
an operating surplus of CFAF 3.6 million /year although there will be an operating deficit of that amount in PY5.
5>4
Lu x



ANNEX 4
- 62 -                       Page 1
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TRAINING
Training Needs
1.        The part of the project that would provide a package of improved
services to organized pastoral groups in the Sahelian Zone includes three
innovations with which pastoralists and field staff would have to be famil-
iarized.  These innovations, which would constitute the basis of the training
that would have to be provided, include:
(a) delineation of pastoral units, constitution of associa-
tions of pastoralists, and the effectiveness of the
associations. Livestock Department field staff,
representatives and committee members of associations,
and associations' agents would require training in the
concepts, their application and their possible roles.
(b) animal and pastoral productivity. Livestock Department
field staff would require new short courses in animal
husbandry, basic nutrition and range management as well
as refresher courses in animal health; the associations'
agents would require training in the same fields with
the emphasis on elementary tasks that they could perform
themselves and on when and how to seek advice from
departmental field staff.
(c) credit. Livestock Department field staff and associations'
agents would require training in the kinds of credit avail-
able, the obligations of both parties to a credit agreement,
and the processing of credit applications.
Existing Facilities
2.        The current USAID-financed Herder Training Project includes pro-
vision for the construction and operation of a training center at Massakory,
for refresher courses for Livestock Department staff, for scholarships
and for technical assistance in range management. The center was planned
mainly to provide nine-month courses to selected pastoralists from the
vicinity of Massakory. Construction is nearly completed but field investi-
gations have concluded that pastoralists would not leave their herds for
such an extended period. In addition, it is now generally agreed that,
even if pastoralists would be willing to attend such courses, the utility



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
of such extended courses is very doubtful. Refresher courses for field staff
have, by contrast, been started and the third course was held in mid-1977.
Three courses per year are held on a rotational basis in Abeche, Bongor and
N'Djamena in vacation periods; courses are given by senior staff of the
Livestock Department and the range management specialist but their content is
too heavily concentrated on animal health and the range of subjects covered is
too broad. Some scholarship funds have been used, in particular for three men
undergoing training in audio-visual methods in Abidjan; the current project
provides for acquisition and operating costs of audio-visual mobile units on
their return.
The Training Program
3.        The training program for pastoralists' representatives, committee
members and agents, of which the content is indicated at Annex 2, paras 12-13,
takes into account the conclusions of the field investigations mentioned at
para. 2 above. All training would be provided at the Massakory center whose
existing boarding facilities can accommodate 30 people. Curricula would be
developed by the center's staff, of whom the director was appointed in late
1977, and by the Director, Chief Operations Officer and Chief Accountant of
the proposed project, as well as the existing technical assistants in range
management.  Courses would be given by the center's own staff, project staff,
and range management specialists and consultants to be recruited in N'Djamena.
Livestock Department field staff would receive their training in the existing
format of two-week refresher courses for which the existing curricula would
be revised by those senior staff who have already been involved in giving
courses as well as the Director, Chief Operations Officer, Chief Accountant
and range management specialists. Allied to the formal training, the audio
visual mobile unit program would aim at disseminating knowledge of key proj-
ect activities to pastoralists.
Financing
4.        The existing USAID project has an appropriation of US$2.4 million
that is not yet obligated. This sum is sufficient to finance all training
activities envisaged through 1981. Operating costs of the Massakory center,
including lodging and transport for 1,200 trainee man-weeks in groups of 30
trainees, and operating costs of the mobile audio-visual units, would be
US$135,000 per year. Costs of in-service training of Livestock Department
field staff, based on the first three courses, would be US$50,000 per year.
Total training costs for four years would be US$740,000 at March 1977 prices.
Government and USAID have prepared final details for the obligation of the
funds that have been appropriated and no obstacle to inclusion of the train-
ing component indicated above is anticipated.
Management Seminars
5.        This subject is discussed at Annex 7 and budgeted under Organization
and Management.



-64 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 1
CHIAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ABATTOIR EQUIPMENT
Background
1.        The Farcha Abattoir and Cold Store, located on the outskirts of
N'Djamena, was established as a public commercial body in 1958. It was com-
mercially viable until 1971, with slaughtering and refrigeration being under-
taken on a fee basis for local and export meat traders. Slaughterings for
local consumption have grown steadily, although with marked fluctuations after
droughts, and reached 4,200 tons in 1976. Slaughterings for export were
stable until 1967 and then increased rapidly to 11,500 tons in 1971; since
then, exports declined sharply and had fallen to 2,300 tons in 1976 (Table 1).
Before 1971, the meat export trade had been handled mainly by private expatri-
ates who had close commercial links in the capital cities to the south. The
leading export company owned substantial refrigerated storage capacity which
was obsolete by 1971. This company withdrew from the trade in the following
year because of reluctance to undertake a large re-equipment program in the
face of uncertain market prospects. Government took a more optimistic view
of market prospects and obtained FAC assistance for a first expansion program
consisting of a second slaughter chain, with a capacity of 35 carcasses or
about 5 tons per hour, and an increase in refrigerated storage capacity to
140 tons per week; at the same time, Government required the abattoir to enter
the meat export trade on its own account. Since 1971, the abattoir's commer-
cial performance has been poor: returns from export trading have not covered
costs and such trading was not stopped until recently; the facilities have
been run at full capacity with associated high cost levels despite a sig-
nificant fall in throughput (Table 1); and debt-collection performance has
also been poor.
Current Market Prospects
2.        Government requested the appraisal mission to consider finance for
a second expansion program, which included replacement of some equipment in
poor condition. The mission found, as indeed the French authorities had
earlier, that it was not possible to support this request given current market
prospects. Prospects for exports by air deteriorated in the last few years
for several reasons. First, in the aftermath of the 1973 drought, when about
one-third of the cattle in the Sahel was lost, live cattle prices rose sharp-
ly.  Demand in the coastal cities remained firm and pastoralists began to
reconstitute their herds; prices of slaughter stock in Chad have about tripled
since before the drought. Second, air freight costs increased sharply because
of the oil price increases. Third, the main non-African meat exporters have



- 65 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
seized the opportunity created by fast-rising prices in the coastal cities and
have begun to land frozen meat regularly; the retail distribution system has
adapted quickly and consumer taste is changing. In sum, exports by air from
Chad are squeezed between high slaughter-stock prices, the ceiling imposed by
prices of competing supplies to the coastal cities by sea and increased air
freight rates. It is difficult to foresee an early reversal of the recent
deterioration in prospects for meat exports by air. Government is nonetheless
keen to promote meat exports by air and has recently set up a mixed company,
SOTERA, to whom a monopoly of meat exports has been given. SOTERA would not
only attempt to regain the export markets that have been lost in the south
but also explore new markets in the North African coastal cities and else-
where.
Feasible Actions
3.        Until SOTERA has proven its ability to export profitably, it would
be premature to expand the abattoir's slaughtering or storage capacity. It
would however be justified to renew some equipment which, if not replaced,
would cause the abattoir to discontinue its operations and thereby eliminate
the only modern slaughterhouse facility available to the N'Djamena market.
This limited investment should be accompanied by certain measures to reduce
operating costs and improve management and accounting practices. The project
would therefore finance the equipment required for the rebuilding of the
four compressors, for a complete overhaul of the main switchboard, and a new
ice-making plant. Installation of all equipment would be undertaken by
the abattoir's own engineering section, which is fully competent to handle
the work. Detailed costs of the equipment, amounting to CFAF 32 million
(US$131,000) are at Table 2. In order to reduce operating costs, it is
recommended to operate no more cold storage or slaughter chain capacity than
needed at any one time; these actions would about halve current expenditures
on personnel and electricity. An assurance was obtained during negotiations
that Government would by March 31, 1979, introduce measures satisfactory to
IDA designed to improve the management of the Abattoir's operations and
finances; these measures would include the two actions specified above and
the following financial practices:
(a) a statement of operating expenses and income for the
proceeding six months' period, together with an
analysis of debtors classified according to the age
of the debts outstanding, would be presented to the
abattoir's board of directors at least twice every
year; the project's Chief Accountant would attend
the portions of these meetings dealing with financial
matters in an advisory capacity;
(b) at the end of each fiscal year and to the extent per-
mitted by Chadian fiscal legislation, provision would



- 66 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
be made at 100% for all irrecoverable debts and a doubt-
ful debt provision of 75% would be made for all debts
in arrears for more than six months;
(c) the expected working life of all capital assets would
be reviewed, and asset book values and charges for
depreciation revised in the light of this review;
(d) the funds provided to Government by IDA for abattoir
re-equipment would be made available to the abattoir
as equity rather than as a loan;
(e) taking into account (b), (c) and (d), the capital
structure of the abattoir would be reviewed by Govern-
ment, with a view to eliminating all or part of the
item "accumulated losses" in the balance sheet; and
(f) the board of directors would set for each year a clear
commercial objective for the enterprise 1/ and would
approve budgets and review results in the light of such
an objective.
An assurance was also obtained that Government would periodically review
with IDA the abattoir's financial condition in order to assess the scope
for establishing a sinking fund for future re-equipment.
Benefits
4.        The principal benefit would be that provision of equipment for
renovation of compressors and the switchboard would permit continued use, over
the next 7-8 years, of the substantial sunk costs in buildings, equipment and
trained local staff.   The renovation would enable current throughput to be
maintained and the existing refrigerated storage capacity of 140 tons/week
would remain potentially available should the export market revive. At the
same time the proposed actions would help to reduce (and probably eliminate)
the operating deficit and the proposed practices would improve the abbatoir's
accounting and the quality of the information provided to management. The
actions and the practices taken together should permit a significant improve-
ment in the financial viability of the abattoir.
1/   Such as a surplus after depreciation of X% on capital and reserves, or
Y% of revenue.



CAUD
SECOND LIVESTGK PROJECT 
AATtOIR EQUIPfENT
SlauRhterinRu at N'Dlamana Abattoir
Average
1964/67        1968         1969        1970         1971        1972         1973         1974        1975         1976
--------- -------- --------- -------- ------------    tons    -------~----  - --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -  
Local consumption                                  3,000           3,463       3,874       3,943        3,603        3,342       4,248        4,119        3,130       4,192
Export                                             4. 500          7.249       9959.   10.452          11.545        6.250       3,735        6,879        3.556        2.335
Total                                          7,500          10,718      13,833      14,395       15,148        9,592       7,983       11,198        6,686        6,527
Cattle                                             6,800           9,937      13,072      13,602       14,249        8,602        6,952      10,300        5,953        5,772
Calves                                               100             158         185         190          203          213          187         198          151          104
Sheep                                                275             358         336         323          348          359         408          359          266          267
Goata                                                140             105          90         107          151          177          203         112          135          218
Pigas                                                 65              75          80         104          107          129          138         141          122           92
Borges                                               120              85          70          69           90          112           95          88           89           74
7,500         10,718       13,833     14,395        15,148       9,592        7,983       11,198       6,686        6,527
Sources: LivestockDparten t ,=Fr chA _at -tr.
Sources:  Livestock Department, Farcha Abattoir.;



-68 -                                 ANNEX 5
CHAD                                  Table 2
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ABATTOIR EQUIPMENT
Equipumnt Costa
Unit             Quantity          Total
Cost
(CFAF '000)                         (CFAF '000)
Compressors 1/
Ihtake valves                                        65                16               1,040
Exhaust valves                                       94                 16              1,504
Seating heads and joints                             77                16              1,232
Pistons                                             165                16               2,640
Cylinder jackets                                    252                16               4,032
Piston rode                                          26                16                 416
-Bearings                                             36                 16                576
Output control valves                                70                16               1,120
Other parts  2/                                                                           645
Air Freight to N'Djamena                                                                  570
Subtotal.                                                                       13,775
Electric Switchboard  3/                                                                1,300
Ice-mak±ng plant 4/
Poaer unit 5/                                     2,400                  1              2,400
Atmoapheric refrigeration unit                      800                  1                800
Ice-making tank  6/                               3,800                  1              3,800
Moulda  7/                                             7               120                840
PiPes, valves, electricity connection                                                   1,200
Transport to N'Djamena   8/                                                             1,820
Subtotal                                                                        10.900
Total Base Costs:  March 1977 prices                                                   25,975
Total Base Costa:  March 1978 prices  9J                                               27,923
Physical contingencies  10/                                                             4,189
Total                                                                                  32,112
1/  Four compressors (four cylinder, direct-coupled, 725rpm, 60 HP motor) to be  re-built.
2/ Includes CFAF 465,000 for spare parts.
3/  Complete overhaul of the switchboard that governs 19 cold rooms;  replacement of circuit-
breakers  and allwirink; replacement of change-over switch to the standby  generator.
4/ New plant, with autonomous refrigeration unit.
5/ 25 HP electric motor, vith switchboard and condenser.
6/  With subxerged evaporator, and winch and accessories for handling blocks of ice.
7/ For 25 kg blocks.
8/ 20Z of ex-factory unit costs.
9/ 107.5 Z
10/ 15Z on all items.



- 69-                                        »UUSX 
Table 3
CUD
SIC071  LIJlStO  POJECT
abattoir finaneiel Stacemets
CI 1971         Ci 1973          CY 1974         Ci 1975          CY 1976
sA UUICE SEFT 17 AS   in or mua
fixad Aeate - Grosa                          432             695              707              712             722
lesa daprîciatioa                            205             272              3D              336              363
plad A4sèce - Net il                         227             423              402             376              359
Debtocs - Groas                               26               28             110              U5              139
l1   dolibt£ul/bad                             1               3                3               9               39
Debtors - Net                                 25               25             107              106             10. Y
SadoryTaeete                                   8              13               18              16                7
C" 6hàa mk                                    40               6                4                5               7
TOTAL ASSITS                                 300             467              531             503              473
Short Ter Liabil±tiee
- Trneury 4/                                 5              45               87             137              117
- Suppliera                                  7              16               45              *3               62
- Othr I/                                    2               4               12              33               30
Sub-totol                                14               65             144              213              219
ota  fr. SDT 6J_                                                     75       70                              46
TOTAL LimaiTIES                               14             160              219             273              265
Aseets Laeo Labiluti                         286             ut              àâ               la               20
tAprac ed bp Capital 1                       293             650              450             450              450
Leu  Aaslatad Lessaa                           7             123              138             220              242
286             327              31223                            2668
oPIIATIO- REsTrs pu TUA  1/
Salas:
West   Exporta                                                              435            3l0                15
-Local                                                                Z6               40              17
Ici                                                         10               12               9                8
Rides  d  3y-Produte                         3               2                6               3
Sub-total - Sale                             3              12             479              153               41
Sl-ugbtarlsa ç/                             91              52               57              61              106
afritsertiot  Md Palutsatimo                76              39               53              55               48
Sntdrr                                       7               6             __                 6                6
Sub-total - Pesâ                           174              97              129             122              160
TOTAL sBVoI                                 177             109              608             275              201
Costa:
P.reb»«o of H c  #d P-ckl4
Muetris                                                                  386             136               27
Trmewportation                               2               1               26               5                2
&lectriCityq                                24              30               38              47               43
Pereonnl                                    68              50               64              59               55
Suadry                                      41              25               43              55               76
Goe,t Leviez                                22              17               33              33               15
DOPr ci±tion                                28              32               33              32               34
TOtAL COSTS                                  1S5             135              623             367              252
U»pertlag deSait                                             fl (46>          (35>             (92)            <S)
Ixre,ial I.t_a                              ___              .LJ                                8               2
naîl positio Ua
Source: unaudited  manuel accouati.
Some  fimd taiets pronided by Govrm          ot a         1 capital Contribution.  Dapreciatio  pollcy  * pecially
la  niatial yeta bai bca  iacoo isteat; total depraciatios to date La probably inesificieat relsriva
to expaccad vorhia lif of   *ot
Y   la 1976. 38 clienta totallas CdtW  68 million hed debt  os  oathly accou-te ov-r ors year old:
dcobtifvlbd debt provieion la tCerafore coosidered lneufficilet.
/  LabilitY te Treaury la esly cm sccomt of Covernasnt ileugjter levy cbrged to abbatoir  aere
ad  ot yet pai"  or tc  Tnaury.
t ialy lStertt ovin  on IIDT lot.
6   This lota cl_ified in sccountLu se mediu  tors 1973-1975; lons tara iL 1976.
7/  Sold by  overt .o  ChaS.
8/ Tbe alehter fes* rectivd do sot ca-relate  11 to acetl *lauihtsie *hon at Table 1,  hbch
ircluda 0laugheitat   for outsiders *o  il11 *a slhteriga  rl.t-d  to tCh  sbbtoir trading
ia mat on ite oua  ccouat.
9I  Goveraant elaugCter leviez of CJAF 21 million relatin  to 1975 year converted to abbatoir revenue.



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TSETSE ERADICATION AND SURVEYS
Background
1.        The presence of tsetse fly in the south of the country has been and
continues to be an obstacle to livestock development. Livestock productivity
is reduced and there is some mortality both in the resident cattle population
and in the sahelian cattle who are infected during transhumance. Three
species of fly are found in Chad:  g. fuscipes in the south-west, g. mortisans
in the south and south-east, and g. tachinoides along watercourses stretching
northwards. A map of tsetse fly distribution in the country was made in 1965
by IEMVT but, after the drought of the early 1970s, it now requires updating.
2.        Chad, like Nigeria since 1964 and Cameroon since 1961, began tsetse
fly eradication in 1971 and intends to pursue it. The first campaign, under-
taken by IEMVT as part of the Assale-Serbewel project and financed by FAC,
concerned the area along the lower Chari between N'Djamena and Lake Chad
infested by g. tachinoides. The area was sprayed during two dry seasons
1973-1974 and is naturally protected against reinfestation by the absence of
vegetation along the Chari just downstream from N'Djamena.  After eradication
of the fly, the livestock extension activities of the Assale Serbewel project
were started. In 1975, IEMVT issued a completion report on the eradication
program, which outlines the problems encountered, the technical results and
the detailed costs; this report provides a sound basis for the preparation of
similar eradication programs. The total cost was CFAF 199 million for the
treatment of 12 500 ha along 500 km of river bank, which thereby liberated
about 12,500 km of grazing land. The total cost per km of river bank was
CFAF 400,000 of which the cost of spraying was 50%. The average cost was
CFAF 16,000 per ha sprayed and CFAF 160 per ha liberated.
3.        Based on a 1974 survey of tsetse fly distribution in the middle
Chari valley, Government has prepared a project to extend the 1973-1974
eradication campaign south-eastwards from N'Djamena. The preparation report
envisages installation of a semi-natural barrier between Miltou and Damtar
to prevent reinfestation by g. tachinoides. The barrier is also at the
natural northern limit of g. mortisans along the Chari. No updating of the
1965 tsetse fly distribution map has been undertaken elsewhere, notably in
the cotton zone, despite the utility of doing so in view of the intentions
of Cameroon to extend its tsetse eradication effort in the north of its
territory.
4.        For the cotton zone as well as the middle Chari valley, aerial
photos at 1:50,000 were made in 1975. These photos would, among many uses,
facilitate future tsetse prospection work.



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
Eradication and Surveys
5.        The project would finance (a) in the area between N'Djamena and
Miltou, or the Middle Chari, a program of eradication of g. tachinoides and
preparation of a land-use plan for the area, and (b) in the Cotton Zone, other
tsetse eradication programs or activities, including updating of the tsetse
distribution map.
6.        For the Middle Chari Valley, the land-use plan which would be
undertaken in PY1 would assess (a) the benefits to be expected from tsetse
eradication, (b) the complementary costs in animal health, husbandry and other
activities required to make full use of the area freed from tsetse and (c) the
environmental costs, if any, arising from tsetse eradication. The planning
team would consist of a human geographer, a livestock specialist, an agrosto-
logist, an agronomist, a hydrogeologist and an economist. Field work would
take two months and report writing a further two months. Detailed costs,
amounting to CFAF 40 million (US$163,000), are shown at Table 3, in which
the members of the planning team are costed at international consultant rates
although it is hoped that the University of Chad would be able to put together
a suitably qualified team at lower cost.
7.        Eradication of g. tachinoides in the middle Chari would be under-
taken in PY2-4 under the direction of a tsetse specialist. Field work would
be organized through one flycatching team and four spraying teams. The former
would undertake sample controls in those areas which were infested according
to the 1965 map but which were found to be liberated by the 1974/75 survey,
would undertake other sampling as required to permit delineation of the
three-year eradication program, and would also, after the eradication, under-
take sample controls in the liberated areas. Each spraying team would consist
of a team leader, a foreman, 12 hand sprayer operators, six water sprayer
operators and 24 laborers. Detailed costs, amounting to CFAF 475 million
(US$1,939,000), are shown at Table 4. Complementary investments identified
by the land-use planning team as required to make full use of the area freed
from tsetse would be envisaged as a component of a follow-up project.
8.        For the Cotton Zone, updating of the 1965 map would be undertaken
in the PY1 dry season. The work would be directed by a tsetse specialist who
wo,uld be assisted by a senior technician. They would organize the field work
through two chiefs of operations who would each supervise two team leaders:
each team would include a foreman and five flycatchers.  Each team leader
would be supplied with a four-wheel-drive vehicle, camping and entomological
equipment and a radio transceiver. Detailed costs, amounting to CFAF 126
million (US$514,000), are shown at Table 1. After completion of the up-
dated map, a consultant would be recruited in PY2 to prepare a ten-year tsetse
eradication program, including technical, environmental, managerial and finan-
cial aspects. The consultant would engage one flycatching team (team leader,
foreman and five flycatchers) in order to enable him to undertake further
field surveys that the preparation of the eradication program might require.



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
In addition, since no new eradication exercise would appear to be economically
justifiable if limited to Chadian territory only, the consultant would travel
to Cameroon, CAE and Sudan to explore possibilities of coordination with those
countries' activities. He would finalize his report in Chad and all his work
would be completed in seven months. He and his team would use the two four-
wheel-drive pickups and the technical equipment that would have been acquired
for the map updating. Detailed costs, amounting CFAF 22 million (US$90,000)
are shown at Table 2. Project activities in the Cotton Zone are to be agreed
upon definitively between Government and the EDF.



-73-                                   N41
Table 1
C8AD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TSETSE SURVEY AND ERADICATION
Cotton Zone: Tsatse Survey
PEOJECT YEAR I
Unit                 Unit Coat         No.               Total           Foeeign sxchangp
(CEAI '000)                      (CPAP '000)               %
Staffing
Tuets. *pecialist 1/           No                       20,400               1           20,400                  80
Assistant  anager 1/           No                       17,700               1           17,700                  80
Technical secratary            No                        1,440               1            1,440                   O
Chief of operations
KEA 2/                      mn_-monthe                   40           2 x 8              640                   0
Team leader RFA 2/             man-months                   40           4 x 8            1,280                   0
Foremun                        M*n-months                   15           4 x 8              480                   a
Flycatchers                    men-months                   10          20 x 8            1,600                   0
Drivera                        uu-m_onthe                   35             84             2,940                   0
Assistant drivers              man-Months                   15             84             1,260                   0
Local vorkar in. - 3.5%                                                                     337                   O
48,077                  63
Equipent 3/
A. 4 wheel drive
station waSon            No                       2,400               1            2,400                  90
B.  Ligat pick-up              No                        1,560               2           3,120                   90
C. 4 wh el drive
pick-up                  No                       2,400               2            4,800                  90
n. 1.7t truck -
4 - wheel drive          No                       3,400               4           13,600                   90
Camping jer                    lump nue                                                   2,000                  90
Office equipment               lump *u.                                                   1,500                  90
Technical equipment            lump sua                                                   1,200                  90
Radio transceiver              No                          250               5            1,250                  90
29,870                 90
Operatins Costa
A. 4WD Station Wagon           Vehicle x monthe
x '000 ka                   70      1 x 12 x 2.5          2,100                  65
B. Light pick-up               Vehicle x nonths
x '000 km                   50      2 x 12 x 2.5          3,000                  65
C. 4WD pick-up                 Vehicle x months
x '000 ka                   70      2 x  8 x 3.0          5,600                  65
D. 4WD 1.7t truck              V-hicle x monthe
x '000 km                   90      4 x  8 x 5.0         14,400                  65
Office supplies and
co  uaicatione              lump-sua                                                     350                  90
Local air travel               trip                         60               8              480                  65
Plane hire                     hour                         40             24               960                  65
Report printing                lump-su.                                                   2,000                  50
28.890                  64
Total Base Costs - March '77 prices                                                          106,837                  71
Total  as e Costa - adjusted to March '78 prices 4/                                          114,850                  71
Physical contingencies - 10%                                                                  11,485                  71
TOTAL                                                                                        126,335                  71
1/  Total coat of technical assistance supplied by a consulting firn including housing in N'Djamena.
2/ Hardahip *nd field *llovances for Chadian livestock service agents.
3/  V-hicles Type A, B and D to pans to Middle Chari Eradication Campaign in PY2; vehicles Type C to pass ta
Cotton Zone Clearance Program Preparation in PY2.
4/ 107.5Z.



- 74-
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PIOJECT
TSEIIE SURVET AND ERADICATI01
Cotton Zone: PreRaration of Eradicetion Proara.
PROJECT YTAR 2
Unit               Unit Cost          No.             Total               Foreign Exchange
(CFAF '000)                     (CFAF '000)                    %
Staffing
Tsetse apecialist              man-uoathe             1,700            1 x 7          11,900                      80
Tsetse survey teaa
Tea Leader HYA 1/           man-matha                 40            1 x 3             120                      0
Foreman                     mn-months                 15            1 x 3              45                      0
Flycatchers                 mn-_nnthe                 10            4 x 3             120                      0
Drivera                        mn-monthu                 35              10              350                      0
Asut. drivers                     n-months               15              10             1l0                        0
Local worker ins. - 3.5%                                                                  27
Operating Costa                                                                            12.712                      75
2/
C. 4 wheel - driva pick-ups
- 1 used for 7 monthe       '000 1a                   70              30            2,100                     65
- t naed for 3 montha       '000 bm                   70              18            1,260                     65
Regionel & local air travel  lump &ua                                                    S00                     65
Plam& hire                     houri                     40              20              800                     65
Iport printing                 lump aux                                                1.000                     50
3.660                     62
Total Base Conte - larch '77 prices                                                        18,372                      71
Total Base Coscs - Adjusted to Mer '78 prices 3/                                           19,750                      71
Physîcel Contingencice - 10%                                                                1,975                      71
TOTAL                                                                                      21725                       71
i/  llrdship and field allovences for Chadien livestock service agents.
2/ These vehicles ex: Cotton Zone Taete Survey Operation (Table 1).
10/ 1075.



- 75                                                ANNIEX 6
Table 3
CEAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TSETSE CLEARANCE AND SURVEY
Middle Chari:  DeveloPment Plan
PROJECT lYARA 1
Unit              Unit Cost          No.             Total               Foreign Exchange
(CFAF '000)                      (CFAF '000)                   Z
S taf fing
Livestock Specialist           Man-months 1/           1,650 '         2 + 2           6,900                      77
Human geographer               Man-months lt           1,650 1/        2 + 2           6,900                      77
Agrostologist                  Man-months 1            1,650 1l        1 + 1           3,450                      77
Agronomist                     Man-months 1/           1,650 1/        1 + 1           3,450                      77
Economist                      Man-months 1/           1,650 1/        1 + 2           5,100                      78
Hydrogeologist                 Man-months 1/           1,650 1f        1+ 1            3,450                      77
Drivers                        Man-months                 35           4 + 0             140                       0
Assistant drivers              Man-months                 15           4 +0               60                       0
Local worker ins. - 3.5%                                                                    7                      °
76
29,457
Transportation
International Travel           Return trip               350               6           2,100                     100
Plane hire                     Hours                      40              12             480                      65
Rire of 4 wheel drive          '000 km
Station wagons           -140                                         2 x_12           3-360                      65
Sub-total                                                                          5,940                      72
Report Printing                     lump sua                                               -2,000                      50
Total Base Costs - Mar. 77 Prices                                                          37,397                      74
Total Base Costa adjusted to
- Mar. 78 Prices  2/                                                                     40,202                      74
Physical Contingencies                                                                           0
TOTAL                                                                                      40 202                     74
1/ Field work & report writing; paid field allowance of 150,000 CVA!/uonth for tield tise (U% FE).
2/ 107.5%



-           n-  -           eI         iw                                   
X g >~~~~~~ a                                        ne                              re5e-00ee
o ~ ~ ~        g s.~ 'eo  on I  e.o                                                             Mn oX
J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 0                      CM _  co oc                    n- d0 C                 rg
c:t  ~        oO x                              g g00n'~~-- FO F F                                                   ne
° -              ne        g  ' c.      -   <n              ô8»                  ôo     en>ôr     t    o°o  n  -
X ~ ~   ~    ~ ~                                     b        O'~ C           <pO               0
g~~~~~~~~M gæo.o *Me                                                                 -
. n   w                               ne
"9~~~ r-                 - .0  -J      C eeO                                                                n e
c~~~~~~ . n <p.O                                    --          O
ee ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ee
*' e                                       e eDWC>WWt 
gge~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                  )      ,t
ne,                  -Z-. '          '  no              '  0  e   Z  e    0
oorgs-to°g  @,
g~~ <e                  -e   o-e      e.             < 0-     eO    O  n                                                 ,
n0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~       
l  M éD_ n                        n.- -r-  
M                            e-e-e-                                                              ogÔÔgÔ     'Isl ôôôaô  DOo  g00
1->~~~000                      0 -r»      N  -w_   t      m               1   *~    w>                      
g      t g                                                                                                                             O°loôo°oo   o   ooS       8 s;iægo00 g w
9  °°S'^>_ SSSSSSSS ooe-  ooo 
7 klq-l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
O               n2.   -                                                                I<



- 77 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Central Responsibilities and Staffing
1.        The project would consist of the provision of an improved package
of services to organized pastoral groups in the sahelian zone and some spe-
cific activities. Project management would be vested in the Livestock
Department whose Director would be the Project Manager. He would be respon-
sible for the management of all aspects of project activities concerning
animal health, and animal and pastoral productivity. Since he would have
other non-project responsibilities, and the project would entail a broaden-
ing of the activities of the Livestock Department, he would be assisted by
a Chief Operations Officer who would be the Deputy Project Manager. In
addition, since the project would provide an inflow of funds to the livestock
subsector considerably in excess of previous financing, and there is scope
for cost savings in the operations of the agencies involved, the Director
would be further assisted by a Chief Accountant. Without being designated
a management unit, these three men would constitute the management team.
2.        Project activities concerning pastoral water supplies, abattoir
equipment and tsetse surveys and eradication would be separate subprojects to
be executed by existing agencies or, for all tsetse work, by contract. For
these activities, the role of the project management team would be limited
to approval of appointments of key personnel and of work programs, progress
review, procurement and financial control and to ensuring adherence to cove-
nants in project financing agreements; there would be no involvement in
day-to-day operations. SERARHY would submit by July 31 of each year a de-
tailed project-related work program via the Livestock Department to IDA for
approval.
3.        The Project Manager would be responsible for introducing, by
September 30, 1978, a monitoring and reporting system along the lines proposed
in paras 9-22 and for timely reporting thereafter. He would also be respon-
sible for the identification and preparation of activities for inclusion
in a follow-up livestock project and, to this end, would be assisted by 18
man-months of consultant services. In the monitoring of project peformance he
would be assisted by two man-months per year of a statistician, who would also
be responsible for monitoring performance of the livestock component of the
Southern Chad Integrated Rural Development Project.



- 78 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
Management Seminars
4.        The Livestock Department is better staffed than most other govern-
ment agencies in terms of the availability of senior technically-qualified
national staff and in terms of aggregate numbers. The training of field
staff, particularly in respect of the broadening of their competence, is
discussed at Annex 4. The field of competence of senior staff also needs
to be broadened, but in a different direction. These men are trained
veterinarians who have been put in managerial positions without having had
much formal training in management. Their effectiveness could be increased by
complementing their professional qualifications by an intensive program of
participative seminars in the principles and practices of modern management
techniques, such seminars being specifically designed for the functions of the
Livestock Department. Topics would include: time planning and control,
budgetary control (of vehicle operating expenses, for instance), stock control
(veterinary supplies), annual budget preparation (for a Center or Sector),
staff development planning (for a new Livestock Assistant), credit management
(livestock credit) and basic accounting. Annual two-week seminars would be
organized in March, which is otherwise a relatively slack month, to be fol-
lowed up possibly by quarterly one-day sessions on application exercises. The
Public Administration College (Ecole Nationale d'Administration) at N'Djamena
is adequately staffed to prepare and deliver such courses; the project would
finance the College's costs related to the courses as well as lodging and
transport of those participants not resident in N'Djamena.
5.        Despite the relative abundance of trained national staff, there
are some technical fields in which personnel would have to be recruited
internationally. These would include the Chief Operations Officer and the
Chief Accountant, each for four years, and senior tsetse staff. Consultants
would be recruited, although not necessarily internationally, for the delin-
eation of pastoral units (Annex 2, Table 1), for a land-use plan for the
middle Chari tsetse eradication area, and for preparation of a follow-up
third livestock project. In sum, the project would provide for eight man-
years of technical assistance in whose recruitment APMU would assist, a
further eight man-years for tsetse work, and for 66 man-months of consultant
services. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the qualifications
and experience, terms of reference (Schedule 1) and conditions of employment
of internationally-recruited staff and of all consultants financed from the
IDA credit would be acceptable to IDA.
Management Costs
6.        Even though incremental management staff including ancillary per-
sonnel would number only eight, the existing office accommodation of the
Livestock Department is not adequate to house them. The existing building
would therefore be extended and fully equipped; detailed costs, amounting to
CFAF 24 million (US$98,000), are at Table 2.  Incremental staff and associated



79                        ANNEX 7
Page 3
operating costs, together with management seminar costs, incremental monitor-
ing costs and consultants services for follow-up project preparation, are
detailed at Table 1; total costs would b' CFAF 304 million (US$1,241,000).
SERARHY
7.        SERARHY was established in 1968 but was preceded by a Subdivision
of Pastoral Water Supplies in the Ministry of Public Works from 1958-1965 and
by an independent body, OFRARHY, from 1965-1968.  The Subdivision exercised
quality control of works executed by various foreign agencies and did not
undertake works itself. OFRARHY was set up as an autonomous Rural Water
Supply Board with the intention that it execute works itself as well as
oversee works executed by others. Little is known now about its performance
or the reasons for its rapid demise. One possibility is that, having been
set up as an independent board, it was simply unable to obtain finance from
non-governmental sources as had presumably been intended. Its successor,
SERARHY - the Rural Water Supply Agency - was set up as an executing arm of
the Rural Engineering Department; it does not have financial autonomy, is
obliged to adopt civil service procedures regarding personnel and accounting,
and is prohibited from earning revenue. Despite these constraints, SERARHY
over the last 10 years has become a well-organized and effective institution
with nearly 400 employees, undertaking open well and tubewell construction,
repairs and maintenance in nearly all parts of the country. In some rural
*areas it is one of the few if not the only government agency actually working
in the field.  It has necessarily depended on foreign financiers, from whom it
has been unusually successful in obtaining funds, for the construction,
equipment and operations of its field services. These now include a tubewell
operation and maintenance unit based in N'Djamena and five open well construc-
tion and repair bases, of which four are in the project area, at Mao (Kanem),
Ati (Batha), N'Djamena (Chari Baguirmi) and at Abeche (Ouaddai). The Ouaddai
base also includes a tubewell drilling unit. The two other bases are in the
Cotton Zone, at Sahr/Koumra and at Moundou; the latter is under construction
with finance from credit 664-CD and will include open well repair and tubewell
drilling units. Since 1972, four IDA projects have financed the following
activities concerning pastoral water supplies:
(a) construction of 18 wells and repair of 20 wells in Batha
prefecture (309-CD);
(b) construction, partial equipment and operation of two SERARHY
bases, one in Batha and one in Ouaddai prefectures (309-CD,
445-CD, 664-CD);.
(c) rehabilitation and operation for four years of twelve
tubewells in Chari Baguirmi prefecture (445-CD; 739-CD);
(d) equipment and operation of one SERARHY base in Kanem
prefecture (739-CD); and
(e) a study on water extraction methods (309-CD).



- 80 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
The annual cost of local personnel, materials and vehicle and equipment
operation for a fully-operational open well base is about CFAF 40 million;
vehicle and equipment operation adds an average of about CFAF 15 million.
For the six open well bases, the annual cost is about CFAF 330 million. The
annual cost of operation of the tubewell units is an additional CFAF 220
million. This complex has been set up and funding obtained, albeit intermit-
tently, by a management team consisting of only a director and a chief
operations officer (both financed by FAC) and the Director of the Rural
Engineering Department. Staff training, primarily in well digging and lining
and in vehicle and equipment maintenance, has been provided by UNDP since
1973. This UNDP project would continue through 1978 and its extension is
included in the draft UNDP Country Program through 1981, in which a four-man
technical assistance team is envisaged.
8.        SERARHY's achievements to date have been realized in the face of
two difficulties to which attention must now be given. These are (a) the
effects of its status as an administrative agency on the efficiency of its
field operations and (b) the inadequate provision for recurrent cost financ-
ing. The nature of SERARHY's Eield work requires that greater licence be
given to senior staff than is permitted by civil service regulations; the
efficiency of field operations requires flexibility in the treatment of sub-
ordinate staff and in modifications to work programs, and speed in procurement
of minor items. SERARHY's performance to date has been realized in spite of
the regulations within which it operates and it is, moreover, prohibited from
earning revenue, whether from beneficiaries or from foreign aid agencies for
whom it might undertake particular works on a fee basis. Thus no provision
can presently be made for replacement of equipment. There is then a strong
case for changing SERARHY's status from that of an administrative agency to
one of a public body with managerial and financial autonomy. On the other
hand, the previous attempt to set up an autonomous public body (OFRARHY) was
quickly abandoned; review of that experience would be advisable before embark-
ing on a change in SERARHY's current status; with which management has learned
to live even though it is not conducive to optimum efficiency in field opera-
tions. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would, by
December 31, 1978, undertake a review of SERARHY's status with a view, and
in the light of previous experience, to conferring on it managerial and
financial autonomy.
Project Reporting Requirements
9.        Because of the disparate nature of the various project components,
five forms will be used as a framework of a reporting system, and of a
scheduling and management system. These forms would be similar or identical
to the five forms used for reporting under the Sahelian Zone Project (Credit
737-CD). Where an executing agency, in particular SERARHY, already prepares
routine reports which are fully adequate for subproject purposes, it would
not be the intention to replace these. Indeed it would be intended that
all reports should be a by-product of normal management activities, and



- 81 -                      ANNEX 7
Page 5
not duplication of other procedures. In order to ensure maximum utility of
all reports, their usefulness, content and design would be a topic to be
discussed at the management seminars for senior Livestock Department staff
(para. 4).
Framework Forms
10.       The five framework forms are:
Form 1   Disbursement Schedule - to report progress of
actual disbursements for each component
against appraisal estimates, adjusted for
price increases, and to allow for revised
forecasts. A summary would also be prepared
for the project as a whole.
Form 2    Program Schedule - to assist planning and scheduling
of activities, with a limited capacity to quantify
performance. The general layout will be along the
lines of the implementation schedule attached to
this annex. Notes on the reverse would indicate
conventions to be adopted when completing the form,
50 that each follows the same usage.
Form 3    Performance Schedule - to enable reporting where
necessary of more detailed performance figures --
with time across the horizontal axis and items
subdivided into appraisal, latest forecast,
and actual, on the vertical axis.
Form 4    Key Tasks Schedule - an adjunct to the program
schedule to help control the timely performance
of key activities. This will be a simple form,
with columns to identify tasks, allocate re-
sponsibilities for action with completion date,
and to report on the current status of the action.
This form is intended to serve as a periodical
(at least monthly) problem identification and
review document, with completed actions dropping
off, and new actions being added as necessary.
Form 5    Vehicle Operation Report - a form to assist manage-
ment to control the heavy expenses on this item.
The form will be completed monthly for each vehicle
operated, and will cover such items as:
Description of Vehicle and Accessories
Date Purchased and Cost
Kilometre Readings



- 82 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6
Analysis of running by type of road,
and by trip pur-ose
Fuel and Oil Consumption
Tire record
Regular Service - work and cost
Breakdowns, repairs - work and cost
The basic source of this information
will be a vehicle log book similar to
that already used by Office de Mise en
Valeur de Sategui-Deessia (Sategui-Deressia
Irrigation Project - Credit 489-CD).
Coordination
11.       The Project Manager will have prepared or as the case may be, will
receive copies of reports from executing agencies as frequently as he shall
determine, but no less frequently than six-monthly, and will have summaries
prepared as necessary for the project as a whole; e.g., the Chief Accountant
will summarize the overall disbursement position. The six monthly IDA super-
vision missions will use the latest of the reports of the Project Manager.
Individual Project Components
12.       The following paragraphs indicate special reporting requirements
of certain of the individual project components.
Delineation of Pastoral Units
13.       The official minute will constitute the main immediately visible
output in this area (Annex 2, para 10).
Vaccines, Drugs & Feed Supplements
14.       Records would be kept of use of items distributed free, and regular
reports prepared reconciling quantities received, details of quantities
used, wastage, and stocks on hand verified by physical count.  For items
for which charges are levied, the system would be extended to include the
monetary equivalents of stocks held, and the reconciliation of cash balances
held, and cash forwarded to the Bank or appropriate agent.
15.       Records would be designed to maximize usefulness for the project
monitoring activity undertaken by the internationally recruited statistician
(para. 3) and for the smallstock vaccine trials (Annex 2, para. 18).
Field Stations and Vaccination Yards
16.       The program schedule will be used to report on the planned con-
struction schedule, performance against plan, and the actual cost of each
installation.



- 83 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7
Vehicle & Equipment Operations
17.       Form 5 will be used.
Pastoral Water Supplies
18.       SERARHY's standard records and reports, as expanded slightly
for reporting under the Sahelian Zone Project (Credit 739-CD) will be
used.
Credit
19.       One of the principal initial tasks of the Credit Officer (Annex 3,
para. 13) would be the detailed preparation of the credit program, of which
the reporting system would constitute a significant part.
Training
20.       The`-appropriate standard reports would be supplemented by a short
narrative report of activity undertaken and planned.
Abattoir Eguipment
21.       The project will require reports on (a) the planning for, implementa-
tion of, and expenditures incurred relative to the re-equipment, and (b) the
status of the actions and practices indicated at Annex 5, para. 3.
Tsetse Eradication and Surveys
22.       The output of the three tsetse surveys will constitute the main
reporting requirement, but the standard forms will be used as appropriate
to report briefly on the progress of work, for the survey, and for the
eradication campaign. The eradication campaign would also produce appropriate
reports of its results.



CEAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGMENT
Management Costs
Unit         Unit          Project Year 1          Projeot Year 2        Project Year 3       I Project Year 4             Total      Foreign
Cost       Quantity      Cost      Qyiantity      Cost     quantity      Cost      Quantity     Cost         Cost        Exchange
(CFAF             '000)  (CFA  ' )                   DF '000             (CFAF '000)            (CFAF '000)
Vehicles: light pick-ups i/             No.           1,560           3         4,680         _          _           _                                               4,680       90
Personnel
Chief Operations Officer              man-year       18,100           1        18,100         1         18,100o      1         18,100         1       18,100        72,400        80
Chief Accountant                      man-year       16,400          1         16,400         1        16,400        1        16,4oo         1       16,40o        65,600        80
Accounts Clerk                        man-year          6 600                                 1           600        1            600        1           600         2,400       -
Junior Accountants Clerk              man-year          420           1           420         1           420        1            420        1           420         1,680       -
Secretaries                           man-year          300           2           600         2           600        2            600        2           600        2,400        -
Drivers  g                            man-year          240           2           480         2           480        2            480        2           480         1,920       -
Subtotal                                                                 32ÊIo         36,600                 361600                 36,600                   146,40o       75
Operations
Vehicles                             '000 km/yeai        50        3 x 24       3,600       3 x 24      3,600      3 x 24      3,600       3 x 24      3,600       14,4oo        65
Air Travel  3/                        trip               30        2 x 10         600       2 x 10        600      2 x 10        600       2 x 10        600        2,4°0        65
Plane Hire                            hour               40         10            400       10            400      10            400        10           400        1,600        65
Office Supplies                       lump sum          500                       500                     500                    500                     500        2,000       960
Maintenance of Office Equipment       lump sun          250                       250                     250                    250                     250        1,000        65
Communications                        lump sum          500                       500                     500                    500                    500         2,000        65
Subtotal                                                                   5,850                                          5,850                  5,850        23,400        67
Management Seainars
Air Travel  4/                        trip               50          5            250        5            250       5            250         5           250        1,000        65
Travel Allouance                      manday              1.2      S x 14          84      5 x 14          84     5 xi4           84       5 x 14         84          336        -
Course Fee  2                        lump sum        3,000                      3,000                   3,000                  3,000                  3,000        12,000        -
Subtotal                                                                  3,334                    3,334                  3,334                  3.334        13,336         5
MonitoringJ Unit i/                   lump aum       7,000                      7oo0 ?2o00                                     7,000                   7,000       28,000        50
Audit                                lump sum                                  2,500                    2,500                  2,500                  2,500        10,000        80
Prépàration Follow-Up Project        mag-month       1,715          _           -            6         10.290       9         1543f 5        3        5r4          500,870      80
Total Base Costs:  March'77 prices                                            59,964                   65,574                 70,719                 60 429       256,686        68
Total Base Coata:  March'78 prices  /                                          64,462                  70,493                 76,023                 64 962       275,940        68
Physical Contingencier  8                                                      12,892                  14,098                 15,204                 12,992        55,186        68
Total                                                                                                  84,591                 9                                                  68
1/  1 for the Project Manager, 1 for the Chiefoperations Officer and 1 for the accounts staff.
/  Only 2 are incremental.
Q/ 5 trips per year to each of Mao and Ati.
For the 5 Livestock Center Chiefs posted out of N'Djamena.
/To be undertaken by the Ecole Nationale d'Administration at N'Djamena; lump sum basei on 3 expatriate man-months equivalent.                                                    -..
1 expatriate statistician for 2 man-months per year plus field staff; vehicles, office supplies and data processing overheads
are budgeted under the liveatock component of the Southern Chad Integrated Rural Development Project.
7/ 107.5%.
g/  20% on ail items.



- 85 -
CHAD                                  ANNEX 7
Table 2
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Office Accomodation
Unit       Pro,ect Year 1         % Foreign
Unit     Cost       quantity    Cost       Exchange
(C-AY 1000)            (CFAF '000)
Extension to existing                         m2      100          138     13.800          50
building 1/
Office Furniture
Desk Type A                                No.      150            4        600          90
Desk Type B                                No.       70            5        350          90
Chairs Type A                              No.       50            4        200          90
Chairs Type B                              No.       15           20        300          90
Metal cupboards                            No.      100            4        400          90
Filing cabinets Type A                     No.       90           15      1,350          90
Filing cabinets Type B                     No.      100            2        200           0
Mobile iedger bins                         No.      150            2        300          90
Office Equipment
Air conditioners, 2 HP                     No.      200            3        600          90
Air conditioners, 1 HP                     No.      140            3        420          90
Telephones                                 No.      100            6        600          90
Long-carriage typewriter                   No.      300            1        300          90
Typewriter                                 No.      200            1        200          90
-Print-out electric calculator              No.      120            3        360          90
Print-out manual calculator                No.       60            3        180          90
Photocopier                                No.      450            1        450          90
Stencil printèr                            No.      400            1        400          90
7.210         88
Total Base Costs:  March 1977 prices                                       2rMI            66
Total Base Costs:  March 1978 prices 2/                                    22,793          63
Physical Contingencies 3J                                                   1,504          50
Total                                                                      24,297          62
1/  3 offices 5m x 6m; 3 offices 4m x 4m.
2   109% for civil works; 107.5% for furniture and equipment.
3/ 10Z for civil works.



- 86 -
ANNEX 7
Schedule 1
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Qualifications and Responsibilities of Key Personnel
Chief Operations Officer
1.        The Chief Operations Officer would be responsible to the Director
of the Livestock Department, who would be the Project Manager. He would
assist the Director in all tasks pertaining to management of the project,
principally:
(a) day-to-day direction of project activities concerning
pastoral units, associations of pastoralists, live-
stock services, credit, training, and organization
and management;
(b) preparation of annual work programs;
(c) establishment of a reporting system and preparation of
periodic and annual progress reports for the projects;
(d)  review of project activites in the fields of abattoir
re-equipment and stock watering points;
(e)  identification of activities for inclusion in a follow-
up livestock project.
He would be appointed for four years and his appointment would be a condition
of effectiveness of the IDA credit.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Chief Operations Officer
would be:
(a) A university degree (or its equivalent) in agriculture
or veterinary science with a major in animal husbandry,
animal production or an allied field;
(b) Experience in semi-arid livestock health and production;
(c) Actual experience or an indicated potential as a
successful project leader able to coordinate the
activities of a team of individuals;



- 87 -
ANNEX 7
Schedule 1
Page 2
(d)  Field experieuce in working w..h paâ    -.Ls indiTatiug
a capacity for gaining their confidence;
(e) General management skills including preferably some
familiarity with agricultural credit; and
(f) A good knowledge of French.
Chief Accountant
1.        The Chief Accountant would be responsible to the Project Manager
for all administrative, financial and accounting aspects of the project.
His specific responsibilities would include:
(a) setting up detailed accounts and a consolidated project
account and control of bookkeeping;
(b)  preparation of annual budgets and semi-annual cash flow
projections;
(c) implementation of sound internal and management controls
particularly with regard to vehicle operating costs,
stocks and receipts;
(d)  preparation of applications for withdrawal from the IDA
credit account;
(e) follow-up of auditors' recommendations;
(f) setting up accounting procedures for the credit
programs;
(g) participation in the drafting of tender documents and
other procurement papers;
(h) training of accounting staff;
(i) provision of financial management assistance to the
Farcha Abattoir and, to this end, participation in
meetings of the Abattoir's board of directors.
He would be appointed for four years and his appointment would be a condition
of effectiveness of the IDA credit.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Financial Controller
should be:



- 88 -
ANNEX 7
Schedule 1
Page 3
(a) A university degree (or its equivalent) or membership
in a recognized professional body evidencing
formal knowledge of modern accounting theory and
practice in accordance with generally accepted
international standards;
(b) 5 years professional experience, some of which prefer-
ably in a developing country and/or a country using
the OCAM or French accounting plans;
(c) General management skills, including the ability to
direct and develop junior staff;
(d) Familiarity with credit control and preferably some
experience with agricultural credit; and
(e) A good knowledge of French.



CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
MAIN PROJECT ACTIVltIES
MinistrV of Economy.                                                                               Minitry ot RunJ
Planning & Transport                                                                               D"depmn
l                             L           D&E~~~~~~~~LVéETSTOCK
Department of    _EPT.
Planning                                         Office
r--- --- ~~_   I
Ch dian                   Publie Adnmnistration                I                              t              I            I Ikj
Devwlopmennt             ColI.oamanement                   Credit                  DelPastoral Unit     TVaccination Cubni,               MaaaTi k                Farcha Abbatoir               External
Bank                      Seminars)onDruga li Supplnemnts                                                                                Tminhnr                  Re-eOquipmant                 Auditaru
OTHER PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Serarhy - Pastoral Water Supplies
Contract Teams - Tsetse
Woeid Bank-17898



CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year               1978                                   979                               1980                J               1981                                 19B2
ACTIVITIES           ProIect Yea                           I        PROJECT YEAR 1                       PROJECT YEAR 2                      PROJECT YEAR 3             |         ROJECT YEAR 4
Month  J     T FIMA M  J J I    "}  'N  D  J F M|A M|                   N I   J  F MIA M  J \h&\S N  |   J F IM|A|M| J                           ND                    A F M  J
Delmneation of Pastoral Units                                                                                                                                                                   I     I
Vaccines, Drugs   Feet Supplements                                                 II
eldStations & VaccintoInYards                                                                                                                                                                                          I
I PuwtrunoI  II II  xtw2\\,,\ lI                                                                          I 1- 1 1       ` `I`X `t0 `9t  
I T..              a.r,ar  Yad                                                          I                                                                       I jgl\tW\\\\\\   S\ N\ 
L.ivestock Technicians QuartersI                                                                                                                                                                  I
Pastoral WatIr Supps                                                                          M                                                                                                                              't '   I*M*U   I    \
Credit   -  t'r3 econtstitution |oars                                                 |
I                                                                                                 \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\
Training                                                                                                                                                                                                           \ |\\   \
-Refreher Courses Livestock                                                                         M'
Dept. Staff 
-Associatlons representatifflI 
anti agenît                                                                                                                                                               's
Abbatoir Rne,upnn                                                                                                                                                               s 
Tsetse Survëvn~ i3,j                                    i 
-    ZOq he  Program preparstîon                    \b''ss
M  CRh± C.t   Development r~an                                                       I\'sUAK mu\'iC'l
Management seminars                                                                                                                                                                r
Audit                                            jj\.\*\N
World Bank-179~2



CHAD
SEODND LIVESTOCX PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Summary of Project Costs
Source               Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4          Total           Total         Fcreigu
Exchange
(Annex. Table)                         ----------- (A  '0-----------                        ---       (USS '000)        (%)
Pastoral Units and Livestock Services
Delineation of Pastoral Units                             2.1                  25.853           25,853                             -              51,706           211.0       60
Vaccines, Drugs and Feed Supplements                      2.2                 i69,867          157 988          169,029          134,279         6M1,î63         2,5'76.2      56
Field Stations and Vaccination Yards                      2.3                   79,287          87,871            -                -             lo 7,15           602.3
New Vehicles and Equipment and their Operation             2.4                  57,846          25,698          124,227           88,655         296,426         1,209.9
Operation of Existing Vehicles                            2.5                   36,378          36,378            -                -              72,756           297.0       65
Stock Watering Points                                     2.11                  80,429         133,621          173,108          163,294         550,452         2,246.7       58
Subtotal                                                                      449,660          467,409          466,364          386,228       1,769,661         7,223.1       60
Credit                                                      3.4                   27,562           77,881          58,813            60,490         224,746           917.3      12
Abattoir Equipment                                          5.2                  27,923                             -                               27,923           114.0     100
Tsetse Surveys and Eradication
Cotton Zone:  Tsetse Survey                                6.1                114,850            _                _                _             114,850           468.8       71
Cotton Zone:  Preparation of Eradication Program           6.2                    '             19,750            _                _              19,750            80.6       71
Middle Chari: Development Plan                             6.3                  40,202           -                -                -              40,202           164,1       74
Middle Chari: Tsetse Eradication                           6.4                   -             225,501          113,593           93,039         432,133         1,763.8       71
Subtotal                                                                       155,052         245,251          113,593           93,039                         2,477.3       71
Drganization and Management
Management Costs                                           7.1                  64,462          70,493           76,023            64,962         275,940        1,126.3       68
Office Accommodation                                       7.2                  22,793            -                -                -              22,793            93.0      63
Subtotal                                                                        L                70,493           76,023           64,962         298,733         1,219.3       68
Total Base Costs                                                                 747,452          861,o34          714,973          604,719       2,927,998        11,951.0       60
Physical Contingencies                                                  -       96,862         110,257           98,209            83,602         388,930         1,587.5       58
Expected Price Increases  1/                                                    65,oo4          151,271          189,429          219,574         625,278         2,552.1       60
Total Pro.iect Coata                                                             909,318           2                              1,002,431  907,895  3,942,206    16,090.6       60
Civil Works: 9%/year through end-1979, 8% thereafter; ail other items: 7.5%/year through end-1979, 7% thereafter.  Since
base cost6 are expressed in March 1978 prices, and the project year is from October 1 to September 30, the inflation factoi's are: Year 1:
Civil Works - 9%, all other items - 7.5%; Year 2: Civil Works - 18.2%, all other items - 15.2%; lear 3: Civil Works - 27.6%, all other
fiums - 23.3%; Year 4: Civil Works-- there are none, all other items - 31.9%.
X
0 o



-90-
CED                                                                   ANNEX 8
Table 2
SEO0ND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Coste by Types of Excenditures
Vehicles and         Local            Expatriate       Supplies &
Civil Worke      Eguipment             Personnel        Personnel        Operations          Total 1/          Total
---------------------------------------(CFAF '000)---------------------------------------7(USn  *ooe
Delineatisn o! Pastoral Usits
Base Costs - March 197?  prices                    -               -                   4,658           28,200           15,240             48,098               196.3
Base Co6st  - March 1978 prices                    -               -                   5,007           30,315           16,383             51,706               211.0
Physical COntingencies                             -               -                     501            3,031            1,638              5,170                21,1
Expected Price Increases                           -               -                      626            3,784            2,046              6,456               26.4
Total Cost                                         -               -                   6,134           37,130           20,067             63,332               258.5
Vaccines, Druge and Feed Supplements
Base CGsts - March 1977 prices                     -               -                  29,o64              -            558,o65            587,129            2,396.4
Base Clsts - March 1978 prices                     -               -                  31,244             -             599 919            631,163            2,576.2
Physical Contingencies                             -               -                   6,249             -             1
Expected Price Increases                           -               -                    7,302             -            135 466            l42,76Î
Total lest                                         -               -                  44,795             -             855,369            9°0,164            3,674.1
Field Stations and Vaccination Yarda
Base lests - March 1977 prices                  153,356            -                    -                -                -               153,356               625.9
Base Coste  - March 1978 prices                 167,158            -                    -                -                -               167,158               682.3
Physical Contingencies                           16,716            -                    -                -                -                16,716                68.2
Expected Price Increases                         25,441            -                     -                -                -                25,441              103.8
Total Clst                                      209,315            -                     -                -                -               209,315              854.3
tew X'ehicles and Eguipment and their Operation
Base lests - March 1977 prices                     -            123,690                 -                -             152,055            275,745             1,125.5
Base Caste - March 1978 prices                     -            132,967                  -                -            163,459             296,426            1,209.9
-hysical Contingencies                             -             13,297                 -                -              32,692             45,990               187.7
Expected Price Increases                            -            29,922                  -                -              45,923             75,845              309.6
Total Cost                                         -            176,186                  -               -             242,o74             418,261            1,707.2
'peration af Existing Vehicles
Base Costa - March 1977 prices                     -               -                    -                -              67,680              67,680              276.2
Pase Costa - Mareh 1978 prices                     -               -                    -                -              72,756             72,756               297.0
Phy6ical Cantingencies                             -               -                     -               -              14,552            1,552                 59.4
Expected Price Increases                           -               -                     -                -              9,909               9,909               40.4
îotal Clst                                         -               -                     -                -             97,217             97,217               396.8
Stock Watering Pointa
Base Costs - MHrch 1977 prices                     -            137,740              119,092              -            255,217            512,049             2,090.0
Base lests - March 1978 prices                     -            148,070              128,024             -             274,358            550,452             2,246.7
Physical Contingencies                             -               -                  12,802             -              27,436             40,238               164.2
Expected Price Increases                           -             27,580                31,914             -              68,392            127,886              522.0
Total Cbot                                         -            175,650              172,740              -            370,186             718,576            2,932.9
Credit
Base Clsts - March 1977 prices                   27,400           5,100               10i',`f9           -             165,444            208,613               851.5
Base Clsta - March 1978 prices                   29,866           5,483               11,469             -             177,928            224,746               917.3
thysical lontingencies                            2,987             548                1,147             -              17,792             22,474                91.7
Expected Price Increases                          5,207             534                2,595             -               43,581            51,917               211.9
Total Cet                                        38,G60           6,565               15,211             _             839,301            299,1'7             1,220.9
Abattoir Equip=ent
Base lests - Harch 1977 prices                     -             25,975                                                    -               25,975               106.0
Base Clets - harch 1978 prices                     -             27,923                 -                                                  27,923               ii4.o
Physical Contingencies                             -              4,189                                                                     4,i82               17.1
Expected Price In-reases                           -              2,408                                                    -                 2,4o8                9.8
Total Clot                                         -             34,520                                                    -               34,520               140.9
Tsetse Surveys and Eradication
Base leste - Harch 1977 prices                     -             86,710               6     0         193,550          214,780            564,590            2,3o4.4
Base lCets - Harch 1978 prices                     -             93,213               74,766          208,066          230,889             66,5               2,4.3
Ftyeycal lentingencies                             -              9,321                7,455           17,663           22,235             56,673               231.3
Expected frics Increases                           -             14,696               17,295           39,593            43,671           115,255               47o.4
Total Clet                                         -            117,230               99,516          265,322          296,795            778,863             3,479.0
Organizsation and Management
Base Goals - Mar    977 prices                   13,800          11,890               34,40°          192,870           24,736            277,696             1,133.4
Basec lests - Haret 1978 prîtes                  15,042          12,782               36,98o          207,335           26,591            298,733             1,219.
Physical Contingencies                            1,5o4           1,'006               7,396           41,467            5 318              6,691               231
Exeted Priest     nrae                            1,489           1,034                 8,715          49,885             6,268             67,391              275.1
18,035         14,822                53,091          298,687           38,177            422815            1,725.8
Total
Base Ceste - March 1977 prises                  194,556         391,105              267,4r           414,620        1,453,217           2,720,931          11,103.8
Base Cests - March 1978 prices                  al2,o66         420,438              287,490          44,6           1,56,283            2,927,998          11,951.0
Physical Contingencies                           2127            2,-12740                             45,716         1,562,283           297981,5.
Exphycad lrientîngrenies                         21,207          28,631               35,552           62,161          241,647             388,926           1,587.5
Expected Prices Inereases                        32,137          76,174               68,447           93,262          355,256             625,276           2,552.1
Tota1 Project Clst                              265,41o         524,973              391,489          6501,139       2,159,186           3,942,200          16,090.6
1/  Columns add; rocs may net.



CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Financing Summary
IDA                EDF          Pastoralists           Total
CFAF m     $OOO    CFAF m   $'000  CFAF m    $'000    CFAF m   $ 'pon
Pastoral  Units and Livestock Services 1/                1,739       7,097        -      -        _280    1,143    2,019        8,240
Credit                                                      247      1,008        _      -           -        -        247      1,00O
Abattoir Equipment                                          32          131       -      -           -        -          3-2       131
Tsetse Survey and Eradication                                -         -         664  2,710          -        -        664      2,710
Organization and Management 2/                             319       1,302        ICI   147_                         * 395      1,449
Total Base Costs at March 1978
prices plus Physical Contingencies                2,337       9,538       700  2,857        280    1,143    3,317    13,538
Revolving Fund                                             123         500                                              123       500
Unallocated (Price Contingencies)                          362       1,48         4Q-0-3  572       - 4/   _            502     2,052
Total                                                    2,822    .11,518         840 3,429         280    1,143    3,942    16,090
72%                   21%                7%                 100%
1/ Includes (from Table 4): (a) Delineation of Pastoral Units, (b) Vaccines, Field Tests and Ancillary staff, (c)
Drugs and Small Materials, (d) Mineral Licks, (e) Feed Concentrates, (f) Field Stations and Vaccination Yards,
(g) New Vehicles and Equipment and Operating Costs, (h) Operation of Existing Vehicles and (i) Stock Watering Eoints.  F M
2/ Includes (from Table 4): (a) Organization and Management, (b) Monitoring and (c) Office Accomodation.                              X
3/ Strictly CFAF 122 million (Table 4) but adjusted upwards to yield the previously given total EDF contribution of CFAF  < r
840 million.
4/ Strictly CFAF 70 million (Table 4) but eliminated since pastoralists' contributions would be set at fixed rates at
least for the major item - stock watering points; the adjustment has been added into the IDA (CFAF 52 million) and
EDF (CFAF18 million) columns.



Pf        10 2      5> 853Tota 706                  f5l      25.9      113        10         oal      23        02         23         11>     oo        'I        12      18         10       Ttl           20
Flxloeicol Cllocoîrieo       ~~~2,135    2,385   -                    ,1456      2.6       2.6                              6  .4                                                                                                           .
SoCloCol                    ~~~~~~~~~~30,591   32.761               63,332      30.6       32.8       -         -          63.4       -         -         -                                                         -         -653.4
Cool                    ~~~~~~~~~~73,87   68,118   733.54   73,304  292,67l  77.8      66.î      23.4      73.13      292.6       -         -          -         -         .                 -        -         -          -296
LOtiraI CoCîcoo~~~~~ooo     15,569   13.624   14,671   14,671       58,535      156       1.          4.947                5.         -         -         -         -          -        -                                                   86
Cocecîed lric,Iocceoîoo      1,~7096   12,425   20,510   "'Af       68,021       7.0      12.4      20.5       28.1        68.o       -         -         -          --                                                       -6.
lîbtolol                    106~~~~~~~~,422   94,167  106,535  116,105  419,229  i30.4     94.1    îod.6    116.1         419.2       -6                                       -        -        -        -          .                     1.
^to  Col                            50,095     94,35   51:175   350,126   184,8336      47.9      45.6      24.5       .         119.2       -         -          -         -         -        21       22      2.         01       6.           8.
E ycloo  Ooloeîe                        9,1       .8      029       ,2         68-          .         .         .                    23.7       -                             -         -        0.5       0.4      5,3       7.9      13.2         36.9
lopootel ?rtcoioccooîoo       ks~4,og    8,745   14,367   13,41.6   41,007       4.3       8.3       67         -          19.1       -         -         -         -         -        0.2      0.4       7.6      13,5      23.7          41.o
îUîtoCt                     ~~~~~~~~~~64,623   66,279   25,911   55,597  262,210  81.8    63.3       36.1                 16i.2       -         -         -         -          -        2.0      3.0     59.6      55.6     101.0         262.2
Cote Cool                    5~~~~~~~~~7,625   37,625   37,626   21,500  134,376  30.1    30.1       10.0                  79.0       -                   -         -          -        7.5      7.5    î8.0       21.5      55.3         184.3
Plyticol Coolioooîcîoo        796~~7  7,25      7526    4,9%0       26.076       6.0       6.0       3.8       -          15.8       -          -         -                   -        1.5       1.5      3.0       4.3      u1.1         26.9
Copoolol Fric, CCc,ooooî     9,~~386   663 105,520    8,2Mo         20,gqg      2.7        3.5       5.2       -          13.4       -         -         -                    -        0.7      1.4       5.2       8.2      15.3         284~
Cobtol 1.8,36   3205 55,672   580%                                           190,251      38.8      41.6      27.8       -          108,2       -                                       -        9         04      27.8      94.0      81.9         19%.:
Fool Cb ....lrtioo
Ph,.i-J   .t~"-j..4,300    4,300    6,880    4,598                  19,785       4.3       4.3       3.4       -           12.0       -         -         -         -         -        -         -        34        43        771.
FbotictlCooîiootocio,         ~~~~~860  866     1336      Sc         3,886      oS 8        .8       0.7       -           2.3       -                   -          -                  -        -          ,        1,3       1..         14,
CorecledP,.îceîoîeeto,o       ~~~367    764    1,4 i      ,646       4741-       84        0         1.0       -           2.2       -         -         -          -         -        -        -         12        14        84.
OolîOltl                     ~~~~~~~~~~5.547    ,944   io,î8o    6,806  20,477    s.       5.9       5.1       -           16.5       -         -         -         -          -        -        -        5.1       6.8      12,0          28.5
21012 ltaoioo & iaooato -bro 
loto Cool                   ~~~~~~~~~79,287 87 8791  -    -         167,15-8    79:3       87.9                 -         167.        t             .     -                    ---                                                        167.2
PlîtocolCoîlîoî.ooloo        7,928~~'r  8,787    -        -         16 716       7 9       8.8       -                    176.0-                          -                            -         -        -                                16.7
CotoolPrCe-       cooe                  7,M94   17,592     -        -         25,441       7.8      47.6       -          -          25 .4      -         -         -                             -        -                            -25,4
11410101                    ~~~~~~~~~~95,065  114,250  -            0938.*      95.0      il4.3       -         -         209,3       -                             9-                           -3  
loto Cool                   ~~~~~~~~~57.846   25.698  524,22    88,635  296.426  57.8     25.7      124.2      88.7       296.4       -         -         - 
10  6229 Flyti-o   oîigeî             7,0303   4,6    18,472  i4;s1         459,99       7.9       4.8      18,5      14.9         46.1       -                   -         -          -        -        -        -         --
lo -oto  Frir  ilr--o                   4,9e6    4,630  533,249   33.010      55,845       4.9        4.6      35.2      33.0        35.7       -         -                    -         -        -        -        -          --7?
Sibtol                                 76,607   30,097  135,945  136,689     418,261      30.6      35.1      175.9     176.6       410.2       -         -         -         -          -        -        -        --                   -482                   o
Coso Coot                   ~~~~~~~~~36,35836,378                   Il  .56     36.4       36.4       o         -          72,8       -                                                                                                     2--    - - 
2'lctlctl Coîîiîgeîcîoo      ~~~7,276    7,276   -        -         14,552       7.3       7,3       -          -        -14.6        -         -         -          -         -        -        -        -.                   -     .     14.6
îootoltdFrlroîocreoteo        5,~~3294    6,6e                       5,9 59      3.2        6.6       -         -           9.8       -                              -         -        -        -         o         -           
416,928   50,289                       97,217      46.9      30.3       -          -          9.2                                                                   -        -          -         -9.
72.8l' 8±1it80,429 133.625  173,108  163,294    3590,452                                91.0     112.1      134.4     116.0       434.3       -         -         -          -         -        8.6     21.5      38.7      473      116.1        ss.4
Flysoîti Coîtiiooîcitt       ~~~4,437   0,091   13,485   13,485     46~258       3.9       7.4      10.9        9.6        31.4       -         -                    -         -        0.5      1.4       3.0       5.9       8.8         40.2
Frîcooîcoooo          ,365 21,653   43 476   5629312                    iî?       1: 2      338       4 1j        97.                                                    9~9.                               65       5.           2.
64 105   30 ffl  3 172   .4      13877    178:7    165:7        563.5                                                          9       3 6.4    51.4       "7.5    1.1          21866
Co  Col27,562   77,681   5,8183   6o,49o                                     224,746      27.6       "97.      58.8      60.5       224.7       -         -          -         -         -        -        -         --                  -£4.
Phyoiool Colgcîo2,756    7,388    5,581    8,049                              22,474       2.0       ?j          .9       6.0        22.5       -         -         -          -         -        -        -         ..                  -0,
loroctol FrCooîOoroooot      ~~~2,399   17,2.56   15,074   m0,688   51.917       2.4       13.7      15.1      20.7        51.9       -              .     -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -30,9
lîblotol                    ~~~~~~~~~32,717   99,425   79,768   87,225  299,137  32.8      39.4      39.8      87.2       299.1       -          -         -         -                   -        -        -         -          -09.
Con Cool                    ~~~~~~~                         ~~~27,3  - - - 27,923  2~9      -         -         -         27.9        -          -         -         -         -        -         -        -         -          -2
IIyoîlCt îc0Cio4,0                               -                  -          4 189        .2       -         -         -           4.2        -         -         -                             -        -        --                                4.2
FecoF rî-îei-  cooo2,4o8                                   -        -          2,408       2.4        -         -         -          2.4        -                                                                                                       ..
îîototal                               34.520     -                            34,520     3479i      -                               4-                              -                            -         --5                                       34.5
Bote -Cooî                            155,032  245,251  117,597   93,039  ~'.935           -          -         -         -          -        155.0      245.3     113.6      95.0       6069,                                                       606 9
CCoîîî Coî- gocc                        is,48    20,525   11,35    ,99.       56,67        .         -          -         -          -         11.5      24.5       11î4       9.       -56-                                   -                     66.
Coroctol F cil, îlccotteo   ~12,490   41,006   298,15194  32,647    115,23 -                                               -         1.         41 .0     29.1      726        105.2     -                            --56.
139.927  3o1,70î  Cy>,066  l'o,,..,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -   -   -      -        10~~~9.0   310.8     154.1    î34.3        778.8     -                                                  7.
Bote Coer                   ~~~~~~~~~56,936   62,9657  08,498   57.437  245,838  OFLi      63.0      66.5      5y.4      245.8                   .         -                             -        ..                                       5 &
Croocol Cocîî>îrcîcooo     ~~11,380   12,594   13,192    lIAIS      48.170     11.4       12.6      15.7      11.5       40.2         -                                                          -        -          -         -42
Forcîlcd ioiceiîîceoooî      ~~~5,188   11,485   18,152  2n,5îs      58,286      5.1      11.1      18,2       21.5       56.3        -          -         -         -         -        -         -        -         - 
Coototol                    ~~~~~~~~~~73,14    87,866  101.330   91,450  553.294  13.4    87. i     101.4      81.4      353.3--                                                -        -        -                   -         -
Cote Cool                    ~~~~~~ ~~~7,525    7,326    7,515    3,596  30,     -          -         -         -          -     ~      6        75        75        75        3.
Fbroirolîoclîooeolieo        ~~~1,585    1,505    1,805    138        45                   -          -                               2.6         .         .         .       3.                              
9,677    1:7  -:-                                               -          -          1.1 115              1.       12         6.6~      -                            
i.iîicC000 l'elle illîcOoO      6~707    1,372  j 2104    2,9011     7,34 1                -                    -                     0         1,4       2.1        24 71                        -        -               
9,î    î.o  41441,1              316        -          -                                          .         88       1.        11.8      43.2       -                  -         -         -
CooeCooî                    ~~~~~~~~                 ~~22.795 -       22,793     V 82.                                    22.7 P                                                                                                            22.8
Sîîlotol                     ~~~~~~~~                ~~24,587    - - - 26,367   26.4       -                    -         26.4                                                                                                               2         - --.-26.4
Cooo Cool                  ~~~~~~~~742,452   061.034  714,M9   <4,719   2.827,830    388.5  577.2   500.0     301.9    2,863.0       162,6'    252.8      181.:1    20.5      837.0      11.      32.:2    97.6    I10,2       245.2      2,927.8
1'Cytiîtl Cot lilcoClîOe    06083Z  15.157    MS    83,602          306,930     01.5      $0.9       72.7      56.7      19.           38       26        128        >.8       6.        2.5      3.       1.        16.2      34, à         M
Cîroc-o  Fcîiîîoo                     63,«    131.270  206.456  219;375       025,278     10.1      103.5     134.1     144.4      42.71       1.        4.4        31.2      3.5       11.3       1 .6     1.3       35       996       7.          625.0
Cool                       908~~~~~~~~~.213 1.f,=561 2,U0,432 907,M9   3,94Z2056    69. 1  761.6    713.4      597.0    2, 78. 1     106.      321.2     110.2      146.8     022.0     10.3      39.8    115,      186.0      350.8      3,962.1



ANNEX 8
- 93--                         Table 5
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
IDA Disbursement Categories
Disbursement Categories                      Base Cost plus                    Rounded for
Physical Contingencies          Disbursement Schedule
(CFAF million)          ------- US$ '000
I. Livestock Services
- Delineation of Pastoral
Units                              57               233
- Vaccines, Field Tests and
Ancillary Staff                   351             1,433
- Civil Works                          184              751
- Vehicles and Equipment
and their Operation               430             1,755
Subtotal:Category I         1,022             4,172                4,200
II.  Drugs and Feed Supplements             156               637                  600
III.  Mineral Licks                           95               387                  400
IV.  Stock Watering Points                  466             1,901                1,900
V.&VI.  Credit                                  247             1,008                1,000
VII.  Abattoir Equipment                      32               131                  130
VIII.  Organization and Management            319             1,302                1,300
IX.  Revolving Fund                         123               500                  500
X.  Unallocated                           362              1,480               1,470
TOTAL                       2,822            11,518               11 500
1/ TabIe 4.



- 94 -                         ANNEX 8
Table 6
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
IDA Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year
and Quarter                                  Quarterly               Cumulative
-----------US$ million------------
FY 1979
September Quarter                                 0.5                       0.5
December Quarter                                  0.3                       0.8
March Quarter                                     o.6                       1.4
June Quarter                                      o.6                       2.0
FY. 1980
September Quarter                                 0.8                       2.8
December Quarter                                  O.6                       3.4
March Quarter                                     0.9                       4.3
June Quarter                                      0.9                       5.2
FY 198 
September Quarter                                 o.8                       6.o
December Quarter                                  0.6                       6.6
March Quarter                                     0.8                       7.4
June Quarter                                      0.8                       8.2
FY 1982
September Quarter                                 0.7                       8.9
December Quarter                                  0.5                       9.4
March Quarter                                     0.7                      10.1
June Quarter                                      0.7                      10.8
FY: 1983
September Quarter                                 0.3                      11.1
December Quarter                                  0.2                      11.3
March Quarter                                     0.2                      11.5
June Quarter



ANEX 8
-95 -                                                               Table 7
SECOND 1IV8OCK PROJE0 T
P130ECT COSTS AND FINAllING
Go-crament Cash Fli
Year 1      Year 2       Yenr 3       Yenr 4       Year 5       Year 6        Year 7       ysar 8       Yena  9      Year 10       Year 11
-------------------------------------------(CA                   ------------------------- ------------------------------------------
i,7nflow
IDA Credit                                        715         778          699          628         -             _             -           -                          - _
EDF G-rnt                                         188         320          164          168                                     -           -             -            -
P.sto.-llsta - Druge & F.ed
Suppleensts                       12          12           60           79        110           111          113         113           113           113           113
- Well Maintenance
Fees                               9          23           42           48         63            63           63          63             b3           63            63
Additcnal LivestocX Tex Revenues  2/               5          33            66          104       121           143           160         166          l1'2          179           179
Total                                     929       1,166         1,031        1,027        294           317          336         342            348          353           353
i.  Outils
ProJcut Cfuts                                     925       1,139          989          891         -2     -             -            -            -                   -              -
Vaccines                                          -           -            -             -          92             93          9h           94.           3.           94             94.
Live-tonk Depaptneat Vehicles
snd Equips..at                                  -           -                         -          i4i           141          141         141            141          141'          141
DO-s & Feed Supplerents                           -           -            -            -          110           1lf           113         113           113          113           113
SERAPyY Ch-rg-e                                   -           -            -                       238           238          238          238           238          238           238
IDA Debt S--vice                                    2           8           13            21        21            21            21          21            21           21             21
Total                                     927       1,147         1,002          912        602           604          607         6Q7           607           607           607
C.  Susplus (Deficît)
Annual                                              2          19           29           115       (308)        (287)         (271)       (265)         (259)         (254)         (254)
Cu-ulati-e                                          2          21           50          165       (143)          (430)        (701)       (986)       (1,225)      (1,479)        (1,733)
/  C,rrest princa tiroh-gh Yensr 4; constant prs-es thineaftes; ail itegs  _pr..essd only in cnsatant 1978 prises in nther tables inflated at 7%/year through Yea- 4.
The aunnal deficit un conatset 1978 prices  -.ud    dlins  en  sC-AF 230  tillion An Y-sr 5 te  M78F 190 eillian it  Ysar -1.
2/ Net Tas  revenue in 1975 vas CFAF 160 million, shen eport taxes yitlded CFA? 120 maillion grose (Anes 1, Table 4) or 50% ef thi  theoreticel yieJd.
I. ts arsuned he-  that by PY1 (1978/79), thc effective yleld  il1 be b       %50,  f the theeretical yield of CFAi1 400 aillios  and that collecti on costs of cpert
taxes viii have laorenscd by CFAF 5 eliliv, i.c. an in-cesse 1  net recelpts Of CFAF 75  AillesO.  It is further asconed thît thi  effective yield s             -
1ncrease te 75% in PY4 and aubsequcntly incsease in line  8ith the nth-project production (Aniex 9, Table 4).  Finally, it la assumed thit 80% cf the
nti-1ons  l-tvstoo     tax       C r venue can be nttriboted to thi  project aren, these livestock tax revenue la PYI =-lthout thi  proe3ct vold be CFAF 183  lllien.



-96-
Q  9
Table t
SECOND lIVESTOCY n.JKCT
PROJECT boElflT2
Cattie Eierd Prolction ('000 head)
IID   1    2           3           4            5           6           7           8           9          10         il-ZO
Ctv
Seginning of year                     1,390       1,404       1,426       1,438       1,454       1,467       1,492       1,495       1,495       1,495        1,495       1,495
+ Transfer                              243         245         247         251         251         265         2S5         301         303         306          309         310
- Detch.                                 56          49          50          34          34          35          36          36          36           36          36          36
- Culled                                173         174         185         201         204         205         246         265         267         270         273          274
On hand year end                      1,404       1,426       1,438       1,454       1,467       1,492       1,495       1,495       1,495        1,495       1,495       1,495
I cifer,, 3-4 ayers
Segsinnia of year                       255         258         264         264         279         300         316         319         322         326          327         327
-Decaths                                 10           8           3           5           6           6           b           6           6           7           7            7
-C.11.d                                 -             3           5           8           8           9           9          10          10          10           10          10
on hand year end                        245         247         251         251         265         285         301         303         306          309         310         310
Heifer, 2-3 vears
Biginning of year                       269         272         27Z         285         306         322         325         329         333         334          334         334
--Deaths                                 il           8           S           6           6           6           6           7           7           7           7            7
On band yeor end                        258         264         264         279         300         316         319         322         326          327         327         3;7
Re-lers. 1-2 vear.
aBicnnin8 of yecr                      292         292         30 3        322         339         342         346         351         352         352          352         352
-Deathi                                  20          20          18          16          17          17          17          18          18          18          18           18
On band year end                        272         272         285         306         322         325         329         333         334         334         334          334
Calves, 0-1 yenrs
Calve.  boro                            834         842         870         892         901         910         925         927         927         927         927         927
Fmale  born                            417         421         435        446         450         455         462          463         463         463         463         463
- Deaths                              125         1IS         113         107         108        109          111         111         111         111         111         111
On hand year end                      292         303         322         339         342         346         351         352         352         352         352         352
-  ales born                            417         421         435        446          451         455         463         464         464         464         464         464
-- Deaths                               173   -    168          161         152         153         155         157         15S         158         158         158         15S
On bond yeor end                      244         253         274         294         298         300         306         306         306         306         306         306
leL 1-2 Vet
Sagening of Year                        242         244         253         274         294         298         300         306         306         306         306         306
-Decth,                                  27          24          23          22          21          21          21          21          21          21          21          21
-Sale                                    24          24          25          27          29          30          30          31          31          31          31          31
On band year end                        191         196         205         225         244         247         249         248         24S         248         248          24S
Maêel, 2-3 vear.
8egiooing of yser                       189         191         196         205         225         244         247         249         248         248         248         248
-DchS                                     7           6           6           4           4           5           5           5           5           5           5           5
-Sala                                    38          38          39          41          45          49          49          50          50          50          50          50
On hbnd year end                        144         147         151         160         176         190         193         194         193         193         193         193
Malte, 3-4 vears
sauining of yaar                        143         144         147         151         160         176         190         193         194         193         193         193
- Deathe                                  6           4           4           3           3           4           4           4           4           4           4           4
- Sale                                   43          43          44          45          48          53          57          58          58          58          58          58
On hand yenr end                         94          97          99         103         109         119         129         131         132         131         131         131
Ma1e, ovar 4 voira
Beagincing of year                      270         273         274         278         286         287         293         307         326         340         351         351
* Tranfers                               93          94          97          99         103         109         119         129         131         132         131         131
-Decth,                                  il          il          il           8           8           8           a           9           9           9          10          10-
- Sal                                    79          82          82          83          94          95          97         101         108         112         121         121
on hbd year end                         273         274         278         286         287         293         307         326         340         351         351         351
Total Animal Numbar
Total Eead                            3,420       3,479       3,567       3,697       3,810       3,913       3,979       4,010       4,032       4,046       4,047       4,047 i
Total Animl Unit,                     2,881       2,923       2,971       3,064       3,170       3,267       3,322       3,352       3,374       3,)88       3,389       3,389
5..
Cuil Cous                               173         174         185         201         204         205         246         265         267         270         273       , 274
Halae, 1-2 yaars                         24          24          25          27          29          30          30          31          31          31          31          31
Haies, 2-3 year                          38          38          39          41          45          49          49          50          50          50          50          50
Malte, 3-4 yerl                          43          43          44          45          48          53          57          58          58          58          58          58
Hales, over 4 yeare                      79          82          82          83          94          95          97         101         108         112         121         121
Culla HLfers                            -             3           5           a           8           9           9          10          10          10          10          10
TOTAL                                       357         364         380         405         428         441         488         515         524         531         543         544
Tachnical Coaffcients
Calvi4g rat*                   %         60          60          61          62          62          62          62          62          62          62          62          62
Mortality rate
-Hifer calvee                  %         30          28          26          24          24          24          24          24          24          24          24          24
-Bul calvo$                    7         42          40          37          34          34          34          34          34          34          34          34          34
-Helfers, 1-2 yare             7.         7           7           6           5           5           5           5           5           5
-Males 1-2 ye.&                7.        il          10           9           8           7           7           7           7           7           7           7           7
-Cattle ovr 2 yaare            %          4           3           3           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2
Coi rullins rata               7.        12.4        12.4        13.0        14.0        14.0        14.0       1.5         17.7        17.9        18.1        18.3        18.3
Haifar culling rat             7.       -             1           2           3           3           3           3           3           3           3           3           3
sale,  f mi.s, 1-2 years    %            10          10          10          10          10          10          10          10          10          10          10          10
Salas of mies, 2-3 yecrs    I            20          20          20          20          20          20          20          20          20          20          20          20
Sales  f _les, 3-4 ye-ra    1            30          30          30          30          30          30          30          30          30          30          30          30
Sale of mes, over 4            %         30          30          30          30          33          33          33          33          33          33          34.5        34.5
Offt-ke raet                    I        10.5        10.5        10.7        11.0        11.2        11.3        12.3        12.8        13.0        13.1        13.4        13.4
A-   ers.z  to t-e c.ttle           to-      e  r-  e.' -'re  orlor t. the _377 c:o.r t.



- 97 - 
52CONIO IXYBSTOOCNV SEDC!
PROJECT *2oE17S
C-1Ilrd Dev lot_nt 9.d.1 ( 000 h.dl
BD   I          2                3               4                  5              6                 7               *                9-20
Breedimn Feerale.
E.Beeiins of ye.r                           157              159              160             162              164               166             169               171            174               174
+ Transfer                                   20               20               21               21              21                22              22                22             20                20
-OD -ch-                                      7                5                5                5               5                 5               6                 5              6                 6
- C114                                        Li              14               14              14               14                14              14                14             14                14
0O  haod y..r -rd                            159             160              162              164             166               169             171               174            174               174
Fe-nl.s.4-5 voir.
B8ginnins of y..r                            20               21               21              21               22                22              22                23             23                23
- Dtahs 
_On e.  y -                                                                    _                                -                 -               -                 3               3                 3
On 4.oi ye.r cr4                             20               21              21               21               22                22             22                20              20                20
FemSe.s 3-4 veure
-   Begoieg  oSf y-                          22               22               22              23               23                23              24                24             24                24
- Deth     __1                                                 1                I                1               1                 1               1                 1               1                 i
Onhand yeh  td                               21               21               21              22               22                22              23                23             23                23
FaIes, 2-3 yeare
Srgmnnmg of yhar                             23               23               24              24               24                25              25                25             25                25
- Deoths                                      i                1                I               1                I                                 1                 1
On hànd ys-r ctd                             22               22               23              23               23                24              24                24             24                24
Feil.e. 1-2 vears
1.giotins of y..r                            25               26               26              26               27                27              27                27             28                28
- Dortho                                      2                2                2               2                2                 2               2                 2              3                 3
0n h»d year .d                               23               24               24              24               25                25              25                25             23                25
Clve. -8r -                                        79               80              80               61               82                83             85                86              87                87
FTe_a. Bor,                                        39              40               40               41               41               41              42                43              43                43
- .4ths                                            13              14               14               14               14                14             15                15              t3                15
On hnd e.r end                                     26              26               29               27               27               27              27                28              28                28
e.les Soms              -                          40              40               40               40              41                42              43                43             44                44
- D..ths                                     16               16              16               16               16                17             17                17              la                18
0O  h-nd yar- .d                             24               24              24               24               25                25             26                26              26                2
N41.I. 1-2 vy.rs
Bninning of yO?r                             23               24               24              24               24                25              25                26             26                26
B.Si-t.8 of Y.-  23                                                                                                                       26~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    3
- 0e.th.                                      2                3                3               3                3                 S              3
-Oeh..dy-..d                                  21              21               21              21               21                22             22                23              23                23
54.1.. 2-3 yv r;
BegîoininS ù7f   r                           21               21               21              21               21                21              22               22              23                23
- l.atl.                                      1                1                1               1                1                 1              1                 I               1                 1
0-  had yir end                              20               20               20              20               26                20             21                21              22                22
9.les, 3-4 y..r.
B5.inut1g otf y7r                             20,             20               20               20               20               20              20                21             21                22
-~~~~~ ~~~~~ 8-  -S 8                                                                                 6         8          *            5                                6 B      
On lamd year Md                                                12               12              12               12                12              12               13              13                13
Haldo. 4-5 yeore
B5gîiet.g of y.r                              1                il               12              12               12                12              12               12              13                13
-2D.tb.                                        I                I                I               I                I                 I               I                 I              I                 I
-Sl..                                          4                4                5               5                5                 5               5                5               5                 5
on hnd y-r *rd                                 6                6                6               6                6                 6               6                6               7                 7
AI1. ov r 5 y«r,
Tqîoaluf  oi yer                             14               1                14              14               14                14              14               14              14                14
DOr..ths                                      6                6               6                6                6                 6               6                6               6                 7
-  .tlh.                                     1                               -                                 ------
On h1nd ySren                                                  6                6               6                6                 6              6                 6               6                -7
0eIIard y.ar *1d                              4               14               14              14               14                14              14               14              ;4                14
Total Ar.i1.                                      367             371              374              378             382               385             390               394            396               396
Total Animl Units                                 476             482              486              491             40
Cu11 id1t feul1.                             il               14               14              14               14                14             14                14              14                14
Cull FaMe1. s, 4-5 y-ars                     _ 
Mlaes  3-4 years                              8                B                8               B                B                 8              8                 8               8                 9
Halte, 4-5 yer.                               4                4                5               523
Cull ;dult.aIe.                             .5                 6                6               66                                 6              6                 6               6                 7
TOTAI.                                             28              32               33               33              33                33              33                36             36                38
Torlaeîral Co.Ofiotasts
Rsprod.ctiv  Rate 7                          50               50              50               50               50                50             50                50              50                50
>8ort.îity Rate
- feral. .lI"s                             35              35               35               35               3S               35              335               35
- MI* calv.s                               40              40               40               40              40                40              40                40             40                40
- - fe lss 1-2 y.tr.                         10                9               9                9                9                9               9                 9              9                 9
- M1*, 1-2 yur.                            12               il              il               il              il                Il              Il                Il              1                1
-o .s, vetr 2 y..tr                         4                3               3                3                3
Culi.S r-ts   dult f.e-.    4                 6.9              8.8               .98            8.6              8.5               8.4          . B,3                .2              .0               i
Colli- r-t.,  1d34 y..   7                   40               40              40               40               40               40              40                40             40                40
Sale. rota, roi.. 3-4 y.aro 7.               40              40               40               40              40                40              40                40             40                40
0.1.. r.ts. _1o.. 4-5 y.ar.  7               40              40               40               40              40                40              40                40             40                40
Offtake rat. Z                                7.6              8.6             S.8              8.7              9.6               B.6            B.5               9.1            9.1               9.4



CHAD,
SECOND LIVESTOCKI PROJEL'r
Hend Dotent Withooe tht Poolent
Unit
Unit         Otite    BD          i         2         3         4         S         6         7         S          9         10        Il        12        13         14        15        1671                  18        19        20
'009)
ColS Cont                             No            20    3,460    3,495      3,530    3,565       3,600    3,636    3,673    3,710    3,747    3,784    3,822    3,860    3,809    3,938    3,977    4,0F17   '4,057                   4,098    4,139    4.180    4,180
Mans  1-2 ynr                        No            18      432       436        441      6'.5       450       454       459       463       460       472        477       482       407       492       697       302        507        512        517       522       522
SUIe..  2-3 ye-s                      No           25       950        960       969       979       909       998    1,000      1,019    1,029    1,039    1,049    1,060    1,070    1.081            1,092      1,103    1,114       1,125    1,136    1,148    1.168
Maies., 3-4 ysr -ON                                 30    1,290      1.301     1,316    1,329    1.342    1,356    1,369    1,383    1,393            1,411    1,423      1,439    1,454      1,468      1,483     1,498    1,513       1,328      1,543     1.558    1,538
Maie  ot i- 4yos_                     No           35    2,765      2,793    2,821    2,849    2,877    2,906    2,935    2,964    2,994    3,024    3,054    3,085    3,116    3.147                   3,170      3,210    3.242       3,275    3,307    3,340    3,340
Colt helisea                          No            25      -          - -       -         -         -         -         -         -               -         -         -         -         -               -         -         -          -          -         425       425
M114 2/                               '00  i        25    2,0        2.527      2.552   2.578    2.604       2.630    2.656    2.682    2.709    2.736    2,764    2.791    2.919    2.048              3.026      2.905    2.934    .2,96        2.993    3.023    3.023
Onheneal                                                       11,399   11,514   11,629   11,745   11,062    11,980   12,100   12,221   12,344   12,466   12,591   12,212    12,045   12,974    13,10<    13,235   13,362                    13,561   13,635    14,196   16,196
Cou1 adoî  feoe                       No           40       440        444       449       453       458       462       467       472       476        481       496       491       491       491        491       491       691        491        491       491       691
Co tO,ols    -15  ets            No           60       -          -         -    -         -              -         -         -          -         -         -         104       104       1014       104       104       104         104       104       104       1:04
Moles, 3-4 ynat                       Ne            30       240       242       245       247       250       250        255       252       261       262       265       268       260        260       269       368       268         268       268       268        268
Mains, 4-5 y--t                       No           40        160       162       163       166       160       170        172       123       175       177       179       100       100        180       180       180       180         180       180       180        195
Co1  adolt nais,                      No           40        200       202       204       206       208       210        212       214       212       219       221       223       223        223       223       223       223         223       223       223        223
MIlk 3/                                000 1        25       593       598       604       610       617       623       629       635        642       648       654       654       654       654        644       654       654         644       654       654       604
Sohitatl                                                        1,633     1,649     1,665    1,602    1,701    1,717         1,735     1,251    1,770    1,787    1,005    1,920          1,920    1,920      1,920      1,920    1,920       1,920    1,920       1,920     1,920
ihnnp anA Gbats   4/
Me-  V/                               ON             2.5  2,460    2,534    2,610    2,680         2,769    2,852      2,937    3,025    3,116    3,116    3,116    3.116    3,116    3,116              3,116     3,116    5,116       3,116    3,116       3,116     3,1
Mi1k 6/000 1                                        25       689       710       731       753       775       799        823       847       847       847       847       847        847       847       847       047        847        82   047  8     47  847
lobotatl                                                        3,149    3,244    3,341    3,441    3,544    3,651    3,760    3,072    3,963    3,963    5,963    3,963    3,963    5,963                    3,963      3,963    3,967       3,963    3,963       3,963    3,963
TOUAI 000020T0                                                 16.101   16.406   16.635   16.860    17.107    17.340    17.595   17.044    10.077   18.216   18.559   18.660b   18j28   18.857   18.986    19.118   19.250                   19.504   19.518   20.079   20.079
1/Aseoing 1  . annul h-ed gotnh ton  .tain  Sp t0 20%  -d for tenni   p t  10%  --e stîs tino herd.
2/  A,ao:l-  120 i Pe,1t iattit,goo
3/  Anso,sn  300 i p-tlneîotsi
4/  Aseonins 3% annul g-oth Op t. 207, oh ot  nnsting herd (7 yeatsl
V/ SOft.ke 30% st CFA2 2,500/hsad.
6/  42   . latating anîne1s inta tt1fl-ck, 20 1/lenttaing ai /nt



SEC0OD LIVOOTOCK PROJgCT
_    PBOJEMi bltNEFITS
5lerd OUh1t Nitb the Pro1jet
Unit
loin        Poi-t   inD        S         I         3        4_        5        6         7        8        9         10        il       12        13        14       15        16         17       18        19        20
C&etle_                                                                                            _                                                       oll                                        ecr
Cula  Love                          No           20    3,460    3,480    3,700    4,020    4,080    4,100    4,920    5,300    5,340    5,400    5,460    5,480    5,480    5,480    5,480    5,480    5,48D               5,480    5,480    5,480    5,480
Malec, 1-2 y-e-s                    No           18      432      432       450       486      522       540      540       558      550       558      558       558       558      558       558       558      558        558       558      558       558
Malta, 2-3 yesns                    Na           25      950       950      975    1,025    1,125    1,225    1,225    1,250    1,250    1,250    1,250    1,250    1,250    1,250    1,250    1.250    1,250              1,250    1,250    1,250    1,250
NuIts, 3-4 years                    No          90    1,290    1,290    1,320    1,350    1,440    1,590    1,710    1,740    1,740    1,740    1,740    1.740    1,740    1,740    1,740    1,740    1,740                1,740    1,740    1,740    1,740
nais, aven 4 ysans                  Na           35    2,765    2,870    2,870    2,905    3,290    3,325    3,395    3,535    3,780    3,920    4,233    4,235    4,235    4,235    4,235    4.235-   4,235               4,235    4,235    4,235    4,235
CoU1 hsf..e.                        No           25  - 1,000        75      125       200      200       225      225       250      250       250      250       250       250      250       250       250      250        250       250      250       250
Milk 3/                              000 1       25    2 502    2,526    2,610    2,676    2,703    2,730   2_775    2.781    2,781    2.781    2781    2.781    2.781    2.781    2,781    2,781    2.781                 2.781    2.781    2.781    2.781
Sabtonaî                                                   11,399   11,623   12,050   12,662   13,360   13,735   14,790   15,414   15,699   15,899   16.274   16,294   16,294   16.294   16,294   16,294   16,294    16,294   16,2%    16,294   16,294
Cae   Z/
Cu11  dult f.ttlaa                  No           40      440       560      560       560      560       560      560       560      560       560       560      560       560      560       560       560      560        560       560      560       560
Cou  femalec, 4-5 ynans             No           60      -         -        -         -        -         -        -         180      I0B       180       100      130       180      180       100       180      180        180       180       180      180
Yal.. 3-4 ye.st                     No           30      240       240      240       240      240       740      240       240      240       280       280      280       280      280       280       280      280        280       280       280      280
Mals * 4-5 y.an.                    Na           40      160       160      200       200      200       208      200       2D0      200       200       200      200       200       200      200       200       200       200       200       200      200
CoUI adot  ale.                     Na          40       200       240      240       240      240       240      240       240      240       280       280      280       200      288       280       280.      280       280       280       288      280
mi0k 3/                             '000 1       25      593       600      600       600      615       623      630       645      653       653       653      653       655      653       655       653      653        653       653       653      653
Subtotal                                                    1,633    1,800    1,840    1,848    1,855    1,863    1,878    2,065    2,073    2,153    2,153    2,153    2,153    2,153    2,153    2,153    2,153               2,153    2,153    2,153    2,153
Sh_ep aod Geais k!
Yeot 5/                             Na          2.5   2,460    2,534    2,784    2,867    2,954    3,042    3,133    3,227    3,324    3,324    3,324    3,324    3,324    3,324    3,324    3,324    3,324                3,324    3,324    3,324    3,324
ilk 6/                             '000 1       25      689       710      731       753      775       799      823       847       847      847       847      047       847       847      740       847       847       847       847       847      847
sabtaesl                                                    3,149    3,244    3,515    3,620    3,729    3,841    3,956    4,074    4,171    4,171    4,171    4,171    4,171    4,171    4,171    4,171    4,171               4,171    4,171    4,171    4,171
ToaIt vaith 9raient                                        16,181   16,667   17,405   18.130   18,944   19,439   20.624   21,553   21,943   22,223   22,598   22,610   22,618   22,618   27,610   22.618   22,618    22,618   22,618   22,618   22,618
Total aithaat PFraiet                                      16i181   16_406   162635   16_868   17,107   17,348   17.595   17.844   18.077   18.216   18.359   18.600   18_728   18.857   18.986   19.118   19.250    19.384   19.518   20.079   20.079
îenotsental OtB-fir vtnith Pajot                                0       261      779    1,262    1,837    2.091    3,029    3,709    3.866   4_007   4.239    4,018    3.890    3.761    3,632    3,500   35368                  3.234    31.00    Z2539    2,539
1/ Ste rablt 1.
2/ Sea trble 2.
3/ MIk yi.elda:  120 1/nean/laotatiag nov, 300 1/yanoar o   nat- 1.
4+/ UAs,olng ap to 37. *nn-.l geasth UP te 20h abave ei-tiang houd ( yeara).
3/ offtakt 32% at CYAF 2,500/head ataetiog ytan 2.
6/ 427 lanrttiOa   aaia,als in ttali flik, 20 1/lantartig aais,alfyosn/



CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT BENEFITS
Change of Herd Value
Year 20                        Year 20
Before Development                Without Prolect                   With Project
Unit      No.-        Total Value          No.         Total Value          No.         Total Value
Value      'o00       million CFAF        '°00         million CFAF        '000         million CFAF
A.  Cattle
Cow8                                   30       1,404         42,120              1,685        50,550              1,495         44,850
Beifers, 3-4 years                      30         245          7,350               295         8,850                310          9,300
Heifers, 2-3 years                      25         258          6,450               310         7,750                327          8,175
Heifers, 1-2 years                      18         272         4,896                326         5,868                334          6,012
Heifer calves                            8         292          2,336               350         2,800                352          2,816
Bull calves                             8         244          1,952                293         2,344                306          2,448
Males, 1-2 years                        18         191          3,438               229         4,122                248          4,464
Males, 2-3 years                       25          144         3,600                173         4,325                193          4,825               o
Males, 3-4 years                       30          94          2,820                113         3.390                131          3,930
Males over 4 years                     35         273          9,555                328         8.200                351         12.285
Total Cattle                                3,420         84,517              4,102        98,199             4,047          99,105
B. Camels
Breeding Females                       50         159          7,950                175         8,750                174          8,700
Females, 1-5 years                     35          86          3,010                 95         3,325                 92          3,220
Female calves                          10          26             260                29           290                 28            280
Male calves                             10         24             240                26           260                 26            260
Males, 1-5 years                       30           58         1,740                 64         1,920                 65          1,950
Males over 5 years                     50           14            700                15           750                 14             700
Total camelas                                 367         13,900                404        15,295                399         15,110
C.  Small Ruminant                           2      3,280           6.560             3,936         7,872              3,936          7.872
Total Value                                              104,977                          121,366                           122,087
F  -          _     =                            l~_                !tiD
Incremental Herd Value compared to
- before development                                                                           16.389                           _17.110
- herd vithout Project                                                                                                              721



- 101 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        Economic benefits can be readily quantified for the livestock
services component of the project, to which most organization and manage-
ment costs can be attributed, and which together represent 70% of project
base costs. For these items, annual economic costs and benefits used in
calculating the economic rate of return are shown in Table 1.
2.        The following assumptions and methods have been used:
(a) incremental production is detailed at Annex 9, Tables 1-4.
Production in the 'with-project' herd models increases to
PY10 and remains constant thereafter. 'Without-project'
production increases throughout the project life, assumed
to be 20 years, as a function of increasing herd numbers.
Incremental production peaks in PY10 and declines there-
after. The 'without-project' herd model does not, how-
ever, adequately capture the effects of overgrazing and
thereby overstates production;
(b) in Annex 9, production is valued at 1977 market prices;
in view of the resumption of normal export trade to
Nigeria in February 1977, observed Chadian market prices
are considered to reflect world prices since Nigeria is
also importing from the main world meat suppliers.
Although Bank staff price projections for Argentinian
exports to the EEC indicate a real increase in beef
prices through 1985, the incremental production of
the project is valued at constant real border prices,
for reasons given in the text at para. 5.02. One
adjustment has to be made to Annex 9 values, however,
since production is valued at 1977 prices whereas
project base costs are expressed in terms of March 1978
prices; the value of incremental production has been
increased by 7.5%;
(c) project costs for the livestock services and organization
and management components are detailed in Annexes 2 and 7;
some items are not attributable to these components,
however, and they are excluded from Table 1, namely
vaccines for the area outside the project area, and
consultants for follow-up project preparation and
project monitoring. On the other hand, the project
would use resources that are not included in project



- 102 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
costs although they are additional to those used in
the 'without-project' situation, namely operating costs
of the Herder Training Center at Massakory, as detailed
in Annex 4;
(d) taxes: exported animals bear duty at 5% of FOB but it
is not yet clear to what extent such taxes are being
paid in 1977 (text, para. 5.02) and are thereby re-
flected in market prices; the value of incremental
production could be increased by perhaps 2%, but this
is ignored and border prices are assumed to be iden-
tical to market prices;
(e)  standard conversion factor for local cost component 0.85;
(f) labor: since unskilled labor is a negligible item in
project costs, no adjustment has been made to this item
for economic costs although wages do exceed alternative
income foregone as small farmers/herders.  Livestock
Department staff are valued at their salaries.
3.        Using these assumptions, the economic rate of return over 20 years
would exceed 100%. This .high return reflects the substantial and rapid
benefits arising from the vaccination program; net benefits are positive in
all but the first year of the project. In effect, the benefit:cost ratio
is a more appropriate measure of the utility of this kind of project; at a
15% discount rate, the ratio is 3.8:1; at 20%, 3.6:1; or at 10%, 4.8:1.
4.        Given the risks pertaining to all projects in Chad and those
particular to this project, rates of return were examined for circumstances
substantially different from the base case, with the following results:
Project Life
20 years          5 years
Base data                   over 100%          over 100%
Benefits reduced by 25%            86%               56%
Results for the five-year case indicate that, even if Government and bene-
ficiaries were to cease all contributions to ongoing costs after the project
disbursement period, the project would still yield a very high return. And
although returns are quite sensitive to benefits, a 25% reduction in benefits
would nonetheless provide a 56% return.
5.        Given the known high returns to vaccination programs, the economic
rate of return to the non-vaccination components, which are broadly equivalent
to associations of pastoralists, has been calculated. The corresponding
annual economic costs and benefits are shown at Table 2. The following
additional assumptions have been made:



- 103 -                       ANNEX 10
Page 3
(a)  benefits: it has earlier been assumed (text, para. 5.01)
that of the 75 associations of pastoralists to be consti-
tuted, only about 55 would be fully operational by the end
of the project and that the latter, including about 25% of the
livestock population in the project area, would generate about
40% of incremental production; and that the 20 constituted but
not fully operational associations (text, para. 5.03, set (ii)),
which include about 10% of the livestock population in the
project area, would generate about 10% of incremental produc-
tion. In the remainder of the project area, in which asso-
ciations would not have been constituted, 50% of incremental
production would be generated by 65% of the livestock popu-
lation; the services to be provided in this area would be
primarily, though not exclusively, vaccinations which would
give rise to an incremental production/livestock population
factor of 0.77 (50/65). Applying this factor to the project
area in which associations would have been constituted, it
follows that 23% of all incremental production would be
attributable to the non-vaccination services provided to
associations;
(b)  costs: detailed assumptions for the share of economic costs
to be attributed to services and activities provided in that
part of the project area where associations would have been
constituted are shown in Table 2.
Using these assumptions, the economic rate of return over 20 years would be
35%. Rates of return were examined for several modifications to the base
case, with the following results:
Base date                                   35%
Benefits reduced by:   10%                  30%
20%                25%
30%                19%
40%                13%
Benefits increased by: 10%                  39%
20%                44%
30%                49%
40%                54%
Benefits lagged by:    2 years              19%
3 years            12%



CHAD
SECOND BRVBE%20CK PROJECT
ECONOMIC RETURNS
Economic Cost6 and Benefits of Livestock Services
Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4    Year 5    Year 6       Year 7     Year 8       Year 9    Year 10      Year 11-20
---------   -------------------------------------------(CFAF Million)-------------------------------------
Innremental Costs
Delineation of Pastoral           28            28         -            -         -          -          -           -           -          -            -
Units
Vaccines i/                       62            62         68            68        70         71         72          72          72         72           72
Drugs and Feed Supplements  /   129            117         68            82        84         85         86          86          86         86           86
Field Station                     87            97         -            -         -          _          _           _           -          _            -
Vehicles and Equipment 3/        109            74        143           104       108        108        108         108         108        108          108
Stock Watering Points  7          85           142        187           177       182        182        182         182         182        182          182
Organisation and Management       87            57         57            57       -          -          -           -           -          -            -
Herder Training Center 2          49            49         49            49       -          -          -           -           -          -            -
Livestock Department Staff  /   129            129        129           129       129        129        129         129         129        129          129
Subtotal                765          755         701          666        573       575         577        577          577        577         577
Less: Local costs at SCF 7/          46            45         42            40        34         35         35          35          35         35           35
Total Incremental Coats             719           710        659           626       539        540        542         542          542       542          542
Incremental Benefits
Valuation per Annex 9            261           770      1,262         1,837     2,091      3,029      3,709       3,866       4,007      4,239        4,018  8s
Adjusted to March 1978 basis    281            828      1,357         1,975     2,248      3,256      3,987       4,156       4,308      4,557        4,319
Net Incremental Benefits           (gL3)          118        698         1,349     1,709      2,716      3,445       3.614        3.766     4.015        3777     /
V  86% of total; increases after PY4 as a function of herd growth with the project.                                                                                       CD
/ Excluding financing of stocks; increases after PY4 as a function of herd growth with the project.
/ After PY4, average of PY1 - 4.
After PY4, average of PY3 and 4.
Annex 4 costs adjusted to March 1978 basis.
i CFAF 120 million at 1977 prices , adjusted to March 1978 basis.
1 Local coats: 40% stAndard conversion factor: 0.85; adjustment is 6% of the subtotal of,
incremental coste.
8/ Declines through PYl1-20, to CFAE 2.539 million in PY20.
9/ Declinesto CFAF 2,187 million in PY20.



CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ECONOMIC RETURNS
Economic Costs and Benefits of Associations of Pastoralists
Year 1        Year 2      Year 3      Year 4    Year 5    Year 6        Year 7      Year 8       Year 9    Year 10       Year 11-20
Incremental Costs
Delineation of Pastoral
Units                            28            28          -            -          -          -           -           -            -          -            -
Drugs and Feed Supplements         97            88          51           62         63         64          64          64           64         64           64
Field Stations                     65            73          -            -          -          -           -           -            -          -
Vehicles and Equipment 2/          55            37          72           52         54         54          54          54           54         54           54
Stock Watering Pointe y            64           107         140          133        137        137         137         137          137        137          137
Organization and Manage-
ment i/                          65            43          43           43         -          -           -           -            -          -            _
HerdefTraining Center 1/           37            37          37           37         -          -           -           -            -          -            -
Livestock Department               65            65          65           65         65         65          65          65           65         65           65
Staff g/
Subtotal                     476           478         408          392        319       320         320         320           320        320         320
Less:  6%, 2                           29            29          24           24         19         19          19          19           19         19           19
Total Incremental Coets               447           449         384          368        300        301        301          301          301        301          301
Incremental Benefits j/               65            190         312          454       517        749         917         956          990      1,048          993  /
Net Incremental Benefits             (382)         (259)       ( 72)          86        217        448         616         655          689        747          692 -f/
1/75% of total incremental c0t6 at Table i.
.;/50% of total incremental co0ts at Table 1.
3SCF effect at 6%.
9/23% of total incremental benefits at Table 1.
5/Declines through PY 11-20 to CFAF 628 million in PY 20.                                                                                                                FI
QfDeclines through PY 11-20 to CFAF 327 million in PY 20.                                                                                                                 ru






I BR D 13103
22-~~~~~~~~~~~-
*0   I     T(             
K   A   N   E   M                                                                                A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( .  L   lOE EÇ iEt
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           ~ ~~~~~~ ...  ..   êrAwrtEEB~    ME
y              ~,                                                          BATH            A         k            ' ~    *Am-Zoer Cmi                                    S   dO
(v ~p2  k '\?~$¼&     '~tmTED                                       *ATI               ./J-           I     JpUU   E                                                         S
UEjOIJIE               -~~~~~~~D  O  A  j                       lE~~~~~ËT   - ~     M
Jt   AN          t        -         NN                      nK                           ,-r'-
W    4; aii
N'DJAMENA        H          'I             -I                                                                /
bal,                           tilki-  iLeS.
-M                                                                     O.                                                             f.        ,.> ,SSCE UObV  SUS~m AMTIMN  4
RA\ÇU    I  R   M   J "j               j~~U   E     A           k.--C. E-¶CT
k ~~~~~~AEoTeio N  t                                      XIX   SE CED  SEH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    
Ul  u        E         l          , u
o  I   t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~      ~         iu  i, /         I                      ~     
eM                                                                                                      Mll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mt
_T    ~ ~ ~~ t  î                                                                                      L~~~~~    ~ ~ M, ~~~~i
ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Mr  M..                  Ky.bé                                                                                                    J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
(
A   R   1~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~haf-
J9,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~£E,
lu k,                                                                                                                                    F,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
à~~~~~~~ 
AL                                                                                                                                                              Ai~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
il ffà                                                                                                                      D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<
ffl'   là L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E"t
lul,~~~~~e         -r' 



