Document of
FILE COPY    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2187-CD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR8
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A
SECOND LIVESTOCK PUGOECT
March 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                         CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                                CFAF 245 1/
CFAF 1,000                            US$4.08
ABBREVIATIONS
ABF          Abattoir Frigorifique de Farcha (Farcha slaughterhouse
and cold storage)
EDF          European Development Fund
FAC          Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Fund for Aid
and Cooperation)
RMWA         World Bank Regional Mission for West Africa
SERARHY      Services des Amenagements Ruraux d'Hydraulique (Rural
Water Supply Agency)
SOTERA       Societe Tchadienne d'Exploitation des Ressources
Animales (Chadian Livestock Company)
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
Project: October 1 - September 30
1/   Floating Exchange Rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHAD
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Chad
Amount:             US$11.5 million
Terms:              Standard
Project Description:
The proposed project is designed to develop livestock
production by working through associations of pastor-
alists. The project would consist of the following six
main components:
(i) provision of livestock services to associations of
pastoralists, including animal health, husbandry
techniques, protection of rangelands and stock
watering points;
(ii) provision of credit for herd reconstitution and
steer fattening;
(iii) provision of equipment and materials for Livestock
Department, SERARHY and Farcha Abattoir;
(iv) assistance to a tsetse eradication program;
(v) management training for Livestock Department senior
staff; and
(vi) preparation of a follow up project.
Livestock services, which is by far the largest component,
at 70 percent of project costs, would benefit about 100,000
families with an average size of 10 people. Their average
annual income would increase from approximately US$650 to
some US$900, US$1,000 per year, depending on the extent to
which they participate in the various programs. The herd
reconstitution program would assist about 650 pastoral
families now living mainly on famine relief. The limited
reequipment of the Farcha Abattoir will help avoid discon-
tinuing the operations of the only modern slaughterhouse in
the Country. The tsetse eradication program would open up
possibilities for more livestock production in the south of
the country, where feed resources are more abundant and
there is better scope for mixed farming. The training
would broaden the skills of Livestock Department staff
required to provide a wide range of husbandry and range
management services.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



The project faces the risks associated with Chad's diffi-
cult internal security situation. Some project activities,
vaccination aLnd drug distribution, would partly take place
in areas currently considered unsafe. However, these
project activities could be adequately supervised at main
vaccination centers, all of which are accessible. Chad's
budgetary situation poses another risk, but important
cost recovery mechanisms have been designed within this
project which would reduce this problem. A further risk
arises from the innovative nature of the credit component.
To limit this risk, this component would be implemented
gradually and would be particularly closely monitored.
Estimated Costs (Net of Taxes. The project is exempt from taxes)
Local             Foreign          Total
----------- (US$ thousand) -----------
Pastoral units and livestock
services                           2,865               4,358           7,223
Credit                                  807                110             917
Abattoir equipment                      -                  114              114
Tsetse surveys and eradication          714              1,763           2,477
Organization and Management             394                825           1,219
Base cost estimate                   4,780               7,170          11,950
Physical contingencies                  667                921           1,588
Expected price increases             1,021               1,531           2,552
Total Project Cost                 6,468               9,622          16,090
Financing Plan:
Local             Foreign          Total
----------- (US$ thousand) -----------
Beneficiaries                        1,200                   -           1,200
EDF                                    500               2,900           3,400
IDA                                  4,800               6,700          11,500
Total                              6,500               9,600          16,100
Estimated Disbursements:                       (Amounts in US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983
Annual                          2.0       3.2      3.0       2.6       0.7
Cumulative                      2.0       5.2      8.2      10.8      11.5



- iii -
Rate of Return:         The economic rate of return for the livestock
services component exceeds 100 percent; this
component represents about 70 percent of project
costs.
Appraisal Report:       Appraisal of a Second Livestock Project - Chad,
No. 1773-CD dated March 8, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de-
velopment credit to the Republic of Chad for the equivalent of US$11.5 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Livestock Project. The
European Development Fund (EDF), would participate in the financing of the
project with a grant of US$3.4 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        The following paragraphs incorporate the conclusions of an Economic
Memorandum (Report No. 1340-CD) which was distributed to the Board in July 1977
and was based on missions that visited Chad in 1976 and March 1977. Furthermore,
the findings of a short economic mission that went to Chad in November 1977
are also incorporated in this report.
3.        With scarce natural resources, a harsh climate, limited social and
economic infrastructure and a pervasive lack of skilled manpower, Chad faces
unusually large handicaps in its economic development. High transportation
costs to and from the outside world compound the problem. The main centers
of activity in this vast landlocked country are about 2,000 km from the
sea; in early 1976 freight rates from the port of Douala in Cameroon to
Southern Chad were about US$130/ton for bulk goods and US$180/ton for general
goods.
4.        In 1976, Chad's GNP per capita was estimated at US$120.  Chad is
therefore one of the poorest countries in Africa and is classified as one
of the world's 29 "least-developed" countries by the United Nations. Close
to 90 percent of the population, estimated at about four million, lives in
rural areas deriving its livelihood from agriculture and livestock. About
half of the rural population lives in the southwest, where rainfall levels are
relatively favorable to agriculture (about 1,000 mm/year). In this region
millet and sorghum are grown as subsistence crops and cotton as the predominant
cash crop. The other half of the country's inhabitants are mainly pastoralists
living in the dry grassland belt with lower and less reliable rainfall. Re-
cently, efforts have been made to intensify traditional rice growing on the
flood plains of the Logone River and to accelerate the development of the rich
polders in the Lake Chad area.
5.        During the 1960s, real GDP increased about 2 percent annually.  The
highest growth rates were achieved in the market economy (mainly import
substitution industries and services), while the growth rate of livestock and
subsistence crops probably did not reach that of population, which was



- 2 -
estimated at about 2.1 percent per year. Incomes have risen faster in the
small urban sector than in the rural areas and, within the latter, producers
of cash crops have gained more than pastoralists and subsistence farmers.
Recent Developments
6.        Three factors have affected economic growth and the financial
situation since the late 1960s:  internal security problems, droughts and a
deterioration in the terms of trade. The rebellion that broke out in 1968
rendered large areas insecure and cul: off traditional cattle routes. Due to a
lack of security and maintenance funds, wells were neglected and the water
supply for livestock dwindled. Animal disease control suffered a setback.
The impact of the internal security problems was compounded by severe droughts,
which occurred in three of the five years from 1969-1973. Water levels in the
rivers reached an all-time low, and Lake Chad shrank to one-third of its
normal size. Livestock losses were substantial, resulting in a reduction in
the cattle herd by one-third. Food crops were also hard hit: in 1972 produc-
tion of millet and sorghum fell to about 70 percent of pre-drought levels and
to about 60 percent in 1973. Emergency food shipments from abroad helped the
hard hit areas. With the return of normal rainfall, food production recov-
ered to pre-drought levels in 1974/1975. However, in 1976 a localized drought
occurred in Chad's Sahelian zone affecting agricultural output and requiring
the resumption of food aid. Drought again occurred in 1977 with a compara-
tively limited impact.
7.        After the 1973 drought, cotton production picked up considerably
reaching a record volume of 175,000 tons in 1975/1976. The upturn in cotton
production stimulated industry, transportation and trade. However, cotton
production decreased in 1976/1977 to about 150,000 tons and in 1977/78 to an
estimated 130,000 tons. The principal factors responsible for the continued
fall were inadequate rainfall leading to conflicting needs between foodcrop
and cotton production and the declining motivation of extension agents whose
salaries have stagnated since 1970. Livestock production, after an upsurge in
the drought years because of emergency slaughterings, has substantially de-
creased, reflecting the reduction of the herd and the beginning of reconstitu-
tion efforts. While the livestock sector was also constrained by past market-
ing policies, the Government has recently improved the situation by adopting a
more liberal approach through the establishment of an export cooperative in-
volving state and private enterprises. Finally, the economy has borne the
full impact of variations in the terms of trade due to increased import prices
and fluctuations in cotton export prices. The terms of trade worsened by
about 11 percent between 1972 and 1974, improved with the increase of com-
modity prices between 1975 and 1977 and began to deteriorate again in mid-1977
with the decline in cotton prices. This deterioration is expected to persist
through 1978.
8.        Until 1968 the Government succeeded in balancing the budget, and
fiscal performance was satisfactory despite development constraints. After
1968 expenditures began to grow more rapidly than revenue, as military spend-
ing increased; security and defense expenditures now account for about one-
third of the current budget. The drought also increased demand for Govern-
ment relief services while reducing revenues.



9.        Higher import prices and the rise in Government employment--as a
means of containing unemployment, especially among school leavers--also
contributed to the Government's financial difficulties. Combined with stagnant
public revenues these factors resulted in an increase in budgetary deficits
from CFAF 2.0 billion in 1970 (15.5 percent of revenues) to CFAF 4.4 billion
in 1976 (about 30 percent of revenues). The Government financed part of this
deficit with limited domestic resources, but the remainder of the gap was
covered by the accumulation of payment arrears to local and foreign suppliers
and creditors. Arrears of payments were estimated to amount to CFAF 10.5
billion by end-1976, or about 70 percent of budgetary revenues for that year.
For this reason, foreign budgetary assistance, which had been instrumental in
closing the gap in the past, was stepped up in 1976. The use of part of this
assistance to repay local and foreign suppliers, as well as the Government's
efforts at containing expenditures, have stemmed the growth of arrears and
reestablished confidence on the part of suppliers.
10.       The Government's recent attempts to stabilize public finances have
included measures to increase revenues by collecting tax arrears and raising
the cotton export tax, as well as measures to reduce expenditures by maintaining
a freeze on wages and limiting the increase in public employment. The Government
has also restricted purchases of certain materials and supplies, ceased
budgeting for investment purposes, and deferred maintenance of capital assets.
To isolate resources for priority uses, the Government has reinstated the Road
Fund, to finance road maintenance, and established the Autonomous Amortization
Fund, for debt repayment, both supplied with earmarked tax resources. With
the help of the IMF, authorities are reviewing the fiscal structure to improve
revenue collection and to increase resources. Structural changes will be
implemented only gradually, however, and will not contribute in the immediate
future to alleviating the critical shortage of public revenues. Therefore,
the effectiveness of most Government services will continue to be hampered.
External Aid
11.       Since 1973, aid flows have been substantial, with grants alone almost
equalling tax revenues in 1973 and 1975, and exceeding them by 24 percent in
1974. Total disbursements of external aid in 1973-1976 were US$327 million,
three-quarters of which were grants. In 1976, aid disbursements reached a
record level of about US$105 million. Aid from OPEC countries rose from zero
in 1972 to 10 percent of total aid in 1973 and 18 percent in 1975 and in 1976.
Nearly two-thirds of official aid disbursements came from bilateral donors
(France, 52 percent; USA, 5 percent; Germany, 4 percent; Canada, 3 percent),
the remainder from multilateral sources (EDF, 26 percent; UN organizations, 6
percent; IDA, 3 percent). External aid financed practically all public
investments. Up to 1975, the inflow of foreign aid offset the large deficits
in the current account of Chad's balance of payments so that its reserve
position with the Central Bank remained stable. Since 1974 private investment
in petroleum research has also helped offset increasing deficits. Moreover in
1976, record cotton sales, along with stagnating imports, substantial foreign
aid and private investment, produced an unprecedented balance of payments
surplus of about US$25 million. At the end of 1976, net foreign assets stood
at about US$4 million compared to a December 1975 low of minus US$19 million.



-4-
12.       Chad's external debt is a considerable burden for a country with
such limited resources. At the end of 1976 total outstanding external debt
(including undisbursed) was estimated at approximately US$250 million or about
52 percent of GDP for that year. Oi- this about 40 percent had been disbursed.
The largest increase in oustanding debt occurred between 1973 and 1975 during
the worst period of the recent drought, at a time when the Government was
undergoing severe budgetary difficuLties. These difficulties also led to
Chad's increasing inability to service the debt resulting in the accumulation
of arrears of about US$10 million al: the end of 1976 equivalent to about
25 percent of overall arrears due to creditors and suppliers. For 1976, the
external public and guaranteed debt service due, excluding arrears, was
estimated at US$10.5 million or 9 percent of exports of goods and non-factor
services; it is estimated under reasonable assumptions that the annual debt
service will remain at about the same level in the mid 1980s. While the ratio
of debt service to exports is manageable, the bulk of service payments has to
be financed by budgetary revenues. The debt service ratio with respect to
budgetary revenues, excluding arrears, was estimated at 17 percent in 1976.
The Government has established a Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement responsible
for overall debt management and admjinistration. The Caisse is financed
with earmarked revenues and its Director reports directly to the Head of
State. The Bank has assisted the Caisse Autonome in setting up debt reporting
and monitoring procedures. The Government has successfully reached a debt
rescheduling agreement with France for debt owned to Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique, and a rescheduling agreement for arrears owed to
Air Afrique has recently been concluded. The Government is also discussing
rescheduling of debts with other bilateral creditors.
Development Prospects
13.       Chad's development potential lies primarily in agriculture and
related activities. The Government is carefully exploiting available invest-
ment opportunities (textiles, sugar, edible oils and soaps, irrigated agricul-
ture) and has obtained EDF and FAC support to launch a south Chad agricultural
development program aimed at improving cotton production and crop diversifica-
tion. This program is part of an overall interim development plan which, in
addition to cotton productivity, emphasizes the improvement of Chad's domestic
and international transport infrastructure as well as the delivery of basic
services, particularly primary educattion. Recently, the Government accounced
the discovery of oil in the northwestern and southern parts of the country.
For the time being, Government is ccncentrating on solving its domestic
petroleum supply problems through thLe construction of a small import substitut-
ing refinery.  This will somewhat reduce the trade gap while providing some
extra budgetary resources. Prospects for a larger oil development project are
uncertain. Other mineral prospects are being investigated by a UNDP team.
Financial Prospects and Recurrent Cc,sts
14.       The fiscal situation is a serious obstacle to development, since
the Government cannot contribute to the financing of required investments
nor finance all recurrent costs of ongoing and new high-priority projects.



The Government has undertaken a review of the tax svstem with the helo of
the IMF and has recently increased export taxes on cotton. However, the
narrow tax base and the rising cost of maintaining even the present level of
public services, make it unlikely that substantial budgetary savings can be
generated during the remainder of the 1970s. In view of Chad's financial
constraints, its poverty and modest growth prospects, external funds should
be provided on the most concessionary terms possible. Moreover, in the
next few years foreign aid agencies should finance a high proportion of
total project costs, including lo_al costs and some dievelopment-related
recurrent costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
15.       Development of Chad's agriculture, transportation and human re-
sources continues to be the main objective of Bank Group assistance to the
country. Eleven IDA credits to date amount to US$51.1 million. Six credits
and a supplementary credit have been extended for agricultural projects, two
credits have financed transport projects and two credits have financed educa-
tion projects. Finally one credit which was made in September 1977 for a
Sahelian Zone Project comprises essentially agricultural development schemes
but also transport and rural water supply. Five of the ten projects are
either completed or near completion; the others are progressing satisfactorily.
Delays have occurred in project implementation mainly due to lack of counter-
part funds and supplies, but also because of building design problems and late
signing of consultant contracts. A common constraint to development in all
sectors is insufficiency of Government funds for maintenance and recurrent
costs. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of January 31,
1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       In agriculture our main objectives are: (a) to help Government
assure a sufficient food supply for the growing urban as well as the pre-
dominantly rural population; (b) to help expand income from cattle exports;
and (c) to protect Chad's overall economic base against the vagaries of
climate. In rainfed agriculture, past IDA lending has been designed to raise
rural productivity mainly through the provision of infrastructIre, equipment
and storage facilities. In irrigation, IDA is assisting in the financing of
the Sategui-Deressia and Lake Chad Polders Projects which will produce, among
other products, rice, wheat and seed cotton. The Sahelian Zone Project will
initiate drought-alleviating measures that will sustain or step up crop,
livestock and forestry exploitation in the zone. Our First Livestock Project
assisted the Government with the rehabilitation and construction of Sahelian
pastoral wells and with studies of the livestock sector; the proposed Second
Livestock Project would carry this further by providing animal health services,
animal husbandry, pastoral development, pastoral wells, credit and marketing.
17.       In transportation, we are giving priority to road maintenance and to
improvement of feeder roads and agricultural export routes. The first proj-
ect helped to build-up a primary road maintenance capacity in the Department



- 6 -
of Public Works. The Second Highway Project and the road component of the
Rural Projects Fund are designed to improve feeder roads; a proposed Third
Highway Project, would essentially serve to improve and maintain about 5,300
km of primary and secondary roads in the South and in the Sahelian Zone. We
are also considering projects which would improve Chad's transport links with
the sea.
18.       Two education projects in 1968 and 1971 assisted the Government
in setting up institutions for training teachers and agricultural and indus-
trial technicians--the most needed skills in the economy. A proposed Third
Education Project, recently appraiseid, would mainly aim at improving primary
education facilities in rural areas.
19.       Chad's severe financial and manpower constraints limit investment
opportunities and necessitate special arrangements for counterpart funds,
recurrent costs, training and institution building. IDA and other donors
have assisted the Government in financing local costs pending the improve-
ment of the economy. Recurrent cost-financing problems have been resolved
in different ways: by designing projects which promote cost recovery; by
establishing special funds replenished with earmarked revenues; and by pro-
viding technical assistance grants which do not increase the burden of debt
service. Furthermore some donors, primarily France, also make direct con-
tribution for covering recurrent cost expenditures in many sectors including
education.
20.       Most of our operations in Chad have been coordinated with other
donors and several projects are being executed under joint or parallel financ-
ing. The recent focus on the problems of the Sahel has increased the number
of donors seeking cofinancing with IDA. The proposed project like the two
others in the pipeline would benefit from cofinancing. The amount of co-
financing thus tentatively pledged in FY78 and FY79 is likely to match the
proposed IDA lending to Chad during this period. IDA lending accounted for
17 percent of the total outstanding disbursed external public debt at the
end of 1976 and on average represents 4 percent of Chad's projected debt
service over the 1977-1985 period.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
21.       The rural sector contributes about 55 percent to GDP and about 90
percent to exports, of which cotton, livestock, animal products and fish
are the main commodities. Livestock raising is a major economic activity,
providing a third of the rural population with its main source of living
and accounting for 25-30 percent of merchandise exports.
Livestock Subsector
22.       About 80 percent of thle herd is raised in the Sahelian zone where
pastoralists practice seasonal migration. In 1970 the livestock population
was about 4.5 million cattle, 5 million sheep and goats, 0.5 million camels
and 0.5 million horses and donkeys. The 1973 drought caused substantial



- 7 -
o~sses of the livestock population (see para. 6); recent census data indicate
that the cattle population has since increased to nearly 4 million while the
number of other stock has already reached pre-drought levels. In 1975, gross
annual income for the typical extended family was CFAF 176,000 (US$720) of
which CFAF 103,000 (US$420) came from livestock, with the rest from comple-
mentary cropping and fishing activities. Pastoralists per capita income was
about US$60, about equal to that of small-scale farmers in the south of the
country.
Marketing, Pricing and Taxation
23.       Animals are marketed through a traditional private system in which
pastoralists sell their stock either directly or through 40 principal and
secondary markets to large traders. About 60 percent of cattle offtake is
exported. Apart from limited exports of chilled meat by air (about 2,000
tons), animals are moved on the hoof to both domestic and foreign, mainly
Nigerian, consumption centers. Government has attempted to collect live-
stock taxes by means of head taxes, sales taxes and export duties. During
and after the drought, the head and sales taxes were abolished. Revenues
from livestock taxes fell from a peak of CFAF 630 million to CFAF 250 million
or 2 percent of Government revenues in 1975 when Government introduced pro-
hibition on live animal exports.
24.       A livestock taxation study, financed under Credit 309-CD, recom-
mended that Government introduce fees for vaccinations and work more closely
with private exporters of live animals. While Government agrees in principle,
it considers and IDA agrees that charges for vaccinations are not yet practi-
cable; for, until all pastoralists are aware of the benefits to be obtained,
the universal coverage required to protect against contagious diseases and ul-
timately eradicate some of them would be jeopardized. Government has already
acted on the second recommendation. A Livestock Marketing Company, Societe
Tchadienne d'Exploitation des Ressources Animales (SOTERA), has been formed
in which the Chadian Government is associated with private livestock traders.
The company will be responsible for orderly live animal exports through a li-
censing system and will have a monopoly for exports of chilled meat and hides
and skins. The prohibition on live animal exports was lifted in February 1977
and livestock producer prices have increased accordingly. These measures re-
flect a general tendency to remove any arbitrary impediments to internal and
external commerce and to revert to a market oriented approach to pricing.
Institutions
25.       The Ministry of Rural and Pastoral Development is responsible for
the administration and development of the livestock industry mainly through
its Livestock Department. This Department's staff is occupied almost entirely
with disease control and no section deals specifically with animal husbandry
or range management. The Ministry also supervises the Rural Water Supply
Agency, SERARHY, and a slaughterhouse and cold storage facility, the Abattoir
Frigorifique de Farcha (ABF). SERARHY is a specialized agency under the Rural
Engineering Department which constructs and maintains stock watering parts



- 8 -
throughout the country and village wells in most areas. ABF was established
in 1958 as a public commercial body to provide controlled hygienic slaughter-
ing facilities for meat for N'Djaimena and for meat exports by air to African
coastal markets. The Farcha Laboratory in N'Djamena produces a wide range of
vaccines for the supply of the veterinary services. This Laboratory forms
part of the Institut d'Elevage et de Mledecine Veterinaire de Pays Tropicaux
in Paris, financed by France and other participant countries. Discussions
are actually underway between the Chadian and French Governments in order
to give this Laboratory the status of a Chadian public enterprise.
Subsector Strategy
26.       Government's main objective for the livestock subsector has been
and continues to be increased production of cattle, primarily for export, and
of smallstock, primarily for domestic consumption. Until recently, the
strategy chosen to realize this objective was the provision of animal health
services, stock watering points and market facilities. These measures remain
necessary but have had some undesirable side effects. First, they induced
rapid herd growth resulting in high stocking rates and overgrazing particu-
larly around watering points which, in turn caused high cattle losses during
the drought; the 1973 drought entailed losses of about a third of the cattle
and 10 percent of other stock. Second, the maintenance of stock watering
points and provision of animal health services require recurrent financing
which Government is unable to provide.
27.       Government recognizes these deficiencies and considers that, through
the delineation of pastoral units and recognition of association of pastoral-
ists it will be possible (a) to improve management of communally-owned pas-
tures and to emphasize improved aLnimal husbandry rather than allowing for
unrestrained herd growth as a meaLns to increase output and (b) to allocate
stock watering points to specific associations of pastoralists, thus giving
them the incentive to participate in maintenance and easing the pressure on
the Government budget. Government's current strategy is, therefore, a blend
of its earlier approach and the rLewly-recognized need to increase animal and
pastoral productivity through increased pastoralists' participation.
28.       Government also recognizes that, in the long term, the physical
production potential of the Sahelian zone rangelands is not great and live-
stock development will have to take place increasingly in the better watered
south of the country where potential feed resources are more ample and con-
ditions more favorable for mixed farming. One of the main deterrents to
such a policy is the danger of disease infestation, particularly trypano-
somiasis. To facilitate livestock development in the South, action is planned
to eradicate the tsetse fly.
29.       Bank Group strategy in the livestock sector has also reflected
these changing strategy considerations. The First Livestock Project (Credit
309-CD) consisted mainly of open well construction and repairs. In addition,
studies of the livestock subsector which were to lead to a national livestock
plan, were to be executed through an ongoing UNDP project. The project had



- 9 -
a long gestation period. It was appraised in 1966, but did not begin until
mid-1974 - and the volume of work was reduced to accommodate cost increases.
By now 90 percent of the credit has been disbursed and the well construction
and repair works were satisfactorily completed in late 1976.
30.       However, the UNDP project was terminated in late 1975 before most
of the studies financed under the IDA project had even been started. The
more important of the studies financed under the IDA project were then commis-
sioned and supervised by the Livestock Department and IDA and their scope
was expanded to include the delineation of pastoral units and association
of pastoralists in Batha prefecture, and a first attempt to identify health
and husbandry activities for smallstock. Parallel with these studies, FAC
financed a study of herd reconstitution in the Kanem prefecture and other
studies were financed as part of the drought relief assistanc provided
by the European Community, notably agrostological maps of the Sahelian zone
and a livestock census.
31.       The proposed Second Livestock Project reflects the new Government
thinking and draws on all these studies and includes: (a) measures to increase
animal and pastoral productivity particularly in the Sahel through increased
participation by pastoralists in the management of the environment, and (b)
tsetse eradication in the South to pave the way for subsequent expansion of
the livestock industry. Under the Sahelian Zone Project (Credit 739-CD),
attention was given mainly to the continuation of existing livestock vaccina-
tion and health services pending the new wide-ranging approach of this pro-
posed Second Livestock Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The Government has requested IDA assistance to finance a Second
Livestock Project which would increase animal and pastoral productivity by
working through association of pastoralists. The project was identified by
the Bank Regional Mission in West Africa (RMWA) in 1975 and prepared by Bank
Group staff and Government from studies financed by the European Community,
the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and the First Livestock Project
(Credit 309-CD). The proposed project was appraised by an IDA mission
in February/March 1977 and a follow-up mission in June 1977. A report en-
titled "Appraisal of a Second Livestock Project - Chad", No 1773-CD dated
March 8, 1978, is being distributed separately and a Credit and Project
Summary is presented at the beginning of this report. Negotiations for
the proposed credit were held in Washington from February 21 to 24 with a
Chadian delegation led by H.E. Ahmed Kerim Togoi, Minister of Economy, Plan-
ning and Transport.
Project Objectives and Description
33.       The main objectives of developing livestock production particularly
in the Sahelian zone would be achieved by (a) getting pastoralists to accept



- 10 -
responsibility for the environment through their participation in the manage-
ment and improvement of communal rangelands and stock watering points; (b)
broadening the field of competence of the Livestock Department, from provision
of animal health services to provision of animal and pastoral productivity
services; and (c) increasing the scope for livestock production in the South
of the country through tsetse eradication. The project area would be the
whole country with the exception of the Assale canton (Map 13103) and the
project would include:
(a)  delineation of pastoral units based on traditional land-
use patterns, and formal recognition of about 75 associa-
tions of pastoralists based on traditional social groups,
in the prefectures of flatha, Kanem and Chari Baguirmi;
(b) provision of a package of services to associations of pas-
toralists, including animal health, supplies and advice
on animal husbandry techniques and on protection of range-
lands, and maintenance and selective extension of stock
watering points;
(c) the supply and delivery to pastoralists of vaccinations
and drugs throughout the project area with the exception
of the cotton zone where vaccines would be supplied under
the project but would be delivered to the pastoralists
by existing Government services;
(d) provision of credit to those pastoralists who were worst
hit by the drought for the purchase of cattle to rebuild
their herds and, on a pilot basis, provision of credit
for the purchase of immature cattle for steer fattening;
(e)  management training for Livestock Department senior staff;
(f) limited re-equipment of the Farcha Slaughterhouse (ABF) near
N'Djamena; vehicles and equipment for the Livestock Department
and for SERARHY, and buildings for the Livestock Department;
(g) preparation of a land-use plan for the middle Chari Valley;
and tsetse eradication programs in the same area and in the
cotton zone; and
(h) preparation of a follow-up project.
Project Implementation and Monitoring
34.       The Livestock Department would be mainly responsible for project
implementation. This Department is presently involved in the execution of
the First Livestock Project and has performed satisfactorily. The Director
of the Livestock Department would assume the role of the Project Manager and



- 11 -
would be directly responsible for execution of all project activities concern-
ing the constitution of associations of pastoralists, animal health and hus-
bandry, credit and field staff training.
35.       The establishment of associations of pastoralists would require
two steps: the geographic delineation of pastoral units based on traditional
land-use patterns and formal recognition of their boundaries, and the group-
ing of pastoralists in such units into one or more associations, based on
traditional social groups with specific rights and obligations. The delinea-
tion method has been adequately tested by a pilot study financed under the
First Livestock Project and a team composed of Government representatives
and consultants would be responsible for the delineation of the units in con-
sultation with traditional local authorities. The consultants would be re-
cruited possibly from the University of Chad, otherwise internationally.
Official recognition would be granted to the associations of pastoralists
and their rights and obligations would be specified pursuant to appropriate
regulations. Assurances have been obtained that the regulations would be
issued by September 30, 1978 and that they would include a model charter
for an association of pastoralists (Section 3.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). A first draft of the regulations was brought by the
Chadian delegation to negotiations and discussed with IDA.
36.       Once recognized, each association would be entitled to grazing
and watering rights in its area and would also be provided with a package
of services comprising: (a) vaccination of cattle against the major conta-
gious diseases, (b) field testing and if successful, full-scale vaccination
of smallstock against respiratory disease; (c) treatment against worms and
ticks; (d) use of mineral licks and feed concentrates; (e) advice on and
materials for animal husbandry; (f) advice on range management; and (g) main-
tenance and extension of water points. Apart from the vaccines against the
major contagious cattle diseases, which would be supplied free, all animal
health actions would be paid for by pastoralists after an initial two-year
demonstration period during which drugs and feed supplements would be dis-
tributed free of charge and mineral licks at 20 percent of costs. Assurances
were obtained that full scale vaccination of small stock would be subject to
IDA approval subsequent to the completion of field tests (Section 3.06 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
37.       In return for these services, the associations would accept to
undertake the maintenance of watering points and to heed the advice of ex-
tension workers aimed at better utilization of the range. An assurance was
obtained that by March 31, 1979 legislation would be issued by Government,
after consultation with IDA, specifying the annual maintenance fee per well,
the method of fee collection and the manner in which SERARHY would use the
revenue, and that no new or replacement well would be constructed until the
beneficiaries had made a cash payment of at least 5 percent of the average
estimated cost of such works (Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
38.       The associations would also help, through guarantees, their members
(i) who have lost 75 percent or more of their herds as a result of the drought,



- 12 -
to obtain interest-free loans under the project to purchase the cattle neces-
sary to reconstitute their herds, and (ii) on a pilot basis, to obtain one-
year, 15 percent interest loans to cover a maximum of 80 percent of the cost
of steers for fattening before resale. These loans would be granted with a
collective guarantee from the respective associations of pastoralists, in the
form of a written commitment to make a 10 percent cash deposit (20 percent
in the case of cattle fattening loans) and to cover any defaults in the re-
payment of such loans. For the execution of the credit activities, a new
unit would be set up within the Livestock Department, to be managed by a
credit officer, who would be assisted by a credit assistant in each of the
three regions. In addition, Livestock Department field staff would, after
training, assist in the follow-up and supervision of the credit.
39.       The training of livestock field staff would be provided using the
facilities of the Herder Training Center at Massakory which is to be fully
staffed and equipped under a USAID Program. It was agreed that annual con-
sultations would be held between Government and IDA on the content, duration
and selection criteria for participants and teaching staff for all training
related to the project (Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). The senior staff training would be provided through the Public Admin-
istration College at N'Djamena and supervised by the Project Manager.
40.       Through approval of work programs and of withdrawal applications,
the Project Manager would also have oversight responsibilities for activi-
ties concerning stock watering points and ABF's equipment, the execution of
which would be the direct responsi.bilities of SERARHY and the ABF (see para.
24). Assurances were obtained that, by December 31, 1978, the Borrower would
undertake a review of SERARHY's legal and administrative status and thereafter
consult with IDA on the possibility tco confer on it managerial and financial
autonomy on SERARHY (Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Since the Project Manager would still retain his non-project responsibilities,
he would be assisted by a Deputy and aL Chief Accountant who would also assist
in the establishment of the credil: programs. The appointment of these two
specialists would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The studies for preparing the follow-up
project would be made through the Plarning Unit within the Ministry of Rural
Development.
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
41.       Project costs for the four-year period beginning October 1978,
are estimated at US$16.1 million, with a foreign exchange component of 60
percent (US$9.7 million). All projeclt goods and services would be imported
duty-free as is customary for IDA-financed projects in Chad. The proposed
Credit of US$11.5 million would cover 72 percent of project costs. The
European Development Fund (EDF) would also contribute US$3.4 million as a
grant to be disbursed on a parallel basis with the IDA credit. This grant
would cover the costs of tsetse survey and eradication and the project moni-
toring unit. Together IDA and EDF would cover 93 percent of total project
costs, i.e. the foreign exchange component (US$9.6 million) and 77 percent



- 13 -
of the local costs (US$4.7 million). The remaining project costs (US$1.2
million) would be contributed by beneficiaries, mainly for drugs, feed supple-
ments and stock watering points. Government would continue to finance the
cost of local Livestock Department staff working under the project (US$0.5
million per year) but these costs are not included in project costs.
42.       The IDA credit would be channeled through an account to be opened
at the Chadian Development Bank. The opening of this account would be a con-
dition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Since Chad is unable to prefinance project expenditures, IDA
would make an initial deposit of US$500,000 in a revolving fund for this
project account. Should, however, any disbursement from the project account
finance expenditures that are not eligible for financing from the proceeds
of the credit, Government would be under obligation to depos . the correspond-
ing amount into that account (Section 2.02(e) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Financial Implication for Government
43.       The recurrent costs to be borne by Government after project comple-
tion would amount to CFAF 360 million (US$1.5 million) per year in constant
prices, for vaccines, operation and replacement of Livestock Department vehi-
cles and equipment, and well maintenance. This would be additional to the
cost of Livestock Department staff in the project area amounting to US$0.5
million per year, which the Government is presently financing and would con-
tinue to finance during the project. Government revenue from the livestock
sector net of collection costs was only US$0.7 million in 1975. Of this
amount, US$0.5 million was derived from export taxes; this represents only
50 percent of taxes which should have been paid. Government is now keen
to increase tax revenue from the livestock sector and has already taken
one measure, namely formal cooperation through SOTERA with main exporters
of live animals to Nigeria, that will generate increased export tax revenues.
In projecting Government's cash flow, it has been assumed that under the
changed conditions, effective collection of export taxes on livestock will
continue to be only 50 percent of taxes due during the first three years of
the project, thereafter rising to 75 percent. The continuation of project
activities afterwards would result in an annual net outflow from Government
budget of about US$0.8 million but there would by then be scope for increasing
revenue from charges for some vaccinations and increased tax rates (see para.
23). Similar measures have just been introduced in other Sahelian countries
(Mali and Upper Volta).
Procurement
44.       Procurement of civil works (estimated cost US$1.1 million), vehi-
cles and equipment (estimated cost US$1.7 million) and supplies, namely
drugs and materials for wells (estimated cost US$1.6 million), would be
through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guide-
lines in the case of contracts over US$50,000. In the case of contracts
of US$50,000 or less but more than US$10,000 procurement would be through



- 14 -
competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA.
For contracts of US$10,000 or less, direct competitive purchasing would be
employed. Vaccines (estimated cost US$1.5 million) would be procured from
the Farcha Laboratory and feed supplements (estimated cost US$0.5 million)
from the Livestock Production Improvement Center; both the Laboratory and
the Center are non-profit bodies in N'Djamena, with proven records of qual-
ity products at prices substantially below those of imported commercial sup-
plies. Well maintenance and construction (estimated cost US$1.6 million net
of vehicles, equipment and materials, to be procured as indicated above)
would be undertaken by SERARHY under force account, since there is insuf-
ficient competition among local contractors and insufficient interest from
foreign firms in small contracts for dispersed works. Renovation of abat-
toir equipment (estimated cost US$810,000) would be by force account using
replacement parts compatible with the existing installation to be procured
under procedures acceptable to IDA. The services of internationally-re-
cruited staff and of consultants (estimated cost US$1.3 million) would be
obtained following procedures acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements
45.       Each of the main project activities would constitute a disburse-
ment category. Two additional catelgories would contain funds for advance
for revolving fund and unallocated. The proceeds of the credit would be
disbursed against: (i) 100 percent of expenditures for pastoral units and
livestock services except for mineral licks for which the credit would only
finance 80 percent of total costs in the first and second year; (ii) 100 per-
cent of the disbursed amounts for loans and related administrative expendi-
tures; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for ABF's equipment; (iv)
100 percent of expenditures for organization and management other than the
project monitoring unit; and (v) 100 percent of the initial deposit for the
revolving fund. An amount of US$1.47 million would be unallocated.
Benefits and Justification
46.       Benefits from livestock services, which is by far the largest com-
ponent (with 70 percent of project costs), would accrue to about 100,000 fam-
ilies with current average incomes of US$650 for an aggregate cost of US$11.3
million or about US$10 per beneficiary. Incremental annual incomes after ten
years, valued at 1977 prices, would accrue to the following three categories
of beneficiaries: US$260 for the 25,000 families participating fully in the
project and paying well maintenance fees, US$140 for the 10,000 families not
paying well fees and US$120 for the 65,000 families receiving only vaccines
and drug supplies. The economic rate of return of the livestock services
component would exceed 100 percent over 20 years and the incremental return
on non-vaccination components of livestock services would be about 35 percent
over the same period. Such high returns are a common feature of livestock
projects that include a significant vaccination component. If the gross value
of total herd is expressed as an annual return on the capital value of the
whole herd, this return would increase from 15.4 percent without the project
to 18.5 percent ten years after the project started.



- 15 -
Risks
47.       There are areas in Chad which are intermittently regarded as
militarily unsecure and which are therefore considered restricted areas.
While project activities which require on-site supervision would not be
extended beyond the secure areas until their accessibility is assured,
vaccinations and drugs would be delivered in areas inaccessible to IDA staff
since such activities could be adequately supervised at main vaccination
centers, all of which are accessible. During negotiations it was agreed that,
in accordance with normal Bank Group requirements, disbursements would be
conditional on security conditions permitting access by IDA representatives to
any part of the Project Area for the efficient supervision of the execution of
the Project (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       A second risk is that Government may be unable to assure sufficient
recurrent cost financing after project completion; this is a familiar risk
for projects in Chad but this project provides for periodic review of the
scope for new and potentially large cost recoveries through vaccination fees
(Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A third risk is
that, whereas sufficient safeguards have been provided to ensure that credits
for herd reconstitution would be made to deserving cases, the feasibility of
obtaining the required guarantees and loan repayments have not yet been put
to the test; the planned gradual implementation of this component would limit
the risk. Finally, there is a risk that despite some safeguards, the consti-
tution of associations of pastoralists would proceed more slowly than envis-
aged. Since the potential economic returns are very large, some delays in
implementation should not impair the basic justification of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Chad
and the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
50.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
51.       Additional conditions of credit effectiveness would be:  (a) open-
ing of the Special Account, and (b) the appointment of the Deputy Project
Manager and the Chief Accountant (Section 6.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
52.       A remedy permitting suspension of disbursement was provided in
case any part of the Project Area be inaccessible to IDA representatives as
required for the efficient supervision of the execution of the Project (Sec-
tion 5.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 15, 1978



- 17 -
AINEX I
TABLE 3APae1o4pgs
CHAD                - SOClAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                          Page 1 of 4 page
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                           OCAD                                  REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1284.0                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    520.0                        1960       197-  ESTIMATE           MALI            BOLIVIA       CENTRAL AFRICAN EMPIRE**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     70.0*      90.0*    120.0/0*             70.0*      220.0*      I70.0t
---------_------ ---
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_-- -- - -- -- -- -_- - -- _- - -- - - -- ---  3.     .          ./                 .           .           .
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            3.1        3.6        4.1/a              5.1         4.9         1.
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE Km.                        2.0        3.0       3.0 /a             4.0         4.0         3.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         6.0        7.0       8.0/a              12.0       17.0        27.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         45.8       44.8      44.0                49.6       44.4        45.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.6       24.6      24.0                27.8        19.7       26.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       160.0/a       *-        *-              120.0       154.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       33.5      38.0       38.5               37.2        45.3        39.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.4/b      3.0       2.6                3.3         2.8         2.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.5        1.7       2.1                2.2         2.6         2.2
URBAN                                 6.9        7.1       6.4                4.3         4.2         7.2
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           6.7       11.3      13.9                t2.1       32.3        30.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      44.7       41.4       41.0/b             49.1        41.9        42.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                      52.6       56.0       s5.o/b,c           49.3        54.6        54.8
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.7       2.6        4-0/b.c             1.6        3.5         3.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.8       0.8                 1.0        0.8         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3/c       ..        .s3/a,d           o..Ia        1.0/a      0.9/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..         ..        ..                 ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..        ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOJSAND)         1100.0         ..    1300.0/a           2800.0      2300.0       820.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         94.0      90.0          ..              91.0        65.0/b      91.0
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)            ..         ..        ..                  ..        16.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
__---------_--------
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            21 5/d       *-        *-                  *-       36.0/C
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            44.B/d       ..        ..                 ..        59.o/c
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             7.7/d       ..        ..                 ..         4.0/c
LCWEST  40% OF HOUSEOLDS            1t.3/d        *.        *-                 *-        13.O/C
DISTRIWBTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..         ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..        ..                  ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                        1690 0   44400 0            41490.0      2300.0    39120.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        5700.0/e,r           5570:0/e           3850.0      2730.0      1280.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           820.0/e,g 760.0         ..              1390.0/b    490.0       460.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         94.0      89.0       7.                  92.0       77.0        96.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              77.0       73.0      6u.                69.0        46.0        49.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..      33.0/a   18.8                 23.0/c      14.0/d      22.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..         ..                 ..        7.4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       15.0      32.0       36.0               20.0        71.0        69.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      0.4        2.0       2.0                3.0        20.0         5.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0      13.0               12.0        12.0        10.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     21.0      10.0        9.0               40.0        13.0/e      12.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..       7.0      15.0                  ..       40.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         ..         ..                 ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                        ..         ..        ..                 ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                                       ..         ..         ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (x)                     ..         ..        ..                 ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          2.0       16.0      18.0                12.0      288.0        30.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           1.0        1.0       1.5                 1.0        4.0         4.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            3.0       12.0      14.0                11.0      160.0        29.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                           .                             ..        1.0
- --------- - ----------F - --------------O-R-E----V-E-R- - -
SEe NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 18 -
Page 2 of 4 pages
Nargs
Unle  otherw-i   noted, data for 1960 refer to  ny year betwn 1959  nd 1961, for 1970 between 1968 nod 1970, and for Moat Recene
Estimate between 1973 sad 1975.
GNfP per capita data are baaed on the World bank Atlas mthodology (1974-76 bsis).
The Cantoal African  mpire has been selented As a1 Objective country for Chad bectase it In also landlocked but at a higher level
of develpment.
ChAD n1960    Ia  1955-57;    tb  191344 African population;    Ic  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
total labor force;    td  1958, population;    In  1962;    /f  Inclodiog aidwive-  and assistant
nurses ic gaeermnent medical centers;    /R  Goverenent hospital eetablishbents only.
1970    Ia  1964-66.
MOST RECRENT ESIGIATE:  /a  1976;    lb  1912;    Ic  Age groups 15-59 and 60 and over reepectively;    /d  Ratio
of population uorder 15  nd 60 and over to total labor force;    /e  Including midwives
and assistnt mIdwive.
MALI                 1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 Aid 65 and over to tota1 labor forte;    /b  Gove-mneot hospita1 eatab-
lishneata;    In  1964-66.
BOLIVIA              1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 aid 65 sd over to total labor f                   Lre;    /b  Ar perrentage of lobuc force
in employment;    In  Population;    1d  1964-66;    /e  Between 1965 and 1970 the duration of genarol
secondary educatioiieaa reduced fra 6 to 4 ypers,
iEdTRAL  1FRICAN    1970    /n  Ratio of population under 15 cud 65 snd aver to trtal labor force;    /b  Including ntdwive-  and
EbMPIRE                      assistant  urses.
R7, February 2, 1978
bNT73T-iOS OF SOCIAL flICATORi
L-nd Are  (thou k.2)                                                                       PoP1latior Pet  -rsna Pecon - Popolation divided by rusher of practiciog
Total   Total sarface ure  cooprising land area od inland ostars                             cola sod fenale gradu-te nr e-, 'trained" or "re-ttfid" nurses, a-d
Ari.. - Sot rear  .astio.ta of saricoirurol scra uoad tnpo-arily or Pern-                   actiliary personnel  ftah trantnr  or roperirrc-
rertly for crops, pa-ture, -kaet 6 kitchen grder-  or to lie  pallopuvtio  r  hosi p al bed - Ptpseltion  divided by rusber of hospital beds
soetlable Or public and private genera an d sp-rioierd hospital ard
CNfP rr -apita (0IS5 - GNP per capita estirtet or currort market pric-n,                     rebailitario-  -euters; earluds rreing horse and rstsblthm,ents fo
calculated by s-a  cterorsion cethod as World BSsk Atlas (1973-75 basis)                   ro-todis1 and pesreo-ive roa.r
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                Per ..aito supply o f caores(7 of roiae             - Conputad frs energy
equivalent of not food Prpplies available in country per rapita pee day;
Poopltlion sod vital statistic:                                                              avilable n-rplias cmprtise danestir prod-cton, ipocrt less erponts, nod
Populatio, (rid-year n.ilion)   or of July first:  if rot avoilshle, aversa.                 chargoR  in  rock; ret supplier enolude anfans feed, seads, qusttiss aed
of Iwo cod-yeare -tinatete; 160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                        y F60  pr.c toopeing and lasse  In distributive; requiresents were e-tirated
by FAOb hoard on phyailgi-aI.. teds far norml activity and health cassid-
Poo1la-io, deritry - pe- .,uare k1  - mfd-yeat population per square -kilnt-r                ntis0 anvir-fel tamperetur, body -eight, age and se.  di-ribhtions or
(100 heIcaron) of cr101 area                                                               population, and alloving 10  foe .aste at hbu-ehold level.
ForMlation denalty - one 50tame koc of agricl esd - C-papted as  abore for                 Per canitas*upply of Protein (arson pee days - Protein content of per capita
sgrtraltural land anly                                                                    arc aupply of food per day; rat supply of food is defined as sboye; esqui,-
-tnoc  for a11 coontries eesbhlihbed by USDA Econoric Reses.ch Service.
Vital statistics                                                                             prooide for a ninlnern allerance of 60 erans of total protein pee day, and
Ceodo birth rota per thnousnd  averaen - Annua  live births pee thr-and of                   20 grea=  of animal and pulse protein, of ohich 10 grca should be animal
old-yost population; tnn-year arithnetic  eversananding in 1960 and 1973,                  proctin; these stadard. are lese  than those of 75 grams of totel protein
red firs-year average ending in 1975 for  a-st raoont e-stsie.                             and 23 gron-  of soial protein as an-avarag  far the  -vnId, proposed by F7O
Croda death reta Per thrus.d, avedsac - Annual deaths pee thrasand of aid-year               in the Third Wald Food Survey.
population; ten-year aeithnetio aver-ges .ndieg in 1960 and 1970 and five-               Pee capita protein supply frqm *anial ond pulse  - Protein supply of food
year anerags ending to 1975 foe non ireceot  estimate.                                     dorived  rm- an.Ials ond poLses in gca  pet dsy.
Infant _ttalict rate (Ithou1 - An-ual d-stha of infants ander one ye-r of age              Dsath rate  (/thaos Ran   1-4 - An.ual death. per thousand in age group 1-4
per thonnand live birto.                                                                   yeats, to childeno in this age group; snggested .. 5n indicator of
lIfe enpeotanoy at birth (free   - Aver-ge nc-b-oat pfatrs of life renamingi at              nalnutritio_
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
fng cau_trieo                                                                            Edorstito
Gross reproduction  tarn  - overage nusber of live daughters a wosan will bear              Adjsted enrollment ratio - prtairy school - Enro.lsent of a11 ages  as per-
in her  urinal reproduooriv  periad if ah. erperlenena present sge-epsoific                centsge of pdinary nobaul-age population; inludes ohildren aged 6-11 years
Oe_tility rates; esoolLy firs-year avrtsgaso ding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjaated far ditferent lengths of prtimsr  adoration; for cn,ntnie  with
for developing carotties.                                                                  oiversal education  esrolma- nt may eroed li0t since s            pupils are belir
Ppoplation aroveth rare (ts - tota1 - Canpound sonual geasth rates of mid-year               or ahote the officil school age.
populscion fIc 1950-Al, ;86i-70 and 1970-75.                                             Adjoated -nraLnet ratio - secodary School - Cuspoitd as above; secondary
Population arneth rate (f) - urban - C-Pputed likm  gerth rote of total                      educ tion teq.irs at Ieast four years of  appevd primay i-ttion;
population; different dofinitioma of urban  areas nay affect .ompatability of               pra-idas feners    .. vocatioeal or teacher training i-t-terions for pupils
data among  atmtries.                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of age  tarrespondann courses are generally ecluded.
Orhan population  (I7 of total  - Ratio of anban to trtal popolatici; diffessrt            Geara af schooling Ieevided (first  cd se.cd levels; - Total years of
dsfinitioaa  of orb.s  areas may affset c-npar-bility of data a-ong couctrir                aahoalimg; at secondary level, voosotonal  -otruocion Rty be partially or
Me aenotre fprcst5  -Childew. (0-14 y. )  -aiag-age (15-64 peace),                     orpist.ly asldad. a-faZ;dnj V-i lisil-ild
end retired f65 years en   ver)    perne-tag- of md-          ppltioo. thfh ;e1r.17mt -    t                                                         iude pn itld er
An _epnenyto  i  - Ratio of PaPolatin order 15 and 65 sod over to thtnn               dnpart-ete of secndary i-sticutloonh.
of gas 15 thtrogh 64                                                                     A4dult literary tare (71  - Lirate ud.Lt- (able to read and  riti) a- per-
icnni eroenyrai    - Ratio of population order 15 and 65 cod ove  to. retag  of total a dult papolation sned 15 years ondput
the labor faor  in a8e gr-op of 15-64 years.
Family peasning -aacnpcpors (rnulative. ibou   - famalC-ice nusbhr of accptrrs              rooing
oft bith-rotrl dovires under auspices of national f_aily plreniog pr,o9ram                Petronaoner raP (urban; - Average nbner of per-on- per roan in a-capind
sia-  I_onP, ion.                                                                          -onvetianal dwellings to orb. as -rea; d.anlitogs  -e lds non-ps- -no
Family nlanocin  - users  a of narrird seaens - PerotrsIs af m-aried  .o-a- of                ste-octaree aedune piId parts.
cd aing age(-    er) r   u   birt-otol deis to nl mried                                   Occupied d-lie  tithout pie d water (  - Ocupid convetioal dwelling
s i.yo Or same ago group,                                                            in urban and nrurl areas  uithourt f-ids or "o"side piped aster facilities
B'viovpNet                                                                         ea percentage of a11  fenopled dwellings.
Ttal labo  farep (ta nd-    ; -  ecmicaly active persona, isloding IamCd lc ei    i iving q                                    as   rec  of total dwLling  in urban and
fune  ad -oenpiyd bu 1oolding housewives, endsnts, err; definitions                       -1a aen
Eu v-rious c-ultrfes are boa  cana-ableE
Labor farce in agricultore ('13  - Oorituitaral isber farce (tea eezcing, fas-estry,        RrLdwellings only.          t   lcriiv()-  optd  uaoe  o   ua
hunting  and fiahig) en pertentage af tatal Isabr fbre
Unenpioped f7 of lebar farces  - VUn-plo1ed are asually defined an persona vh.              Corprction
are able andrilis         tacke ajb, put of a job on a given day, ,ai-ad out              Radorasies(oetorpp                   All typam  at reaivera inn radie brr-dc-sc
of a job, and trg work f                Hra c d iu n   Pid not A     . din one              ts                                f PoP tion;  eld    unlicnd rei
nek; sp noat be nanprsble betwee  countries den to different delil,e                         n r--nrfe  and in year  when  -geiscraionfa -dia ses  a  I              _Ern;
of uamPloyed and  purts of data, e.g., esployent affi-e statistics, aaple                   data far recent y-ara  ay not be cnrparable since eoat rountria  bo;lihed
survys.  aneunaryuraplopeet irsorn--                                                   lnars fog.
Pase.r. ae. on. ho.on   Pa.... ger oar  -apriss motor cars seating
jm ditrbution  - Percengtag.f private inoce  (both in cas h and kiod.~                        lesta   eight persons; onldna anb.lance, hearse   end military
receivd by richest 5I, richest 20%, poorest 2e , ond pr   bt ed p    4%  of hmse-           Vehicles.
odsd.                                                                                     Elctriity fkwn/vr see asp) - Annual co---eption of iduatrial, c-erai,
Diattib.tino, of                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pablic and private sI1etricity in kilewtt hare  per capita, generaly
ndscribation of land awsensoie~Pe tog- of land  -.d by weL2ltbts iIo rt                    base h   d on prod-tri    data, wit-o  allesne e a lasses in grids but *ilv-
and pretes  10  or land uses.Sng Err import.soad  spoets of electrtcy.
he-lth and Nutrition                                                                        Newsprint (kg/ye one cans  - Per Os pica a-noal tonsanetion is kilogram-
;i1rd,  -d  N~~~~~~~~~~~~tliti-  ~~~e timtd _tamdEsatit, prdoduion pi.a net impats ot   _ uepri_r
Population per phyeiciss - Population divided by ntber of prateicing
physicians vuelified fipn a nedical s-hool at university level



- 19 -
ANNEX I
rage 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GRO'XH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                         1960 -65           1965 -70           1970-76
GNP at Market Prices           492.93       100.0                         o.6                1.9                0.8
Gross Domestic Investment       75.48        15.3                        -3.5                9.3                2.4
Gross National Saving        -   0.02
Current Account Balance      -  75.30    _  15.3                         -3.6                2.1               -9:2
Eports of Goods, NFS           139.40        28.3                         3.2                6.2                4.5
Imports of Goods, NFS          228.60        46.4                         5.6                4.3               12.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197
Value Added                   Labor ForceY                    V. A. Per Worker
U5$ Ml.                            .                             US $
Agriculture                    248.13       50.0
Industry                        73.49       15.0
Services                       173.67       35.0
Unallocated
GDP Total/Average          .___.__
495.29    100.0                                                             100.0
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE /2                                                                               of GDP
(Million US$)
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976         1971    1976        1971 - 1976
Current Receipts               54.2    52.0    46.8    56.3    63.5    62.4          16.3    12.6            14.3
Current Expenditure            64.6    59.8    58-1    73.3    69.        80.6       19.4    16.3            17:3
Current Surplus               -        - 7.8   -11.3   -17.0   - .3 -i              -3.1   - 3.7            - 3.0
Capital Expenditures             3.8     3.5     4.9      0.2     1.4      0.0        1'1      0.0            o.6
External Assistance (net)        9.4     4.1     2.7      3.2     0.4    11.3         2.8      2.3             1.3
)VNE!Y  CREDIT and PRICES/2                19 71        1972         1973         1974        1975         1976
(Tllion US outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     40.1           40.7         41.7        62.3         69.6        81.9
Bank credit to Public Sector               5.2            9.3        12.3         14.0         10.5        17.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector             40.3           39.8        46.6         53.9         87.4        75.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         12.1           11.5         12.0        16.5         15.6         16.5
Consumer Price Index (1970 - 100) /3   106.2           109.3        115.2        128.2       148.3        153.3
Annual percentage changes int
Consumer Price Index                       6.2           2.9          5.4         11.3        15.7          3.4
Bank credit to Public Sector               4.0           78.8         31.2        13.8        -25.0        69.5
Bank credit to Private Sector            -15.0          - 1.2        17.1         15.7         62.2       - 1.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
I/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatede consists
mainly of unemployed morkers seeking their first job.
To reflect changesin the real values of financal flows, a constant exchange rate of CFA Francs 240/us$
is assumed in these tables.
] General Price Index not available for Chad.
not available
not applicable



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PADMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                  MEIRCHANDISE EXPORTS
1971           1976       Average 1971-1976
l9L      .1975     197 6                US  $ Mln  %   US $ Mln        US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           75.0    118.5    139,4         Cotton      19.O  45      84.o  83       36.8     61
Imports of Goods, NFS          100.0    237.0    228,,6        Others     23.3  55       16.7  17       23.3     39
Resource Gap (deficit =                 I) -25 7    -    5     Total       412.3 100    100.7 1070      M-T1   100
Workers remittances             0.7       -0.9     -1.3
Interest payments (net)        -1.8  ) - 2.3       -0.9
Other Factor Payments (net)   -0.4  )              -1.1
Net Transfers                   1.3       9.3      17.2
Balance on Current Account -~     9    -112.4    775.*3
Direct Foreign Investment       0.3      20.3     26.8             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                4.5       ,.        .                                                        US $ Mn
Amortization                 1.8
Subtotal                    2.7        5.3     11.2               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             250.0
Capital Grants                 28.9      53.3     68.4               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                _
Other Capital (net)             4.1       o.6      -8.0              Total outstanding including undisbursed 050.O
Other items n.e.i               0.7       0.7      -1.,7                         (of which dis\wrsed)          (95.4)
Increase in Reserves (+)       I.       -28.9     24.8             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976- '
Gross Reserves (end year)      11.2       3.1     23.2
Net Reserves   (end year)       8.2     -19.0       4.1              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              9.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Total outstanding including undisbursed  
Imports
of which:  PetroleLm.      10.2      14.422/ .
Exports
of which:  Petroleum         .          .        .       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (latest month) (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE tCFAF/US$)                                                                             BRD        IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                .         22.0
1971: 277     1974: 240                                        Undisbursed                            .         29.1
1972: 256     1975: 214                                        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          .         511
1973: 230     1976: 239
l/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Eactor Services.
/ Staff estimate
/ Unless otherwise indicated
not available
not applicable
January 6, 1978



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (January 31, 1978)
Credit
Number    Year      Borrower         Purpose             ------------US$ Million-----------
(less cancellations) (undisbursed)
125       1968      Chad        Highway maintenance          4.1                    0*
126      1969       Chad        Education                    2.2 /1                  -
251       1971      Chad        Education                    2.7 /2                 0.2
309       1972      Chad        Livestock                    2.2                    0.1
445       1973      Chad        Drought Relief               2.0                    0 **
489       1974      Chad        Irrigation                   7.5                    1.7
489-1    1976       Chad         Irrigation                  8.0                    8.0
490       1974      Chad        Second Highway               3.5                    1.0
592       1975      Chad        Lake Chad Polders            5.0                    3.4
664       1976      Chad        Rural Projects Fund         12.0                   11.2
739 /4   1977       Chad        Sahelian Zone Project        1.9                    1.9
Total now held by IDA                  51.1 /3                27.5
Total undisbursed                      27.5
/L   Includes supplementary credit of US$0.4 million.
/2   Includes supplementary credit of US$0.5 million.
/3   Prior to exchange rate adjustment.
/4   Not yet effective.
*    16,314.94 undisbursed.
**   23,919.28 undisbursed.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (January 31, 1978)
Nil.



_ 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 125      Highway Maintenance Project:  US$4.1 million Credit of
August 14, 196,3; Effective Date: February 11, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project consists of (a) a 5-year program for highway main-
tenance including technical assistance, the procurement of equipment and
materials, repair shop extension, training of operators and mechanics, and
establishment of traffic data col:Lection system; and (b) feasibility studies,
and if found justified, detailed engineering for the Djermaya-Djimtilo road.
The project was practically completed on December 31, 1973 but two
of its components were not implemented: the training program was dropped at
the Government's request because the cost of the consultants' proposals ex-
ceeded the amount available under the credit. However, a comprehensive train-
ing program is included in the Second Highway Project. The feasibility study
for improvement of the Djermaya-D-jimtilo road was completed; however, detailed
engineering found premature, has been deferred due to low traffic volume. The
project closing date has nonetheless been postponed to allow disbursements
of available credit funds to complement the training program being carried
out under the Second Highway Project.
Credit No. 126      Education Project:  US$2.2 million Credit of August 29,
1968 (as amended)jEffective Date: December 31, 1968;
Closing Date: Closed (fully disbursed).
The project consists of (a) the construction and equipping of a
teacher training college at Moundou and (b) the construction and equipping
of an agricultural technician training center at N'Djamena (transferred to
Sarh under Credit 251-CD).
The teacher training college has been completed and put into opera-
tion and the credit fully disbursed in the first quarter of 1976 about two
and a half years behind schedule. Reasons for the delay have been (a) delay
in reaching agreement on each stage of design; (b) the need to revise the
design and negotiate with the lowest bidder because of cost overruns; and
(c) the need to amend the Credit Agreement to resolve the financial problems
created by the US dollar fluctuation and internal budgetary difficulties.
However, this college will not be able to operate in the foreseeable future
because of inadequate budgetary funds to finance recurrent costs and lack of
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
technical assistance. An IDA mission is scheduled to visit Chad and dis-
cuss with the Government a plan for rendering this college operational.
Credit No. 251      Second Education Project:  US$2.7 million Credit
of June 16, 1971 (as amended); Effective Date:
December 28, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project consists of (a) the construction and equipping of a
secondary technical school at N'Djamena; (b) supply of complementary equip-
ment for the existing vocational training center at N'Djamena; (c) the
transfer of the agricultural technician training center, financed under
Credit 126-CD, from N'Djamena to Sarh; and (d) a study of young farmers'
training schemes.
The project is almost totally completed about 12 months behind
schedule due to (a) delay in reaching agreement on the educational and
architectural programs for the technical secondary school; (b) delay in
preparation of equipment lists; and (c) the need to amend the Credit Agree-
ment to resolve the financial problems created by the fluctuation of the
US dollar and internal budgetary difficulties. The new agricultural tech-
nician training center and the secondary technical school are not yet open.
It is unlikely that either of these institutions will operate this year be-
cause of difficulties similar to those outlined for the teacher training
college (Cr. 126-CD), namely inadequate financing and lack of technical
assistance. The same measures to be taken to render this last institution
operational would also be extended to the agricultural technician training
center and the secondary technical school. The Government has also received
an offer for technical assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany.
Credit No. 309      Livestock Development Project:  US$2.2 million Credit of
May 31, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978.
The project comprises: (a) the construction of 18 new pastoral
wells and the repair and rehabilitation of 20 existing wells in the Batha
prefecture; (b) the establishment of two well maintenance units, including
their operating costs for the first two years; and (c) special studies
carried out by a Livestock Development Unit (LDU) established with UNDP
assistance.
Although the credit became effective in November 1972, project
implementation was begun only following the Board's decision to finance
100 percent of project costs net of duties and taxes, and to establish a
revolving account, which became effective in March 1974. Well construction
and repairs were completed by end of 1976. Well maintenance units are in
operation. Most of the studies, including water extraction and livestock
taxation are completed. Field works on the remaining studies namely the



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
identification of pastoral groups and sheep and goats are also completed.
UNDP did not extend its assistance to LDU, due to unsatisfactory results
and this unit is now integrated in the Livestock Services.
Credit No. 445      Drought Relief Fund Project:  US$2.0 million Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is designed to help people in areas affected by the
drought to re-establish their productive base; it comprises the following
eight subprojects: equipment, workshops, technical assistance and operating
costs for underground water development; equipment and operating costs for
"Genie Rural", "Water Survey Bureau", and "Land Development Department";
equipment, buildings and operating costs for the Livestock Service; construc-
tion of warehouses; equipment and operating costs for a vegetable growing
pilot scheme; and equipment and operating costs for the Planning Department.
Physical execution of the pr,oject is satisfactory, with all of the
eight subprojects completed or nearly completed.
Credit No. 489      Sategui-Deressia Irrigation Project:-/ US$15.5 million
Credit of October 7, 1976; Effective Date: February 9,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project covers the development of 11,000 ha in the Sategui
Deressia plain, 5,000 ha inside polders under controlled flooding and 6,000 ha
outside polders under improved agricultural practices. The whole area will
be exploited by small farmers and the main crop is rice. It includes (a)
the construction by force account of an intake on the right bank of the
Logone River, a main canal, polders, feeder roads, buildings, a rice mill
and storage facilities, (b) the strengthening of the project authority, (c)
applied agricultural research, and (d) intensive in-service training. During
the first dry season period (1977) earthmoving equipment for project construc-
tion has been delivered as scheduled and implementation of earthworks was
carried out satisfactorily despite a general shortage of fuel in Chad. The
total polderized area amounts to 830 ha and yields are expected to exceed
appraisal forecasts. Other activities such as the use of labor for irriga-
tion works and building construction are carried out satisfactorily.
Credit No. 490      Second Highway Project:  US$3.5 million Credit of
June 28, 1974; Effective Date:  March 7, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises (a) a five-year program for improvement and
maintenance of feeder roads in cotton growing areas; (b) pre-investment
1/   Including the supplementary credit of US$8.0 million approved on
August 10, 1976.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
studies for about 120 km in cotton export routes; (c) a two-year training
program for DPW staff; (d) technical assistance for the reorganization of the
road transport industry; (e) a two-year traffic count on about 2,000 km of
the most important roads; (f) reconditioning of ferry boats and their interim
maintenance over a three-year period; and (g) feasibility study for replace-
ment of ferry boats and improvement of dock facilities.
Project implementation is about ten months behind schedule. Pre-
investment studies were completed. However, detailed engineering for the
roads studies were not implemented as one road was not economically justified
and the second was contingent upon construction of a soap factory which was
then cancelled by the Government. Because of higher than anticipated rate of
inflation, the delay in project implementation, and the increased requirement
for construction materials, a cost overrun is expected. The Association and
the Government agreed to include in the proposed Third Highway Project about
US$250,000 required to complete the five-year maintenance program.
Credit No. 592      Lake Chad Polders Project:  US$5 million Credit of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: February 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project comprises rehabilitation or construction of irrigation
and drainage networks of two polders of about 1,200 ha, to permit cotton and
wheat cultivation.
Although the project initially suffered a one-year delay because
the expatriate consultants were not appointed on time, this delay is pro-
gressively being reduced and should be made up by the time the second polder
developed under the project is completed. Most contracts have been awarded
and on this basis, project costs are estimated to be within appraisal esti-
mates. Building on this initial success, Government is exploring with other
external donors the financing of the contiguous Mamdi polder (1,600 ha),
which would bring the total area under polder development to 2,800 ha, and
thus create an important nucleus for development in that part of the country.
Credit No. 664      Rural Projects Fund:  US$12.0 million of December 8,
1976; Effective Date: March 2, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The project comprises seven subprojects: (a) small-scale
irrigation, (b) warehouses, (c) pastoral wells, (d) village water supplies,
(e) feeder road improvements, (f) animal feed and poultry marketing, (g)
bottomland development as well as a management unit.
The management unit is now fully staffed and key personnel have
been engaged for all subprojects. Execution of the work program for 1976/77
has suffered from delayed effectiveness but the project is now fully opera-
tional.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Credit No. 739      Sahelian Zone Project:  US$1.9 million of September 28, 1977:
Effective Date: March 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
The project comprises fourteen subprojects leading to (a) increased
development of crop farming, (b) sustained and improved animal health services,
(c) maintenance of water supply, (d) expansion of forestry activities, and (e)
increase in Government's capacity to deliver transport services. The finali-
zation of the cofinancing agreement by the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) is a condition of effectiveness; this condition has not yet been
met.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT
DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
a)   Time taken by country to prepare project:         18 months
b)   Project prepared by Government and IDA:
c)   First time documents presented to IDA:            September 1976
d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:                   February 25, 1977
e)   Negotiations completed in Washington:             February 24, 1978
f)   Planned date of effectiveness:                    June 30, 1978
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Appointment of the deputy Project Manager and Chief Accountant
(condition of effectiveness, para. 40).
2.   Opening of the Special Account (condition of effectiveness,
para. 42).
3.   Government would deposit in the Special Account any amount
disbursed therefrom and found by IDA to be ineligible for
financing under credit (para. 42).
4.   Government would by September 30, 1978 authorize by legis-
lation the prefect to grant official recognition to the
associations of pastoralists (para. 35).
5.   Full scale vaccination of small stock would be subject to
IDA approval (para. 36).
6.   After consultation with IDA, Government would issue Legisla-
tion on well maintenance fee (para. 37).
7.   Government would by December 31, 1978 review SERARHY's status
with a view to confering to it managerial and financial autonomy
(para. 40).
8.   Disbursements could be suspended if any part of the Project
Area becomes inaccessible to IDA staff for efficient super-
vision of the execution of the Project (para. 47).






I BROD 13103
'a.              IS'                          20' ~~~~~~~~~~~7-22'                                                    1977
N!  ER  '47*                      I  "-------~~~~~                                         'N,,~~ rho     ( SECONDFLIESTCK ROJE
/                                                             I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  (~~~~~~t?   ILT    
/~~~~~~~~~                                         tN
C  ~47   ,  *0015
'ftP  \           6'                                                                              ""'                   AeSkrvta <rE-EOUWMESWO~~~~B A T    H 
AC                                                                                                            Ij    ,                  :OESE  LY0000  F=F
*~~~~~~~~~~~7 A\/ 7 N
Ni                                                                            N/~~~N
r4hOU'                                                A           " /"'R 
CANTON     /'                                                                     &i,,- 
C  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
j2-  ' ~~~~~~~~~NDJAMENA                             ",,                             RIMorc!e1                                   -            0 04
n                 RI                          --c'MONGED~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(I500550
C  H  A      I-,JCNOOelcke$ORAYA08
0E    A~~~                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~ A  N                     0< oIro.cS'SFTI
0 1111INIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F0                                               15     0
SL                                                                      r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
C   $                       \~~~~~~~~&U$554t  1                                                                   ..   N~~~~~~~~M1   TMA
N~~~~~~'
K.  *'c'(                                                                                                          j~~~~~~. 
*01                        L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L .x
7                                        A~~~A 
O.                      O.~~~~~~~~~~~~ Occ
S                                                                                                                      0101/I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,Ao
-9,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      -
~~~~ILR E~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~0'
FOA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c    S   afWrO                                               rS                 /
r                                                                                                                                               CA~AROO4/ r" tiKaIaaooEMeoo



