a_cmnP of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
R.pt pb.. P-3617a-BR
REPORTAND RECGNIION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
iTERAIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEL ENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$303.0 MIJLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
*                 AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 15,1983
This dscineia b a ieuUcted iIbIhUe. n my a  be uued by rdiebus only in Mhe uwrfwin  of
The off" dooeJgu lb mi t   may mt ehwhe be dhdmei wite Wgd kik sudmism.



CRENCY QIVALNS
Calenari  1982                   September 7, 1983
Currency UnIt = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1  -  Cr$179.80               US$1  - Cr$668.00
Cr$1  -  US$0.0056               CR$l - 15$.0015
GOVEENEUT OF BRA    FISCAL IEA
January 1 - December 31
MSSARY AND AROmNs
ACC             Adastts bre 8        Amtrato   de CaubLo
(Advances an Export Contracts)
Bd              Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BACEN           Banco Cettral do Brasi
(Central Bank of Brazil)
CFP             Cdmpanhia de               da ProO."cao
(Company for Productio  F ng)
InC             Indice Nacional de Precas  o Coidor
(Nationl Consumr Price Index)
iNPs            Instituto Pesquisa
(Research Institute, Economic Planing Institnte, SEPLAN)
LIO             Londou Interbank Rate
NCR             Nanual de Normas e Istruccoes Credito Rural
(Rural Credit Manual)
ORTN            Obrigacoes Rea4ustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
(Readjustable Obligations of the National Treasury)
PNPE            Program Nacionale Pesquisa Economica
(National Economic Research Program)
PRO-EXPORT      Programa Pre-Financiamento Exportacoes
(The Agricultural Pre-Export Financing Facility)
PRO-INVEST      Programa de Investimentos Agricola
(Rural Investment Program)
SEPLAN          Secretarla de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Secretariat of Planning of the Presidency)



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Sumary ......................................    i - iii
PART I - THE ECONOMY  ...*........... ......*.........**....           1
*                    Recent Economic Performance ............................ .           2
1983 and Prospects for the Future  .............                    4
External Assistance and Creditworthiness  ...      0 ..........     6
Poverty Alleviation Programs  ..............................        7
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL  ...............  ...........      7
Lending Strategy  ............ . .............................      9
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ................ .........  .....  11
Agriculture in the Economy  .............................          11
Agricultural Policies  .....................................       12
Agricultural Credit           .......................................  13
Institutional Framework for Rural Credit         ................    13
Credit Volumes axd Subsidies  ..... ... ....... ............     15
Recent Agricultural Policy Changes  ........................    17
PART IV - THE PROJECT  ........................................       22
Introduct'on and Objectives  ...............................    22
Project Description  .................... ...................      23
Project Costs and Financing  ..............................      23
Rural Credit Component  ............................24
Agricultural Export Pre-Financing .27
Studies and Technical Assistance Component                       30
Project Reporting, Audit, Procurement and Disbursement
Arrangements ............. ............................    33
Project Benefits and Risks .35
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY  .....................       36
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS  ............................... .....      36
ANNEXES
I - Social Indicators Data Sheet and Economic Indicators
II - The-Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
III - Supplementary Data Sheet
IV - Bank of Brazil Financial Statements
V - Implicit Cost of Rural Credit Subsidies
VI - Rural Investment Credit Terms
VII - Agricultural Export Financing
VIII - Forecast Disbursement Schedule
IX - Documents in Project File
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only bi the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wor!d Bank authorization.



- i -
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries:      The Central Bank of Brazil
Private and Public Financial Intermediaries
Brazilian Agricultural Enterprises
Brazilian Agricultural and Agro-Industrial Exporters
Amount:             US$303.0 million equivalent including capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.8 million.
Terms:              Repayable over 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:   US$300 million of the Bank loan would be relent in
cruzeiros by the Central Bank through the Brazilian
banking system to finance:
(a) rural investment credit (US$100 million); and
(b) pre-financing for exporters of agricultural and
agro-industrial products (US$20(0 million).
US$200 million would be made available by the Government,
on the same terms as the Bank loan, to the Central Bank
to create a revolving fund in US dollars for export
pre-financing credits. The Central Bank would relend
these funds in US dollars at the 180-day LIBOR rate
prevailing two days before subloan commitment, plus a
0.25% spread for the Central Bank, to rediscount up to
35% of the eligible export pre-financing subloans
disbursed by participating banks. The participating
banks would convert these dollar subloans into cruzeiros
with the Ceptral Bank at the rate prevailing on the date
of subloan commitment to be onlent for up to 390 days at
a market-determined spread over the Central Bank rate.
Subloan repayments by the final borrowers would be in
cruzeiros at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of
the subloan disbursement. Payments to the revolving fund
by participating bankswould be in US dollars. Partici-
pating banks would be repaid directly by the export



- ii -
purchaser in the currency of contract and would assume
the third currency risk if the underlying export contrac.
were not in US dollars.
The US$100 million for rural investment credit loans
would be made available by the Government to the Central
Bank at the final on-lending-rates for subloans minus a
four percent spread for the participating banks.
Financial charges for subloans would follow a schedule
agreed with the Bank for the phasing out of rural credit
subsidies. The schedule adjusts rural credit financial
charges from 85% of monetary correction in 1983/84 (70%
in the North/Northeast), to 100I of monetary correction
by 1985/86, 85% in the North/Northeast. All credits
would carry nominal interest rates of 3% in addition to
monetary correction.
US$2.25 million of the loan w'juld remain with the
Government to finance an agrued program of studies and
technical assistance  n agri:ultural policies, planning
and services and investment jrogram preparation.
Project              The project would provide financing for new agricultural
Description:         investments and working capital for agricultural and
agro-industrial exports. It would also finance a series
of studies aimed at strengthening agricultural policies,
services and institutions. The project would support the
Government in adopting critical reforms in the
agricultural credit system, guarantee at least a minimum
flow of investment resources to the agricultural sector
this year and help strengthen and stabilize the domestic
credit market for agricultural exports. It would also
contribute to ongoing efforts to streamline the rural
credit system and support joint Bank-Brazilian efforts to
reassess and rationalize the policy environment for
agricultural development. The project is one of several
loans prepared under the Bank's Special Action Program.
Estimated Cost                    US$ million Equivalentl/
and Financing
Plan:                       Local            Foreign       Total
Estimated Costs
Rural Investment          365.0             50.0           415.0
Export Credit             572.0                0           572.0
Studies and Fee             1.5              1.5             3.0
Total Costs               938.5             51.5           990.0
1/  Taxes on farm implements, equipment and inputs, the main items expected
to be financed under the project, are negligible.



- iii -
Financing Plan:          Local           Foreign         Total
Bank Loan                                                303.0
Rural Investment          50.0             50.0          100.0
Export Credit            200.0              0            200.0
Studies                    1.50              .75           2.25
Fee                        0                 .75            .75
Central Bank
Rural Investment         200.0              0            200.0
Participating Banks
Export Credit            372.0              0            372.0
Beneficiaries
Rural Investment         115.0              0            115.0
Total Financing          938.5             51.5          990.0
Estimated                      US$ million by Bank FY
Disbursements:                    1984          1985
Annual          270.0          33.0
Cumulative      270.0        303.0
Rate of Return:     n.a.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No staff appraisal report has been prepared for this
project.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$303.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$303.0
million including a capitalized front-end fee of US$0.8 million to help
support the adoption of critical agricultural sector policy reforms and to
help finance rural investment credits and agricultural exports during a
period of difficult economic adjustments.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1/
2.        An economic report entitled 'Economic Memorandum on BrazilV
(Report No. 4674-BR dated August 22, 1983) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on August 22, 1983. The following paragraph, as well as the
country date sheets atta%ied as Annex I, summarize some of the principal
findings of that report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, tack
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. While the process of
political redemocratization has been its prime concern, much of ttc
Government's attention has necessarily been devoted to grapplirzi-{ oth
J inflation and a difficult balance-of-payments situation. Major eco;nomic
priorities of the Government include the growth of agriculture, reduced
dependence on imported petroleum, expansion of manufactured exports, and
increasing domestic savings, while at the same time improving the situation
of Brazil's economically most disadvantaged population.  Success on these
fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments
problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards and
better income distribution. In mid-November of 1982, Brazil held its first
major elections"since the mid-1960s. Opposition candidates captured the
governorships of several key states, including Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,
and Minas Gerais. A presidential election is scheduled for November 1984.
1/   Part I of this report is substantially the same as in the President's
Report on the Parana Market Towns Project (Report No. P-3560-BR dated
August 4, 1983). It is identical to the corresponding section of the
President's Report for the Export Development Project (Report No. P-
-BR) being distributed at about the same time as this report.



-2-
Recent Economic Performance
4.        Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by the quadrupling of the price of imported oil, Brazil had
enjoyel a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining
domes:ic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreign and
domestic trade.  After 1973 successive Brazilian governments attempted to
cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened terms of
trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and employment.
Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the general
policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and tax
incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expansion
and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity; inter-
mittent controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers;
heavy foreign borrowing; and an intensifying effort to reduce the growth in
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11% annual growth of the 1967-1973
period, GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974
through 1980. The merchandise trade deficit, which had ballooned to US$4.7
billion in 1974, was eliminated by 1977 as a consequence of a 52% nominal
increase in exports and an absolute reduction in imports.  Over the entire
1974-1980 period, nominal exports rose 153% as compared to an 82% increase
in Imports. Non-oil imports rose only 32%. However, the rapid accumula-
tion of external debt, which rose more tnan 3-1/2 times, the compression of
real imports, and the intensification of inflationary pressures increased
the economy's vulnerability to the further sharp increase in petroleum
prices and the rise in interest rates which occurred in 1979 and 1980.
Thus, over those two years, the current account deficit more than doubled
to reach US$12.4 billion, and international reserves fell by US$5 billion.
Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        In response to the deteriorating balance-of-payments and rising
domestic inflation, the primary immediate objective shifted from growth to
stabilization. M.onetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which had
lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line with
inflation. IlAterest rate controls were removed from commercial bank
lending, and the rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The
intention was both to dampen aggregate demand and to encourage external
capital inflows.  Although still highly subsidized, the interest rates
charged on official loans were also increased. The previously eliminated
tax incentive to exports was temporarily restored, and the financial
transactions tax applied to foreign exchange operations for imports was
raised from 15% to 25%.
7.        As a consequence of these measures, GDP declined by 2% in 1981,
with the industrial sector in and around Sao Paulo being particularly hard
hit by high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer
durables purchases. But the trade balance impcoved from a negative US$2.8
billion in both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current
account deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion increase (to US$9.2



- 3 -
billion) in net interest payments abroad. Contributing to the trade
surplus was a 33% increase in manufactured exports and the further
contraction of petroleum imports. International reserves rose US$687
million, to the equivalent of 4 months of goods imports (compared to 3.6
months coverage at the end of 1980). Domestic inflation fell to 95%. The
policy measures introduced and the ensuing balance-of-payments improvement
served to sustain the confidence of the international banks, and no
problems were experienced in raising the US$10 billion in required net
borrowing during 1981.
8.        The slowdown of international trade caught up with Brazil in
1982, with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of
the theretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by 13% in 1982 relat-ve to 1981. Imports were
also down, resulting in a US$767 million trade surplus, which, however, was
significantly below earlier expectations. At the same time, the interna-
tional financial community reduced its lending to Brazil following first
the war in the South Atlantic and, later, the Mexican liquidity crisis, and
Brazil was forced to increase its short term borrowing and draw down its
reserves in the last quarter of 1982. The current account deficit for 1982
totaled US$14.5 billion, the highest in the country's history, mostly
reflecting record high interest payments. These interest payments (US$8.5
billion) plus amortization of existing medium and long term (M&LT) loans
(US$8.7 billion) exceeded net disbursements of new M&LT loans (US$15.2
billion), constituting a negative net M&LT resource transfer.
9.        The 1981-82 stabilization effort in Brazil has placed heavy
reliance on monetary policy. The money supply in real terms fell, and the
Government has relied on the sale of indexed bonds to finance its large
fiscal deficits. Restrictive monetary and credit policies, alongside the
large public sector deficit and the channeling of available financial
resources into certain priority areas, have resulted in very high real
interest rates in the relatively free portions of Brazil's segmented
financial market. Real interest rates of 40-50% have become common. As a
result, private investment has fallen dramatically, contributing in a major
way to the continuing recession, now in its third year. Reflecting the
depressed domestic economic conditions, manufacturing employment in the
State of Sao Paulo fell by over 20% between November 1980 and April 1983.
For 1982, GDP fell by about 1%, while inflation continued at just below
100%.
10.       In late 1982, the rundown of Brazil's international reserves, the
reluctance of international commercial banks to roll over existing loans
and to extend further credits, and deteriorating international market
conditions led Brazil to seek assistance from the International Monetary
Fund in support of its adjustment program. Adverse external circumstances
have considerably complicated Brazil's economic situation and have rendered
short-term adjustment both more compelling and more arduous. To support
the Government's 1983 austerity program, in February 1983 the IMF pledged
financial assistance on the order of US$5.4 billion (including both
compensatory financing and the Extended Fund Facility) over 1983-85.
Coupled with this financing package were commitments by the international
commercial banks for 1983.



- 4-
1983 and Prospects for the Future
11.       The country faces a difficult period of adjustment in 1983-84.
A major objective for 1983 is to generate an unprecedented trade surplus, of
US$6 billion, thereby reducing its current account balance of payments
deficit and its external borrowing requirements. In order to increace -he
chances of attaining the ambitious US$6 billion tride surplus target, the
crugeiro was devalued by 30% in February 1983.  The cruzeiro will continue
to be devalued in line with domestic inflation, implying some additional
real depreciation as external prices rise. Simultaneously, the Government
has temporarily imposed stricter, emergency-oriented, import restrictions.
Despite a slow start and continuing adverse international market
conditions, Brazil appears to be on target in attaining the US$6 billion
trade surplus for 1983. By the end of June the cumulative trade surplus
for the first half of the year had reached US$3 billion. While much of the
surplus is attributed to reductions in imports, export performance in the
past few months has improved considerably. June 1983's exports exceeded
those of June 1982 by 19%, pushing up the cumulative growth in relation to
the first six months of 1982 to 6%. Reaching the US$6 billion trade
surplus will mean that Brazil's current account deficit will be about US$8
billion or some 3% of GDP.
12.       Less success has been achieved in attaining the 1983 internal
stabilization targets.  In the beginning of 1983 measures were announced
to: (a) reduce the consolidated federal public deficit through both
expenditure cuts and revenue increases; (b) restrain monetary and credit
expansion; (c) decrease credit and commodity subsidies; and (d) reduce
overall wage indexation to less than 100% of cost-of-living increases.
According to the Government estimates of the consolidated federal deficit,
the program announced in early 1983 and embodied in the internal credit and
financing ceilings in Brazil's agreement with the IMF, if fully complied
with, would have brought about the reduction of the deficit as a percentage
of GDP from 6% in 1982 to a surplus of 1% in 1983.2/ By May 1983 it had
become apparent that this ambitious target, involvTng a 7% change in the
deficit as a percentage of GDP, was not being met. Because of the failure
to comply with the associated public sector financing requirements in the
Fund's agreement with Brazil, the I[F suspended the second disbursement of
its EFF of US$411 million scheduled for May.  Negotiations between the
Brazilian Government and the IMF are currently underway to revise the
stabilization -ogram and the ceilings in the Fund agreement with Brazil.
2/   The IMF computes the public sector's borrowing requirements, which are
much higher than the operating deficit. The discrepancy derives from
definitional and conceptual differences rather than statistical ones.
The Brazilian Government estimates of the consolidated public sector
deficit relate to current expenditures and do not incorporate the
accrued monetary correction of the federal internal debt as a current
expenditure. The IMF, on the other hand, for this purpose prefers to
treat the monetary correction on the debt as a current expenditure and
to express the public sector's financing requirements in nominal
values. Thus, the respective concepts can be translated into each
other, once the rate of inflation is given.



- 5 -
13.       In June 1983 the Government announced a new package of
stabilization measures. The stabilization program during the first half of
1983 had been complicated by a reacceleration of the inflation, in part
attributed to the February devaluation, and a growing climate of economic
uncertainty. Renewed efforts have beet' directed at reducing the
consolidated public sector deficit. A more rapid phase-out of agricultural
credit subsidies was announced. Prices of goods and services produced or
marketed by the public sector such as petroleum derivatives and wheat, were
substantially increased, reducing implicit consumer subsidies and the
accompanying public enterprise deficits. The control agency for the
federal public enterprises has been strengthened, and a new public
enterprise budget has been implemented, involving a further 20Z cut in the
investments of such firms. At the same time, wage policy has been modified
to provide less than full cost-of-living indexing to wages and salaries.
14.       Continued support of the international financial community, and
particularly the commercial banks, is necessary for Brazil to achieve the
objectives of the IMF-sanctioned austerity program for 1983 and beyond. To
this end, the Government completed negotiations for a four-point financial
assistance plan with foreign commercial banVs at the end of February. The
banks agreed to: (a) extend new loans available in the aggregate of
US$4.5 billion; (b) roll over for an additional 8 years US$4.6 billion of
medium- and long-term loans falling due in 1983; (c) make available up to
US$9.4 billion in short-term commercial credits; and (d) restore to
approximately US$7.5 billion the level of deposits held by foreign banks in
overseas branches of Brazilian banks (falling short of the original US$10
billion target for interbank credits). Once these arrangements had been
made, IMF assistance was approved on February 28, 1983. Particular
problems have been experienced with the interbank lending component. The
sualler banks have been especially anxious to reduce their Brazilian
exposure; as a result by July 1983 interbank credits to Brazil amounted to
only about US$5.8 billion. Because of this shortfail, a reduction of
expected foreign direct investment, higher than anticipated interest
payments, and other contingencies, it is expected that Brazil will require
an additional US$3-4 billion for 1983. Despite acute short-term liquidity
difficulties during the last year, Brazil, unlike several other countries,
has not resorted to commercial bank interest payment suspensions or
unilateral bank debt rescheduling measures. A new external financing
package from the commercial banks for the remainder of 1983 and 1984 is
expected as a subsequent part of a renegotiated agreement between the
Brazilian Government and the International Monetary Fund.
15.       Brazil's balance of payments would benefit from a continuing fall
in the LIBOR and in world petroleum prices. Because about 70% of the
country's medium- and long-term debt bears variable interest rates, each 1%
drop in LIBOR would mean a savings of about US$500 million. For each
dollar reduction in the price of a barrel of oil, the imported oil bill,
which accounted for about 50% of total imports for 1982, would fall by
US$300 million at current consumption levels.



- 6 -
16.       Savings on imported oil could be even greater as domestic oil
production increases and energy conservation continues. Since 1973 Brazil
has made major efforts to reduce petroleum imports. Investments in oil
exploration have been accelerated, with additional steps taken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potentIal and to substitute alcohol for
gasoline. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation,
particularly through pricing policies. As a result of these and other
policies, domestic gasoline consumption was reduced by more than 10%
between 1979 and 1982, and domestic petroleum productlon increased by about
50% over the same period. Petroleum and petroleum derivative imports,
which totaled US$10 billion in 1982, have been reduced to an annual level
of US$7-8 billion in the first half of 1983.
17.       In view of the balance of payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance
of international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and realistic
prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments will continue to be constrained by
reduced resource availabilities over the next several years, and foreign
lenders, including the Bank, should be prepared to finance a higher
proportion of project costs, including, when necessary, a part of local
costs. The development of domestic energy sources, export promotion,
agriculture, and the stimulation of domestic savings will continue to
require priority attention.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With reduced but reasonably satisfactory access to external
capital, Brazil may aim for some growth in 1983-87, with an expected GDP
decrease in 1983 of about 3.5Z followed by recovery in 1984 and gradually
increasing growth to about 5% by and beyond 1986. Such a scenario is
compatible with a falling current account deficit through 1987.
19.       The Government expects gross M&LT commercial bank borrowings to
be limited to US$10 billion in 1983, a reduction of 20% relative to 1982.
Such borrowings imply projected net M&LT borrowings of US$6.5 billion,
constituting a 9% increase in Brazil's gross M&LT external debt. In the
event of greater external resource availability, some build-up of reserve
levels and/or relaxation of import restrictions is expected. By 1985,
projected net M&LT borrowings will fall below the 1983 level and the net
M&LT debt service ratio is expected to decline from 82% in 1982 to
approximately 69% in 1986.
20.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to exogenous
factors such as petroleum prices, international interest rates, and world
market conditions makes projections subject to a wide margin of error.
Also, the present scenario depends on Brazil 's abiUity to reduce the
consolidated public sector deficit, expand manufactured exports in a weak
world economy, and attain continued access to international commercial bank
lending. These objectives will not be easily achieved. Moreover, tangible
results of the austerity program are not likely to be seen until the latter



-7-
part of 1983. Instances of short-term cash flow problems, therefore,
cannot be ruled out. However, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic,
diversified, and relatively resilient, and policy-makers have repeatedly
demonstra.-Ld their ability to adjust to changing circumstances. With the
Government's commitment to the austerity program in 1983 and with IXF
support, Brazil should be able to make the adjustments needed to cope with
adverse international circumstances and to reorient the economy toward a
more efficient development path for the remainder of the decade. Thus,
Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
magnitudes described above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
21.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security
health programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and
upgrading and expanding previous health services for the poor have received
much Government attention. Increased Government efforts have also oeen
directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved
provision of water and sewe:age services.3/ In part as a reflection of
these and other programs, there are some indicat 'ons, based upon
preliminary estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial
living standard and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable
absolute real income gains were realized by all income decile groups.
Unlike the 1960s, the poor do not seem to have been left behind by the
rapid economic growth experienced during the 1970s. Non-income gains, as
reflected by improved access to public-services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the
impact of the stabilization program on the economy and the necessity to
increase the number of jobs so as to absorb new entrants into the labor
market, it is likely that the austerity measures currently pursued by the
Government impose a disproportionate burden on the poor, particularly in
urban areas.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By March 31, 1983 the Bank had made 119 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$7,672.9 million (net of cancellations), of which 65 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
3/   For a more detailed account of these efforts, see  The Distribution
of Income in Brazil  (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated 3eptember
1979) and -Brazil - Human Resources Special Report  (Report No.
2604-BR, dated July 13, 1979).



- 6 -
and US$764 million in FY83. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1983
was US$3,773.8 million.  Annex II contains a stmmary statement of Bank
loans.
23.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In.FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. In FY83, seven loans totaling
US$1,457.5 million were approved. They included US$8.9 million for a
project to help finance the preparation of future investment projects in
the metropolitan region of Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil,
US$304.5 million for an iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas,
US$154.0 million for a third seco-ndary and feeder roads project, US$220.0
million for a second development banking project, US$302.3 million for a
water and sewerage sector project, US$67.8 million for a second rural
development project in the State of Bahia, and US$400.0 million for a Third
Agro-Industries credit project. For FY84, documents for a US$52.7 million
Ican for a market towns development project in the State of Parana are
expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. The
documents for a US$352 million industrial export development project are
being distributed at about the same time as those for this project. Work
is advanced on the third phase project of the Northwest region development
program, a rural electrification project, a power distribution project,
supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and rural development
projects, and a primary health care project in the State of Sao Paulo.
24.       Within the agricultural sector, the Bank has so far made 27
loans, totalling US$1,431.9 million. These include three, totalling
US$519.2 million for agro-industries, two totalling US$60.5 million, for
livestock development; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two,
amounting to US$100 million for agricultural research; one for US$100
million to improve agricultural extension services; and 20, totalling
US$689.7 million for various settlement, irrigation and rural development
projects, 13 of which are located in the Northeast. In addition, Bank
loans for fertilizer production, nutrition research and development, are
having a direct impact on agricultural production and rural development.
The Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports issued for the grain
storage and livestock development projects noted significant differences
which developed between the Government and the Bank regarding interest rate
policy, leading to partial cancellation and/or early repayment of the
loans. Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports have been recently
issued for the first agro-industries credit project and the Alto Turi land
settlement project. It appeared that implementation of the agro-industries
credit project was hampered by frequently shifting Government policies
which included, especially after 1973. the rapid development of subsidized
competing credit programs. These problems, however, have since been
corrected and a follow-up project is proceeding satisfactorily. The Alto
Turi settlement project was found to have benefited a substantial number of
settlers, raising their cash incomes beyond initial expectations. The
project was less successful on such aspects as environmental protection,
community organization and strengthening of credit and marketing
cooperatives. These shortcomings are being addressed under a follow-up
project.



-9-
25.       Brazil's external medium and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$68 billion at the
end of 1982. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 9% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4%.
26.       As of March 31, 1983, IFC commitments to Brazil rotaled US$921.09
million, of which US$602.62 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$318.47 million, US$248.89 million represent loans and
US$69.58 million equity. A summary of IEC's investments as of March 31,
1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
27.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with iower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
28.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by tLe Executive Directors on February 22, 1983 are being
reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing under
the recently approved Third Agro-Industries Project, financing of a higher
share of project costs during the initial implementation years for the
Second Rural Development in the State of Bahia, and greater use and
streamlining of the operation of Project Special Accounts into which Bank
funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need for the
Government to prefinance Bank's share of project costs, and which allow
disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the exchange rate prevailing on
the date of expenditure. A supplemental financing loan for ongoing
agricultural and rural development projects is also under discussion with
the Government. The proposed industrial export development project and the
agricultural credit and export development project presented in this
report, are consistent with the Guidelines established under the Special
Action Program and have been developed as part of that program.
29.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES to
strengthen industrial development along these lines have already been made,



- 10 -
and much of Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector-railways,
ports and highways-is designed to facilitate the economic flow of
exports.  Sector loans to industry, envisaging a restructuring of incentive
and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, are now being
considered. Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export
growth and import substitution and poverty alleviation, adjustments in this
sector will be crucial to Brazil 's transition from stabilization to
growth. The steps already initiated to eliminate the subsidy element in
rural credit, if continued and complemented by appropriate measures for
rationalizing sectoral policies, would permit a major increase in Bank
lending for agriculture over the next several years. The proposed project,
conditioned upon the elimination of rural credit interest rate subsidies
and linked to a joint review of agricultural policies, is expected to be
the first in a series of policy-based operations designed to support
Brazil's longer-term agricultural and rural development.
30.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the developmeunt and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Future
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing government subsidies to the energy sector.
31.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for
nutrition, primary education, vocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco
river basin, and integrated rural development were designed to assist
low-income groups in rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the
Northwest. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of
Minas Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South,
loans for urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and
services and low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in
medium-sized cities are assisting the improvement of the living conditions
of the urban population, particularly of the urban poor.
32.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. The
Bank also serves as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources.
Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international
financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's development
prospects. In some sectors, especiaUly in electric power and industry,
Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater
amounts from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982,
ten co-financing operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and



- 11 -
signed with private financial institutions. Cofinancing opportunities are
rather limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of
commercial bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the
framework of the debt rescheduling package. Cofinancing could become more
important in future years, however, and the new cofinancing instruments
developed by the Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to
provide Brazil with additional lending on appropriate terms.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
33.       Brazil's agriculture sector4/ employs about 36X of the country's
economically active population, and contributes about 1OZ of gross domestic
product and half of export earnings. Aggregate agricultural performance has
been remarkably good since World War It. With the growth of sectoral value
added averaging about 5% per year, agriculture has been a principal earner of
foreign exchange at the same time that it has provided raw materials,
foodstuffs, savings and labor to urban industry. Agricultural exports,
including processed farm products, have grown 17% per year in nominal terms
since 1965 and have accounted for two-thirds to three-fourths of total
exports through the post-war period. More recently, agriculture has been
called upon, in addition to its traditional developmental role, to make a
major contribution, through the creation of energy-producing biomass,5/ to
reducing Brazil's heavy dependence on imported petroleum. In addition, the
Third National Development Plan 11980-1985) stresses agriculture's importance
as a source of new employment opportunities, thus contributing to the relief
of both rural and urban poverty.
34.       While aggregate agricultural performance has been satisfactory,
there have been variations in the relative performances of the major product
groups and among the several regions of the country. Most of the output
gains, e:panded production areas, and increased market integration
experienced in the recent past have occurred in the south and Center-West of
the country, while the North and Northeast have largely continued to use
traditional agricultural practices with rudimentary technology. New
investments in agricultural research and special regional development
programs should permit a more balanced growth, but a rapid closing of the
regional disparities is unlikely.
4/ For further discussion of the agricultural sector, see A Review of
Agricultural Policies in Brazil Report 3305-BR of September 11, 1981.
5/ The Bank is participating in this program through Loan 1989-BR,
President's Report No. P-3039-BR of April 23, 1981.



- 12 -
35.       In the post-war period, the composition of Brazil's agric"iltural
production has undergone a significant transformation. The relative
decline of coffee, cotton and the major traditional cereal crops was
paralleled by the relative increase of soy beans, followed by wheat,
citrus, fruits and vegetables. This transformation mirrors the evolution
of export patterns in a sector historically characterized by a series of
export -booms,' the most recent example being Brazil's success in
penetrating world markets for soy beans, poultry and orange juice. These
achievements have resulted from sophisticated agricultural research
combined with entrepreneurship highly responsive to new technological
opportunities. These forces are now turning to new opportunities ranging
from non-traditional exports to improvements in food crop productivity that
promise further expansion in the sector.
Agricultural Policies
36.       Agricultural policies since 1970 have supported the multiple
goals of expanding exports of processed and manufactured products while
restraining prices of retail foods and of inputs for processing or import
substitution activ-ties.  Retail food prices have risen little relative to
general price levels in this period, while agricultural farmgate prices for
many primary agricultural products, at least until 1980, rose considerably.
Public policy protected the consumer through an array of retail price
controls and subsidies, facilitated by productivity improvements in
production, processing and services. Most price controls on agricultural
products (except milk and wheat) were removed during the last quarter of
1979, and the minimum price program was revised with the intention of
improving farm incentives. A new system of crop credit insurance was
introduced, a special plan and incentives for the expansion of alcohol
production were put into effect, a reform of land tax legislation was
introduced, and increased attention was to be given to investments in
infrastructure and research. Since 1980, increases in the prices of some
non-export crops have been held below the rate of inflation by a series of
indirect interventions designed to protect the urban consumer, constrain
urban labor costs and limit overall inflation. The principal direct
agricultural price intervention of the Government applies to wheat, for
which the Government is the sole importer and purchaser. The wheat
subsidy, originally designed to stimulate production expansion to reach
self-sufficiency, became a major consumer subsidy, costing Cr$422 billion
(about US$2.3 billion equivalent) in 1982. Subsidies for sugar also grew
substantially in this period in parallel with the alcohol energy
substitution program.
37.       To sustain export growth and maximize domestic value added,
limitations (export taxes, quotas, quality controls, prohibitions and
supply guarantees for local processors) were placed on unprocessed
agricultural products while tax exemptions and credit subsidy progra-s were
introduced or expanded for manufactured exports. Exports of unprocessed
agricultural products were thus constrained, even though offering in some
cases higher economic return, while their financing became almost entirely
dependent upon foreign credit lines. These policy actions were consistent
with a post-war pattern generally viewed as giving priority to local
industry over agriculture.



- 13 -
Agricultural Credit
38.       The principal incentives to agriculture have been the provisior of
credit and the minimum price guarantee program, both at preferential interest
rates which were viewed as compensation for an overvaluation of the cruzeiro,
the higher input costs associated with an industrial policy of import-
substitution, and rising rural wages. These subsidies facilitated shifts in
land use and increasing farm mechanization, but they also had other,
negative, effects discussed below.
Institutional Framework for Rural Credit
39.       Rural credit in Brazil has long been dominated by official, or
publicly managed, credit arrangements, in terus of institutions, resources
and lending policies, including the obligation to charge officially-mandated
interest rates. The rural credit system, as officially defined, is composed
of four federal banks (Bank of Brazil (BdB), Bank of the Northeast, Bank of
Amazonas, and the National Cooperative Credit Bank), 21 state commercial,
savings and development banks and 81 private commercial banks, together
comprising more than 8,500 branches. Agricultural credit policy is
determined, as are monetary and credit policies generally, by the National
Monetary Council, chaired by the Minister of Finance. Control over the
execution of policy is vested in the Central Bank.
4U.       Rural credit is funded through three primary channels.  The system
is dcminated by Bank of Brazil (para 42-44), which has provided more than 65%
of total rural credits in each of the last ten years, funded from its -own-
resources which originate primarily from the Central Bank through the large
floating debt (conta de movimento) the former holds with the latter.
Secondly, most regulated financial institutions, particularly commercial
banks but recently iacluding investment banks, are obliged to provide rural
credits in amounts representing significant shares of their portfolios. The
importance of this source of funds has increased from 12% in 1980 to some 28%
in 1982, as the Monetary Council has increased :he mandatory allocations to
rural credit lending. At present, the obligatory rural lending of these
institutions equals 25% of their total credit outscanding or 35% of total
sight deposits, whichever is larger, and must carry official interest rates.
In 1982, commercial and investment banks were also obliged to lend up to 10%
and 5%, respectively, of their outstanding portfolios for rural investment
credits carrying rates of 100% of monetary correction plus 8% to 12Z nominal
interest. Finally, about 8% of 1982 credits were provided through Central
Bank on-lending (repasse) to public and private commercial banks for the
large number of special credit programs for particular regions, groups or
activities. These credits are allocated through the Monetary Budget and
funded through fedetal budget transfers, Central Bank advances, monetary
emission and external borrowings. Thus, the fe-'eral deficit or the money
supply absorb the cost of credit subsidies inherent in Central Bank repasse
or Bank of Brazil lending, as well as the obligatory subsidies in the rural
credit operations of public commercial banks, while the private barks pass on
the impact of obligatory subsidized credits through higher interest rates in
the unregulated sector.



- 14 -
41.       Credit Delivery.  In terms of delivery, rather than funding, the
official banks, including BdB, provide upwards of 85% of total rural credit.
Bark of Brazil's share in investment credit delivery has been increasing as
the responsibility for delivery of seasonal credit has been gradually shifted
to the private commercial banks. Short-term credits (seasonal and marketing)
have represented at least 702 of all private commercial bank lending to
agriculture. Bank of Brazil, along with other public banks, has also
increasingly assumed much of the responsibility for reaching small and medium
producers, who have represented more than two thirds of BdB's rural benefi-
ciaries since 1977. In terms of value, however, credits to small producers
have represented less than 20% of total rural credit and in few areas of
Brazil do more than one-third of such producers participate in the
institutional credit system. Credit has also been concentrated in the more
developed center and southern regions of the country, with the North/
Northeast regions receiving only 20% of total rural credit.
42.       Bank of Brazil.  Bank of Brazil is a Monetary Authority, along with
the Central Bank. Until 1964, these two institutions were combined within
BdB.  It is also Brazil's largest commercial bank and ranks as the nineteenth
largest commercial bank in the world. Eight-five percent of BdB shares are
held by the Government, which also appoints its management, but 15% are held
by the public, and BdB shares are among the most actively traded in Brazil.
Its total assets at the end of 1982 were US$86 billion equivalent, and equity
totalled US$10.6 billion equivalent. Fifty percent of its operations, or
approximately US$9.6 billion equivalent in 1982, were in rural credit,
followed in importance by export credits. BdB maintains a network of 1,828
agencies and 427 advance rural credit posts in Brazil, through which it tries
to achieve the Government objective of bringing banking and public services
to the interior of the country. Bank of' Brazil's financial statements are
presented in Annex IV.
43.       BdB continues to perform a variety of services for the Government,
from lending for priority activities to administering the export
incentive/import drawback program and the rural retirement and savings
system. More than 2,000 of its 119 thousand employees are on secondment to
state and federal government departments and banks. It is generally
considered to have among the best trained and best quality staff of any
public organization in Brazi'L. BdB retains an open non-interest bearing
account with the Central Bank, the conta da movimento, which automatically
advances funds or creates money, as necessary, to cover BdB's operations.
The conta has permitted BdB to steadily e-pand its subsidized credits and
execute the often otherwise unfunded programe in the Monetary Budget. The
automatic nature of this account, and BdB's status as a monetary authority,
have subjected its operations in recent years to severe credit controls by
the Monetary Council. Bank of Brazil has pioneered in the simplification and
debureaucratization" of rural credit i  Brazil through the decentralization
of operations and management, while keeping credit arrears at levels of 6-9%
through effective supervision.



44.       Monetary Budget.  The monetary budget officially authorizes all
operations undertaken or funded by the two Monetary Authorities. Bank of
Brazil traditionally executes many non-banking functions as a service to the
Government, a role which has actually increased both in relative and absolute
terms since 1979. Many of these functions executed by BdB, such as the wheat
or petroleum subsidy, are actually fiscal expenditures altliough they never
appear in the fiscal budget. The monetary budget has become an alternative
expenditure budget, but without a revenue or defic3t constraint, depending
upon BdB's money creating powers to fill any resource gap. This practice has
accelerated significantly since 1979. In 1980, the total monetary budget
equaled 75% of that year's fiscal budget (orcamento da uniao). By 1982, the
monetary budget, which totaled Cr$5,411 billion (tS$30 billion equivalent),
equaled 155% of the fiscal budget. In 1982, orly one-third of the
expenditures authorized by the monetary budgcc were actually funded by
resources allocated for this purpose; the balance was funded by money
emission or credit creation. Almost 80% of the 1982 monetary budget was
quasi-fiscal expenditures Cintra-Gov-rnment transfers, rural credit, minimum
prices, sugar, wheat, petroleum subsidies, financial expenses of the
Treasury). Several major costs implicit in monetary budget operations are
not even noted in the monetary budget, particularly the subsidies implied by
negative interest rates for authorized credits, further increasing the
unacknowledged monetary budget "deficit". This system has made monetary, and
therefore inflation, control extremely difficult. Introducing adequate
costing and funding arrangements into the monetary budget, particularly the
funding of its "fiscal expenditures- from the fiscal budget, to minimize the
..monetarization- of these expenditures and credits and to ensure basic
financial control, has been a primary concern of the Bank for many years.
Credit Volumes and Subsidies
45.       In 1979, a renewed appreciation of agriculture's impertance to
Brazil's growth was borne out of a heightened sense of vulnerability to
external shocks. Support for the sector was expressed in sharply expanded
rural credit. Rural credit volumes rose some five times in real terms
between 1969 and 1979 as compared to a 2.7 fold increase in the net value
added of agricultural output. Although most credits in Brazil's indexed
financial system have carried monetary correction linking them to movements
in inflation, agricultural interest rates have been set at fixed rates
infrequently adjusted and unlinked to monetary correction. In 1969,
agricultural interest rates ranged from 14% to 18% in nominal terms, with
annual inflation at 20.1%. By 1979, with inflation reachilg 77% per year,
rural credit interest rates ranged from 7% nominal for special credit
programs in the Northeast Region to 13-30% nominal for conventional credits
in the Center-South area, depending on loan size. Concurrently, the number
of these special credit programs, usually carrying preferential interest
rates, multiplied, such that, by 1979, there were at least 170 such
programs. By 1980, to constrain the growing cost of the subsidies in the
face of accelerating inflation, itself partly fed by the fiscal and monetary
impact of these subsidies, the Go-vernment slowly began to reduce the real
volume of available rural credit. Rural credit interest rates were increased
but continued to lag behind inflation.



16 -
46.       From 1979 to 1982, total rural credit declined in real terms by
about 18%. To protect the flow of short-term planting credits, which were
considered essential to mk-intain production levels, these reductions were
achieved through drastic restriction in investment credit supplies, which
fell by more than 50% in real terms between 1979 and 1982. Seasonal credit
continued to expand. In 1979, investment credit represented 421 of recorded
agricultural credit, with 40% for seasonal and 18Z for short-term marketing
(principally minimum price support) credit. By 1982, investment credit had
fallen to 27% of the total, seasonal credit representing 50% and marketing
credit the remaining 23%. Restrictions finally began also to be imposed on
crop production credit in 1982. Also, as noted above, an increasing share of
the responsibility for rural credit was shifted from the Bank of Brasil to
the private commercial banks in an effort to reduce its monetary impact.
47.       Nevertheless, with nominal interest rates ranging from 5% for some
special programs in the Northeast to 45% for conventional credits in the
Center-South, and inflation at 96.7%, rural credit subsidies expanded further
in 1982. Concurrently, free market interest rates, bearing full monetary
correction, soared to real levels of 30% to 40% by mid-1982, with some
short-term rates reaching annualized levels of 260% or more, due to the
combined effect of monetary controls, compulsory lending requirements and
inflationary fears.
48.       Agricultural marketing credits in Brazil primarily relate to the
minimum price program, which provides short-term financing against federally
specified minimum prices in the post-harvest period, following repayment of
seasonal credit. Such credits are tied to an elaborate series of regulations
for participation in the minimum price program which has restricted
participation to more sophisticated producers and to processors of the major
cash crops (cotton, rice, corn and, particularly, soybeans), although the
program covers some 42 commodities. Since 1981, minimum prices, set at
planting, have been indexed until harvest. 1982 nominal unindexed interest
rates for minimum price credits were fixed at 35% in the North/Northeast and
45% in the rest of the country. Participants in the minimum price program
have the option, not only of government-subsidized borrowing against minimum
prices, but also of selling their inventory to the Government at the minimum
price. Since 1982, crop purchase resources have been increased at the
expense of the credit program. 1982 outlays for minimum price program
credits totaled some Cr$147 billion (about US$0.8 billion equivalent) and for
minimum price program crop purchases some Cr$229 billion (about US$1.3
billion), both funded through the federal monetary budget. BdB was solely
responsible for executing the minimum price programs until 1980, when
commercial banks were also allowed to offer these services. The
Interministerial Working Group on Agricultural Policy (para 63) is presently
reviewing the minimum price program for possible improvement and reform.
49.       By 1982, nearly 70% of the domestic financial assets of the
monetary authorities were earning negative real interest rates. Total rural
credit outstanding in 1982 was about Cr$2.7 trillion (US$15.1 billion
equivalent). The implicit fiscal cost of all outstanding credit subsidies in
the system was in the order of Cr$3 trillion (US$16.7 billion equivalent) or



- 17 -
5.6% of GDP, of which rural credit subsidies were responsible for about
two-thirds. As most of this cost was financed through the emission of
ORTNs6/ (long-term, interest bearing, fully indexed government obligations),
the public secto,r accounts will long continue to bear the burden of these
subsidies.
50.       As a result of pressures to satisfy short-term credit requirements
while remaining within agreed monetary targets, almost no rural investment
credits have been made available so far in 1983 through the Bank of Brazil
(BdB) or the repasse system, except through selected special programs.  Most
commercial bank rural credit has also been concentrated in short-term
operations. The impact of the near elimination of investment credit on the
development of the agricultural sector has already been felt in the slowing
improvement of agricultural productivity.
Recent Agricultural Policy Changes
51.       The Government's 1983 austerity program (paras 11-17) has brought
with it a series of critical policy changes affecting the agricultural
sector. In order to meet absolute quarterly ceilings on the growth of the
unified fiscal budget and official borrowings, various subsidies, including
the substantial subsidies for wheat, are being drastically reduced.7/ To
help meet targeted reductions in the current account deficit and achieve the
1983 trade surplus objective of US$6 billion, long standing taxes on, and
limitations to, the export of unprocessed agricultural products have been
reduced, relaxing the bias in favor of processing and import substitution
while reinforcing the export promotion '.mpact of the February 1983
maxi-devaluation.  However, by far the most critical of the policy reforms
underway is the phasing out of subsidies in rural credit.
52.       In January 1983, the Government increased rural credit interest
rates for "normal" credits in the Center-South Region from an unindexed rate
of 45% to an indexed rate of 70% of the Consumer Price Index (INPC) plus 5Z
6/ Readjusted Obligations of the National Treasury, the primary vehicle
for long-term government borrowing and the primary public debt
instrument in recent years   The ORTN bond carries the option of
inflation or exchange rate correction of the loan principal. Change in
the market value of the ORTN bond is therefore generally considered the
most reliable index of monetary correction for financial instruments.
For fuller discussion of ORTN index and mDnetary correction, see Staff
Appraisal Report, Brazil: Third Agro-Industries Credit Project, Report
No. 4363-BR, of April 1, 1983 and Brazil: Financial Systems Review,
keport No. 2790a of November 18, 1980.
7/ The 1983 wheat subsidy is budgeted at Cr$346.7 billion (US$0.6 billion),
down 75% from its 1982 levels, as a result of 306% increase in retail
prices to be achieved by the end of the year.



- 18 -
nominal interest.8/ The INPC was estimated at 78%, and a fixed interest
rate determined oini the basis of this forecast, yielding an effective interest
rate of 60%. Concurrently, the percentage of estimated credit needs of
larger farmers to be met from official credit lines carrying these rates was
reduced to 50% for large producers and 70% for medium producers, the balance
of these borrowers' credit requirements to be met through compulsory rural
credits (para 40) from private banks at monetary correction plus 8%. In this
manner, the Government hoped to bring the average marginal cost of rural
credit in the Center-South, which absorbs 80% of total rural credit, to at
least equal actual inflation, in line with a proposal included in Brazil's
first Letter of Agreement with the IMF, signed in February 1983. This
mechanism sought to satisfy critics of low rural credit interest rates
without implying any commitment about future levels of official interest
rates, or limits to their fiscal or monetary impact. Volumes of official
credit disbursed at the negative interest rates were reduced somewhat.
However, inflation soon exceeded the forecasts implied in these new interest
rates and the actual 3avings achieved by these policy changes were small.
Nevertheless, this first effort to index rural credit interest rates proved a
starting point for further discussion of credit policy reforms.
53.       Recent Understandings Reached with the Bank.  The rationalization
of agricultural credit policies, particularly the phasing out of credit
subsidies, has long been a major issue in the Bank's dialogue with Brazilian
authorities on agricultural and macroeconomic policies. In 1980, the Bank
ceased financing agricultural credit components of new rural development
projects and preparing a long-?roposed small farmer rural credit project
until substantial reductions in credit subsidies could be agreed.
54.       In February 1983, discussions were reopened on renewed Bank support
for agricultural credit in the context of a timetable for the elimination of
subsidies. The agreement now reached, which is the principal basis for the
proposed project, provides for achieving full monetary correction for the
majority of credits, those provided in the Center-South of Brazil, by July
1985, with parallel movements, as shown below, in the politically more
contentious interest rates for the North/Northeast regions, both for normal
and special credit programs. The phasing out program provides for adoption
of movements in the ORTN index as the monetary correction index for rural
credit. The ORTN has traditionally been used as the index of choice for
financial obligations. The phasing-out program applies to all three types of
rural credit, production (custeio), marketing and investment.
55.       The interest rate schedules prevailing in 1982, those adopted in
January 1983, and those agreed to date with the Bank, are all shown below.
It should be noted that the new rates for rural credits in the Northeast are,
for the first time, indexed and linked within a close band to national
rates. Further, interest rates for nearly all special programs are being
unified at the -normal" regional rates. Special rates remain for only seven
special programs, for the particularly disadvantaged Northeast and North
regions. These programs (Sertanejo, Polonordeste, Prohidro, Procanor,
8/ At the same time, rate changes were announced for normal rural
in North/Northeast region, to take effect July 1, 1983, raising
rates from 35% unindexed to 55% of the INPC, calculated on the
ex ante forecasts, plus 5%.



- 19 -
Probor, Proterra and Poloamazonia) represent about US$74 million in rural
credit allocations out of the total 1983 rural credit budget of US$6.7
billion and had carried fixed nominal interest rates of 5Z to 12% without
monetary correction. Under the agreemeut, financial charges for these
programs are being raised to approximately 80% of the phasing out schedule
for "normal' credits in the North/Northeast.9/ The increased subsidy
resulting from this differential for these six programs is expected to be no
more than US$10.5 million equivalent by 1985,86.10/ Concurrently, financial
charges for investment credits for amounts greate-r than US$3,500 equivalent
for farm equipment, vehicles, cattle and forestry in all regions have been
set at 100% of monetary correction plus a 3% interest rate.
Rural Credit Interest
Rate Schedules
Rates Prevailing in 1982
Y Monetary        Interest
Correction          Rate
Normal credits, North/Northeast                              35%
Normal credits, other areas                                   45%
Special Programs, North/Northeast            -                5-12%
Special Programs, other areas                                 35%
Rates Announced for January 1983
% 'Monetary
Correction       Interest
(INPC)           Rate
(Calculated ex ante)
Normal credits, North/Northeast              -                35%
Normal credits, other areas                  70%               5%
Special Progams, North/Northeast             -               5-12%
Special Programs, other areas                                 35%
9/ For the purposes of rural credits, the North/Northeast region comprises:
the legally defined areas of SUDENE (the states of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and
Bahia) and SUDAN (the legal Amazon, including Amapa, Para, Amazonas,
Roraima, Acre, Rondonia, Mato Grosso and the North of Goias), the state
of Espirito Santo and the Vale de Jequitinonha in the State of Minas
Gerais.
10/ The amount of subsidy obviously varies with inflation, given partial
indexation of these rates. This estimate assumes 1982 inflation
levels.



- 20 -
Phasing-Out Schedule
Agreed with the Bank
X &aonetary Correction
(ORTN, Calculated expost)
Interest
7/83-6/84  7/84-6/85  7/85-6  6        Rate
Normal credits, North/Northeast       70         80          85            3X
Normal credits, other areas           85         95         100            3X
Special Programs, North/Northeast   70           80          85            31
Special Programs, other areas         85         95         100            3X
Seven Excepted Special Programs,
North/Northeast                     55         65          70            3X
Farm equipment, vehicles,
cattle, forestry                   100        100         100            3X
56.       The "phasing-out" interest rate schedule described above was
adopted by the Monetary Council on June 9, 1983. At the sane meeting,
the Northeast, Espirito Santo and Northern municipalities identified by the
Ministry of Interior as within the area covered by the "five year drcught
emergency," were, however, exceptionally authorized to continue to carry, on
a temporary basis, 1982 rates for rural credit."1/ Credits disbursed in
these municipalities in 1982 totaled about IIZ iF national rural credit
(i.e., Cr$ 139 billion or US$775 million equivalent). The increased subsidy
resulting from excepting these credits from the phasing out for the Northeast
is approximately US$295 million equivalent in the 1983/84 crop year. The
drought-affected commmnities will join the phasing-out interest rate
schedule, at whatever point it is in the timetable, at the first planting
following the first post-drought harvest.
57.       This exception for the drought-affected municipalities is an
emergency program, which happens to be channeled through the banking system.
The banks, which have the widest network of outlets with financial control
capabilities, have executed similar programs in the past. Most of the
"credits" finance farmer subsistence and small irrigation works.  To budget
and control these costs more accurately, the Government has agreed that,
beginning with the 1984 fiscal and monetary budgets, this subsidy expense
will be an explicit line item in the monetary budget and matched with
specific transfers from the fiscal budget to the monetary budget sufficient
to cover these outlays. For the remainder of 1983, the Government has
substantially increased fiscal transfers to levels (Cr$ 2.5 trillion, US$4.1
billion equivalent) more than adequate to cover remaining credit subsidies.
With the adoption of these accounting and funding arrangements, this
temporary and geographically limited exception is consistent with the overall
policy of moving toward the elimination of credit subsidies on a firm
timetable.
11/ Carta Circular 901, published July 11, 1983 by the Central Ban
the municipalities experiencing drought emergency conditions.



- 21 -
58.       Even with these commitments, normal credits in the North/Northeast
region are not scheduled to carry full monetary correction, necesssary to
protect at least the principal value of the resources applied, by the end of
the phasing-out schedule and will in fact remain 15 percent of monetary
correction below the charges prevailing in the rest of Brazil. Therefore,
from 1985 until such time as full monetary correction can be introduced, the
Government has agreed to budget in both the fiscal and monetary budgets the
full cost of this monetary corfection differential and to finance this
subsidy fully and exclusively from these fiscal budget allocations (Section
4.02c of the draft Loan Agreement). This arrangement will avoid the
monetarization of these subsidies and permit budgetary control of their
cost. Perhaps more important, this arrangement for the first time makes
explicit in the budgeting process the real cost of this preferential
treatment, estimated at approximately US5130 million for 1984. Concurrently,
a study will be undertaken to determine how these interest rate preferences
can be substituted by more effective means of channeling these resources into
North/Northeast development, to permit the elimination of these subsidies
within a short period. it is the Government's intention to discuss the
findin.s and recommendations of this study no later than June 30, 1984.
59.       As part of its recent negotiations with the IMF, the Government has
sought to constrain the compounding effect of indexation on accelerating
inflation by purging from its indexes the immediate effects of the sudden
elimination of subsidies, such as those for wheat, sugar, gasoline and
credit. Toward this end, the ORIN index in July will be allowed to increase
4.5% slower than recjrded inflation. It is expected that this wlll be the
only such  purge  to affect the ORIN this year.  The agreement provides that
this index will remain within 90% of actual inflation as measured by the
General Price Index over the previous twelve months (Section 5.01f of the
draft Loan Agreement). Under these conditions, the risk of further
manipulation of the index seems sufficiently limited to nut affect the
integrity of the phasing-out policy agreement.
60.       The Monetary Council also adopted another positive policy change:
monetary correction for investment loans will be computed every six months,
as wiU be interest, and both will be capitalized during grace periods. For
short-term credits, particularly those for less than six months, monetary
correction would now be calculated ex-post at the time of repayments and
based on actual inflation in the period. The previous system was based on
ex-ante inflation forecasts, which have tended to underestimate real
inflation, thus increasing the effective subsidy.
61.       The implicit cost of credit subsidies, before and after the
phasing-out agreement, are shown in Annex V. These calculations are based on
the amounts of actual new rural credit disbursed in 1982 and the 1982
inflation rate of 99.7%. As 1983 inflation is expected to be at least 1382,
actual subsidies under either 1982 or phasing-out interest rates would be
substantially higher than those calculated for 1982. However, the subsidies
would have been much higher under the old, fixed rates than under the new
partially indexed xates. Thus, the relative subsidy for 1983/84 would be
substantially smaller than that incurred in 1982, although the severe
increase in inflation has increased the absolute cost of the remaining
interest differential. 1983 credit volumes are likely to be smaller in real



- 22 -
terms. Estimated annual savings due to the phasing out would be in the order
of US$2.9 billion equivalent in 1983/84 and US$3.7 billion equivalent by
1985/86, even with the drought exception (see Annex V). The savings in 1983
represent almost 1.0% of forecast GDP. By 1985/86, the total annual fiscal
cost of new rural credit subsidies would be US$1.3 billion, even in the
unlikely case that the drought continues, as compared with US$5 billion in
1982. Of this total, US$795 million would represent subsidies for credits in
the North/Northeast region, including US$636 million for the drought.
62.       Agricultural Incentives and Policy Formulation Review.  Rural
credit subsidies have long been the principal vehicle for stimulating
agricultural development in Brazil, while pricing, trade and other decisions
affecting the sector were often deter-,ined largely in response to
short-term macro-economic pressures or the needs of other sectors. An
appropriate analytical framework and institutional mechanism which would
permit policy-makers to focus on sector economics and efficiency have been
lacking within the fragmented policy management structure and rapidly
changing economic environment. With the phasing out of the credit subsidies,
it becomes essential to remedy any disincentives to agricultural expansion
and productivity improvements and to ensure the necessary preconditions for
efficient and balanced sectoral development.
63.       Toward this end, the Bank and the Brazilian Government with Bank
support, has initiated a review of agricultural sector policies and
incentives. The study is designed to review the entire framework of
agricultural incentives and policy. The critical issues to be examined in
the initial phase of this review are: structural reforms needed for the
rural financial system; price formation and price intervention policies in
agriculture; reassessment of the minimum .price system; and comparative
advantage and appropriate commercial policies for agriculture. Studies
undertaken by Brazilian and Bank-sponsored experts are to be completed in
Oetober 1983 resulting in an integrated policy paper. This paper is to be
reviewed with the Bank in late 1983, and is expected to influence price,
trade and credit policy decisions to be taken in 1984 and thereafter. In the
meantime, it is essential that the flow of resources to the sector be
maintained at an adequate le-el to permit it to achieve its contribution to
the near-term adjustment process. The proposed project was developed with
Brazilian authorities as the most appropriate mechanism to support this
objective.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Introduction and Objectives
64.       The purpose of the proposed project i3 to support Brazil in
the adoption of critical. reforms in agricultural policies by providing
resources which could be quickly disbursed for priority agricultur.'- sector
credit on-lending mechanism for investment credit. The project would also
support Brazil's agricultural exports by establishing a rediscount system for
agricultural export credits and would help to improve agricultural policies,
services, institutions and investment planning through a program of studies
and technical assistance.  These objectives are consistent with the Bank's



- 23 -
strategy for supporting development and attempting to minimize the economic
and social cost to countries umdertaking structural and policy adjustments in
the face of adverse external circumstances * The project is a first step in a
long-term cooperative effort to strengthen agriculturalz sector policy and
planning.
65.       The proposed project was identified ir February 1983.  An appraisal
mission was conducted in March/April, 1983. Negotiations for the proposed
project were held in August 1983. The Brazilian negotiating team QaS headed
by Dr. Narcelo Nonnenberg of SEPLAN. The Loan and Project Summary at the
front of this report provides a brief description of the main project
characteristics. There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report. Further
details on the project are presented in Annexes VI and VII.
Project Description
Project Costs and Financing
66.       The proposed Bank loan of USS303.0 million would support the
foUlowing activities:
(a) US$100 million would support the establishuvnt of a general
agricultural investment credit line (Pro-Invest) in the Central
Bank (Part A of the Project),
(b) USS200 million would help establish a revolving fund, Pro-Export,
to rediscount prefinancing credits for exporters of agricultural
and agro-intustrial products (Part B of the project);
(c) US$2,240,000 would finance studies, consultancles and other
technical assistance for the review and improvement of
agricultural policies (Part C of the project); and
(d) the reraaning US$760,000 would represent the capitalized front-end
fee on the loan.
67.       The total cost of activities (a) and Cb), based on prevailing
credit ceilings and lending policies, plus the estimated cost of (c) and (d),
is expected to be about US$990 million. Activity (a) would have a total cost
of USS415 million for rural investments. Taxes equivalent on the items
expected to be financed in this credit program are negligible, as farm
equipment and implements are almost entirely exempt from both federal and
state tax in Brazil. Total costs are presented in the Summafry. page ii.
68.       The proposed loan would cover the entire foreign exchange component
of US$51.5 million, including US$.8 nillion for the capitalized front-end
fee, along with US$251.5 million in local costs. This local cost element
includes USS200 million for Pro-Export, to cover working capital needs of
exporters.
69.       Retroactive financing of up to USS30 million equivalent wouLd be
permitted to reimburse 30X of Pro-Invest subloans committed and disbursed
under the phasing-out lending terms from August 11, 1983, the date of
publication of Central Bank Circular No. 809, regulating Pro-Invest. This
circular was reviewed by, and is acceptable to, the Bank.



- -UA! -
70.       The following table provides a summary of project cost and
financing estimates. The Bank loan would represent about 31% of total
estimated project costs.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
(in US$ million equivalent)
Central Bank/
Monetary     Co-mprcial
Bank     Budget          Banks   Beneficiaries Totals
A-Rural Investment
Credit              100.0      200.0           0         115.0       415.0
B-Export Pre-Finance 200.0         0           372.0        NA         572.0
C-Studies/Technical    2.240       0             0           0           2.240
Assistance
Front-end Fee           0.760      0            NA          NA           0.760
Total                 303.0      200.0         372.0       115.0       990.0
Shares of Financing   30.6        20.2          37.6         11.6Z     100Z
The Government would be the borrower and would assume the exchange risk on
an but Part B of the Project, for which the final borrower would assume any
US dollar/cruzeiro exchange risk and the participating commercial bank would
assume any third currency exchange risk (as explained in para 85 and Annex
VII).
Rural Credit Component
71.       US$100 million under the project would be allocated to reimburse
one-third of the rural investment credits committed and disbursed by
Pro-Invest, under conditions and regulations, specifically including the
interest rate arrangements discussed in para 55, agreed with the Bank
(Sections 4.02 and Schedule of the draft Project Agreement). Pro-Invest was
established by the Monetary Council on June 9, 1983, as a seIt(?te repasse
credit line in the Central Bank under the General Fu id for Agriculture and
Industry (FUNAGRI) in the annual monetary budget. In establishing this
credit line, the Monetary Council has transferred to Pro-Invest as lending
resources Cr$150 billion (approximately US$300 million equivalent) in
investment credit resources allocated to Bank of Brazil in the 1983 Monetary
Budget but unutilized due to the current restraints on BdB's operations as a
monetary authority. It appears that Pro-Invest will represent almost the
entirety of the cural investment resources available in Brazil for 1983.
72.       Financing would be available through all banks participating in the
rural credit system (see para 39). The resources in Pro-Invest will
initially be allocated among these banks according to their recent patterns
of rural investment credit lending activity. The allocations proposed will
be reviewed with the Bank. Further allocations would reflect the speed of



- 25 -
the respective institutions in their use of these funds, so that all
institutions which could efficiently utilize these resources will have access
to them. Pro-Invest will follow usual repasse (on-lending) procedures: the
Central Bank will authorize each participating bank to commit and disburse
credits for authorized purposes, for refinancing by the Central Bank, against
reimbursement requests submitted periodically by the banks. In the case of
Pro-Invest, such requests would be submitted weekly and also serve as
disbursement requests to the Bank.
73.       The proceeds of Part A of the loan would be made available by the
Government to the Central Bank for Pro-Invest at the same terms as those on
which the Central Bank is to on-lend the funds minus a 4% spread to be paid
to the participating banks on the loans disbursed. The entire cost of any
differential between the cost of Bank funds to the Government and the Central
Bank on-lending terms would be absorbed by the Government (Section 3.01f of
the draft Loan Agreement). The Central Bank would require no spread on these
loans. Participating banks would assume the credit risk. Credit procedures
would be consistent with those specified in the Rural Credit Manual (MCR).
74.       Rural Investment Compone-nt Management.  Part A of the project would
be managed by the Rural Credit Department of the Central Bank. The
Department's responsibilities in the project are essentially those of
allocating and collecting funds, monitoring disbursements and data
collection, tasks fully consistent with their responsibilities for the last
15 years and of which they are fully capable. The Central Bank and BdB will
follow their standard field inspection procedures, which are considered
adequate to ensure that subloans are used for the purposes agreed.
75.       Subloans Characteristics and Impact.  As specified in the
Pro-lnvest Circular, which has been reviewed and agreed with the Baxk and
published August 11, 1983, (Section 2.01d,i, and Schedule B of the draft
Project Agreement), Pro-Invest subloans would finance 100% of proposed total
investment costs for small producers, 70% of proposed total investment costs
for medium producers and 50Z for large producers, using the definitions of
producer size specified in the NCR. For equipment and other loan categories
carrying 100% monetary correction, however. Pro-Invest would finance 90Z of
iavestment costs for medium and large prcducers. Foi irrigation and land
reclamation investments, consistent with the national PRO-VARZEAS and PROFIR
programs. Pro-Invest would finance 80% of investment costs for medium and
large producers. Maximum subloan amount for equipment credits would be
US$200,000, except where an integrated package of varied heavy equipment for
a single farm is purchased, in which case the ceiling would be US$400,000.
Relatively few such packages are expected. In exceptional cases, after
consultation with the Central Bank and the Bank, lar2er loans may be
considered. No beneficiary could have more than one subloan outstanding from
Pro-Invest at any given time.  A summary of these on-lending and eligibility
conditions and loan maturities are presented in Annex VI. These arrange-
ments, while still complex, represent a substantial simplification and
standardization of current requirements which differ widely by loan purpose,
beneficiary and funding source.
76.        Given the absence of almost any rural investment credit resources
for any purpose for several years, and the excessive multiplication of



- 26 -
special purpose credit lines, it has been agreed that Pro-Invest should be
open to any type of rural investment credit authorized by the Rural Credit
Manual (NCR). It is impossible, therefore, at this time to forecast
precisely the types of rural investments for which the subloans wil be
used. Nor is any a priori allscation of credits by purpose proposed, to
permit flexible response to market demand. However, the Government has given
priority to, and expects demand to be concentrated in, the categories of farm
equipment, land clearing, soil amendment, soil erosion control and land
reclamation, for which resources have been particularly scarce in recent
years and for which substantial unsatisfied demand has developed.
Substantial potentially attractive investments requiring land clearing
financing have been initiated but are delayed by scarcity of appropriate
credits. Brazil's stock of farm equipment has not been significantly renewed
or upgraded for several years. Soil amendment and erosion control
investments in the Center-South and frontier regions, as well as the North
and Northeast states, are of critical importance to maintaining, as well as
expanding, Brazil's agricultural production, particularly in light of severe
recent floods in southern Brazil's prime production areas.
77.       Pro-Invest, a permanent revolv:ng fund for rural investment credit,
would be expected to finance about 4,500 subloans of an average size of about
US$65,000 for investment operations of an average cost of about US$90,000.
It is assumed that 10% of the volume of the credit line would finance small
producers; 40Z, equipment for medium and large producers; and 50%, miscel-
laneous on-farm investments, half of it for medium producers and half for
large producers.
78.       Subloan Appraisal Standards.  The MCR, including the Circular
describing Pro-Invest, defines the eligibility and financing conditions for
each of the several types of rural invo'stment credits. Within this
framework, the participating banks, which assume the credit risk on these
loans, determine their own appraisal standards. As most of the authorized
investment transactions are quite traditional and straightforward, with well
established lending criteria common among most Brazilian financial institu-
tions, project appraisal quality is expected to be satisfactory. The Bank
has worked closely in its rural development and agro-industry projects with
the institutions likely to utilize the majority of Pro-Invest resources,
including Bank of Brazil, the state and regional financial institutions and
the major private commercial banks, and considers their loan processing and
appraisal procedures and capabilities satisfactory.
79.       Given the extremely low level of agricultural investment in recent
years, it is reasonable to assume that the marginal rate of return on the
subloans to be financed out of this relatively small fund would be
substantial. To ensure that Pro-Invest funds are used for sound investments,
the Pro-Invest Circular sets a minimum standard of real financial rates of
returns of 12X (Schedule of the draft Project Agreement) for these
investments by medium and large producers. It is not intended in this
operation, nor is it considered appropriate, to request the participating
banks to calculate economic rates of return on these transactions. There is
every reason to expect that economic returns to these investments would be
substantially higher than the financial returns. At present, the most
important remaining economic distortion is perhaps over-priced labor,



- 27 -
accompanied by high levels of unemployment. Foreign exchange is not expected
to be seriously overvalued during the disbursement period.  Recent Government
policy adjustments have eliminated most other distortions.  Consideration of
economic costs for labor in sub-project analysis would only improve upon the
12% minimum financial rate of return required.
80.       Review Procedures.  It is not the practice of the Central Bank to
request prior review of repasse subloans.  The Rural Credit Department has no
capacity for such review, and the development of such capacity at this time,
while overall rural credit financing arrangements are being reviewed, does
not appear appropriate. Nor does Bank review of numerous, relatively small
loan proposals to purchase standard packages of farm equipment, to clear land
or add nutrients, appear justified. The Central Bank would, however, collect
as standard data from each bank, along with disbursement data, data on the
purpose and financial rate of return for each subloan (Section 2.01f of the
draft Project Agreement). Such information would be sent to the Bank monthly
for subloans greater than USS$200,000. In addition, supervision missions
would undertake spot checks of subprojects in the field. The Bank would
moreover be consulted on any equipment loan in excess of US$400,000
equivalent (Schedule of the draft Project Agreement).
Agricultural Export Pre-Financing
81.       The primary instrument for working capital financing to exporters
in Brazil is the export contract advance (adiantamento sobre contrato de
cambio), commonly referred to as an ACC. An ACC is a discounted export
receivable, roughly comparable to the transaction underlying a bankers
acceptance, with a maximum maturity of 390 days but an average maturity of
typically no more than 90 days. While i*ndustrial exports benefit from a wide
array of special credit arrangements, agricultural exports, and most
agro-industrial exports, have been financed mainly through commercial credit
lines. However, since export contracts are typically denominated in the
currency of the contract of payment, usually US dollars, and therefore carry
exchange exposure (see para 85), such financing has relied on often
undependable foreign credit lines or Central Bank exchange coverage. A
sizable funding gap in these resources is threatening to undermine Brazil's
export capability at the time when it is most essential for financial
stabilization. The market for domestic financial resources to support these
exports also has been quite thin and variable. Strengthening and stabilizing
the financial arrangements for these exports, perhaps as a prelude to the
eventual creation of an internal banker's acceptance market, is important for
the maintenance of Brazil's agricultural exports and development of their
growth potential. The credit market for agricultural exports is described in
more detail in Annex VII.
83.       US$200 million of the proceeds of the loan would be made available,
at the Bank's standard terms, to the Central Bank for the Agricultural Eyport
Pre-Financing Facility (Pro-Export) which would reimburse up to 35% of
commercial banks' ACCs for exports of agricultural and agro-industrial
products. The entire counterpart for this loan allocation would be provided
by the eligible financial operations of the participating cciamercial banks.
No Central Bark or other Government resources would be involved in



- 28 -
Pro-Export. Pro-Export would be established by vote of the Monetary
Council. Beneficiaries would be agricultural producers, processors or
traders.
84.       The rediscount facility would be a permanent revolving fund,
continually replenished by repayments and fees and maintained in US dollars.
In operating Pro-Export, no disbursement will be made for transactions that
at any point exceed 35Z of the total value of eligible transactions, as
explained in Annex VII. An eligible transaction would be any ACC supported
by an export contract for an agricultural or agro-industrial product.
Following current standard practice, an ACC could finance up to 100Z of such
contracts. Formal establishment of Pro-Export in the Central Bank and
receipt by the Bank of satisfactory guidelines for the facility, specifying
arrangements for operation in conformity with this rule, including norms for
proposed accounting and control systems, would be a condition for Board
Presentation (Section 2.01c of the draft Project Agreement). It is expected
that the disbursement of the Bank loan allocation for the first revolution of
Pro-Export would be completed satisfactorily within 45 days of loan
effectiveness, after which it would revolve for the agreed purposes as
resources become available from repayments.
85.       An ACC advance is a foreign exchange transaction for the commercial
bank which executes the operation. A conventional ACC represents three
separate transactions for the bank. The first transaction, with the
exporter, is:
buy US$ forward (the export contract, which is endorsed over
to the commercial bank), selling Cr$ spot (the advance, made
in cruzeiros), at the prevailing exchange rate.
In Brazil, as in most countries, commercial banks are not allowed to maintain
uncovered foreign exchange positions, to discourage currency speculation.
The above transaction created an exposed US$ -bought- position for the bank,
which it must cover by the end of the day, in currency if not in maturity,
but -selling" US$. The bank must also raise Cr$ to fund the ACC it has
authorized. Since the bank does not have in hand these US$, and the
,interbank currency market is only a spot market by law, also to avoid
:speculation by financial institutions, the bank must seek a foreign credit
line to provide US$ spot in exchange for the export contract, a forward
asset. The second transaction is therefore:
borrow US$ spot from a foreign credit line, to be repaid with
the proceeds of the export contract, when realized.
With these USS spot in hand, the bank can then complete the transaction:
sell US$ spot on the interbank market, for CrS spot to fund
the ACC.
This last transaction covers the bank's US$ bought exposure, in currency if
not in maturity. The commercial bank assumes the inter-maturity US$ exchange
risk in its foreign credit line transaction, although with the current
crawling peg system this risk is negaLgible. The last transaction also
provided the Cr$ for the ACC. Thus, the export pre-financing system is



- 29 -
dependent on foreign credit lines, or some other mechanism to provide Cr$
spot for forward US$ exposure. A funding gap of at least US$2 billion, and
possibly as high as US$3.5 billion, is projected in foreign credit lines to
cover 1983-84 exports, 60% of which would finance agricultural o-
agro-industrial products.12/ The proposed component would help fill this
gap, serving the purpose of both the foreign credit line and the interbank
market, selling the bank dcllars "spot' and immediateiy converting these into
cruzeiros. The ACC transactions which will be financed by the commercial
banks as counterpart to Pro-Export will be financed in the conventional
manner, with existing foreign credit lines and the interbank market. In both
cases, the proceeds of the export sale will be paid directly in foreign
exchange to the commercial banks through their foreign correspondent banks.
For the proposed component, the commercial bank would be obligated to repay
the Central Bank from these proceeds, but in US dollars. Thus, if the
currency of the export contract is other than US dollars, the commerical bank
would assume this exchange risk. If the export sale is not realized, the
borrower (exporter) must cover the commercial bank's resulting exchange
imbalance, which usually means providing cruzeiros sufficient to buy US
dollars on the spot interbank market at the then current exchange rate.
86.      Resources in Pro-Export would be on-lent by the Central Bank at a
fixed rate based on the 180-day London Interbank (LIBOR) Rate posted by the
Central Bank two days prior to the respective rediscount transaction.  The
Central Bank will receive a 0.25% spread over the applicable LIBOR Rate on
each transaction to cover the costs of administering Pro-Export. The final
rate to beneficiaries would be market-determined. Terms and conditions for
these on-lending arrangements are reflected in Schedule A to the draft
Project Agreement.
87.   The resources in the facility would be allocated daily among the 84
banks eligible to conduct foreign exchange transactions. This allocation
arrangement is essential to permit the banks to manage their currency and
credit excposures. These allocations would be reviewed regularly to reflect
market demand and experience. Thiis allocation mechanism, already well
defined, is explained in Annex VII.
88.       Subloan Characteristics and Impact.  It is estimated that
Pro-Export would directly finance an additional US$600 million per year in
agricultural and agro-industrial exports, assuming an average financing of
100% of contracted value, with three revolutions per year and an average
maturity of 90 days. Even more importantly, the facility is expected to
induce a larger number of local financial institutions to enter this market,
12/ Brazil has interbank trade credit commitments of abutt US$10 billion,
with half earmarked to finance imports. Assuming about 2.5 revolutions
annually (3 for agricultural products, 2.5 for manufactured products),
this US$5 million would finance about US$13 billion of Brazil's average
US$22 billion in exports, leaving a funding gap of up to US$3.5 billion
for 1983/84. The Central Bank estimates the final funding gap at about
US$2 billion, expecting more efficient use of available resources and
higher Central Bank exchange coverage from its limited available
reserves.



- 30 -
providing at least 65% of total financing against Pro-Export's 35Z direct
contribution, as a condition for refinancing. Thus, Pro-Export should
indirectly stimulate financing of a further US$1.1 billion in exports. It
cannot be accurately estimated at this time specifically which of Brazil's
agricultural or agro-industrial exports are likely to be submitted for
financing by the facility. Periodic Central Bank reports should provide
sufficient data to assess its impact (para 100).
89.       Pro-Export Management.  Part B of the project would be managed by
the Exchange Department of the Central Bank, whose staff have been involved
in the design of Pro-Export, and who are fully competent.
90.       Subloan Appraisal and Review.  Detailed criteria for financing of
ACCs are defined in numerous Central Bank manuals and are acceptable. ACC
financing is a traditional Brazilian commercial banking activity, in which
all the 84 banks eligible to conduct these transactions are well-experienced
and in the supervision of which the Central Bank has developed substantial
expertise. The existing procedures, together with those proposed for
Pro-Export, are considered adequate. No prior Bank review of these
transactions, for which rapid disbursement is expected, is proposed. Regular
Central Bank reports to be submitted with disbursement requests for
Pro-Export would indicate the product financed, export arrangement, subloan
terms and other data as mutually agreed.
91.       The adequacy of Pro-Export's on-lending interest rates (in the
light of movements in comparable international market and domestic rates) and
other terms and conditions of the facility and the performance of Pro-Export
in subsequent rotations would be reviewed with the Bank at least bi-annually,
to identify any required adjustments (Section 2.03a of the draft Project
Agreemeat). In the course of these consultations, but within three years
from rhe date of loan singature, when it is agreed that the Government can
maintain Pro-Export with its own resources, the allocation for Pro-Export
under the loan would be transferred to the support of rural investment
credit, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and similar to
those of Pro-Invest (Sections 3.02(iv) of the draft Loan Agreement and 2.03a
of the draft Project Agreement).
Studies and Technical Assistance Component
92.       The Brazilian Government with the assistance of the Bank has
initiated a imlti-phase work program to review and strengthen agricultural
policies and planning (paras 62-63).  The first part of this work program, to
be completed in November 1983, is focusing on the urgent macro-economic
issues of credit, pricing and trade policies. Part C of the project,
representing US$2,240,000 of the proceeds of the loan, would finance up to
100% of the costs of studies, technical assistance and foreign and local
consultancies for the second phase of this work program, covering a period of
up to 18 months. This phase of the program would seek to develop a longer
term planning and policy framework for the agricultural sector, to strengthen
policy making and planning capacity, to review certain priority sub-sector
issues related to future investments and to support longer-term investment
planning for the sector.



- 31 -
93.       Management.  Part C of the project would be managed by the
Secretariat of Planning of the Presidency (SEPLAN-PR). SEPLAN is now
managing Phase I of the joint Policy Review which has been progressing quite
satisfactorily. SEPLAN would create a working group and name an overall
coordinator for the work, in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.01d of the
draft Loan Agreement). Terms of reference for all activities under this
component would be reviewed and approved by the Bank prior to their
undertaking. The Government would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity
for reviewing and commenting on the conclusions and recommendations of these
studies and exchange views with the Bank on its plans for implementing study
conclusions and recommendations (Section 3.01e of the draft Loan Agreement).
94.         This component would also include a substantial institution-
building program for agricultural sector institutions, in the form of
technical assistance (including consultants' fees, travel, training and
support services) to both reinforce policy formulation, planning, management
and implementation capacity in the sector and to improve essential public
agricultural services.
95.         This component would be organized as a series of quarterly
agricultural policy and planning consultations, to be managed by SEPLAN and
to which the timetable for review of study findings and milestone reports
would be linked. Study outputs or progress reports are expeeted to be
scheduled in three, six and twelve-month phases. As initial findings are
examined, subsequent studies and issues and technical assistance needs will
be defined and agreed. In this manner, by October 31, 1984, terms of
reference for all the activities to be financed out of this component are
expected to have been defined (Section 3.01f of the draft Loan Agreement).
96.       The estimated cost of this program of studies is estimated at US$2
million, and is expected to require 180 staff-months of consultant services
and technical assistance and the cost of local transportation, technicians
and some other minor items. The average staff-month cost (including
individual's fees, international travel and local allowances) is US$8,250;
the average local manmonth cost is US$3,500 and the average foreign staff-
month cost is US$13,000. The foreign input would provide for iaternational
experts in such areas as agricultural planning and modeling, and commodity
market management as well as various sub-sector specialities.
97.       The loan allocation for the policy review program is based on the
preliminary estimates of the costs of undertaking a series of major sector
studies, which would include the following subjects:
(a) formulation of a general model for the agricultural sector in
Brazil;
(b) price stabilization policies;
(c) agricultural planning and development strategy for the medium term;
(d)  coordination of agricultural policy formulation, policy management,
planning and related institutional issues;



- 32 -
(e) integration of regional and national sector development strategies
and policies;
(f) expansion of the agricultural frontier;
(g) marketing of agricultural products;
(h) agricultural technology and factor use;
(i) integration of production and resource conservation policies; and
(j) development of an agricultural data base.
Detailed budgeted proposals, representing approximately US$750,000, have been
presented for these studies and are being reviewed. Approximately US$1.3
million remains to finance further studies and technical assistance, to be
agreed in the course of the project.
98.       The Government would be authorized to contract with the Research
Institute (INPES) of SEPLAN and the Agricultural Research Enterprise
(EMBRAPA) of the Ministry of Agriculture to conduct specific studies or
perform specific services (i.e., administrative or support services, data
processing) for a fee under this component. Both of these institutions are
budgetarily autonomous (124BKAPA has already been the borrower for two Bank
loans) and have a history of undertaking contract research. Moreover, they
have the most suitable staff for several of the proposed studies (e.g.,
formulation of general model, development of agricultural data base,
integration of production and conservation policies). Utilizing and
enhancing the expertise of these institutions in these areas would help to
strengthen overall agricultural policy-making and planning. Other similar
institutions which strictly meet these standards may also be considered for
specific studies to be financed under the component, after consultation with
the Bank.
99.       About US$200,000 of the proceeds of this component would support
the creation of an agricultural section under the National Economic Research
Program (PNPE), to finance economic research projects relating to
agricultural policy. The PNPE is the major source of funding for advanced
academic research work in economics in Brazil. Although the program is
administered by INPES, selection of research projects is made by a panel of
Brazil's most respected university economists and carries a great deal of
prestige and recognition. It is expected that this research program would
stimulate a substantial broadening of interest in the sector among Brazil's
professional economists and promising students. It is estimated that this
allocation could support five awards a year, at an average cost of
US$15-20,000 equivalent. PNPE funds would supplement and complement Bank
funds where necessary and could maintain this support after Bank financing
ceases. PNPE currently supports twelve projects per year in its overall
competition covering all fields of economics. The administration of this
sub-program would follow current arrangements for PNPE awards, which are
acceptable.



- 33 -
Project Keporting, Audit, Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
100.      Reporting.  The Central Bank would submit to the Bank quarterly
reports for the first 12 months, and semi-annual reports thereafter, on the
utilization of funds in both Parts A and B or the project by the
participating banks and subloan beneficiaries, and the status of respective
subloan principal and interest payments. Progress reviews under Part C of
the project would be conducted quarterly with SEPLAN (Section 2.02 of the
draft Project Agreement and Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
101.      Auditing.  The Central Bank would cause the project account and the
accounts of the funds established in Parts A and B of the project to be
audited annually by an independent auditor of the National Monetary Council
and would, promptly after the audit and not later than four months after the
close of its fiscal year, transmit to the Bank certified copies of the
accounts, together with a certified copy of the auditors' report, including a
description of the audit procedures. The participating banks would have
their accounts audited by independent professional auditors. Copies of the
annual accounts of the participating banks, together with the auditors'
opinion, would be submitted to the Central Bank, within six months after the
end of each financial year. The independent auditors engaged by
participating banks would, during the course of their annual audits, carry
out selected checks of the implementation of internal controls over project
transactions. The checks would specifically include, in the case of
participating banks, the preparation of statements of expenditure supporting
disbursement requests.
102.      Procurement.  Considering that rural investment credit would be
disbursed mainly in small, disparate and dispersed subloans, that local trade
channels are relatively competitive and that most major foreign manufacturers
are represented in Brazil, procurement under Part A of the project would be
in accordance with standard practice for agricultural credit loans and would
follow normal local commercial practice. Three quotations would be sought in
purchase of equipment generally. In those cases, expected to be few, in
which loans for equipment exceed US$400,000, agreement with the Bank on
procurement arrangements would be required. Procurement arrangements are not
a relevant concern for Part B of the loans as loan resources are intended to
finance export working capital operations, which would not involve
procurement of new goods and services with the proceeds of the loan.
Consultant recruitment for the agricultural policy reviews under Part C of
the project would be in accordance with standard Bank Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants of August 1981.
103.      Disbursements.  The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed as
follows: (a) one-third of the Central Bank's disbursements for Pro-Invest
(30% of disbursements made before loan signature and 35% of disbursements
made after loan signature); (b) 100% of the disbursements made by
Pro-Export, but totaling no more than 35Z of the eligible credits made by
participating banks individually; (c) 100% of the cost of consultants and
contract researchers, including fees, salaries, travel, services and
equipment for agreed studies and technical assistance. Full documentation to
evidence eligible expenditures would be required for Bank disbursements under



- 34 -
Part C. All other disbusements would be made against statements of
expenditure. The statements of expenditure submitted by the Central Bank to
the Bank, and by the participating banks to the Central Bank, along with the
internal controls and procedures involved in their preparation, would be
covered by project auditing arrangements. Supporting documentation would be
retained by the banks and would be available for review by Bank supervision
missions (Section 2.01 of draft Loan Agreement).
104.      Based on estimated rural investment financing requirements for
1983, and the scarcity of alternative sources of funds, it is expected that
most of Pro-Invest reiources (Part A) would be disbursed within a period of
twelve months after loan effectiveness (expected in the first quarter of
FY84). Resources for Part B of the loan would be disbursed within 45 days of
effectiveness.  Resources under Part C of the loan are expected to be
disbursed within 24 months of effectiveness. Up to US$30 million of the
proceeds of the loan may be disbursed retroactively to reimburse Pro-Invest
subloans (para 69).
105.      In order to reduce the interval during which the Central Bank
finances the Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, t..e
Government may request the Bank to make advance payments into two Special
Accounts in the Central Bank, a Pro-Export account and a conventional Special
Account for Parts A and C of the project. The initial deposits to these
accounts would be US$90 million and US$30 million, respectively. The Central
Bank would be entitled to make withdrawals from these accounts at the
exchange rate applicable on the day it disbursed its funds (Schedule of the
draft Loan Agreement). This large amount of initial deposit into Pro-Export
is necessitated by the speed with which the export facility is expected to be
disbursed. The Bank would replenish these accounts on the basis of
withdrawal applications forwarded by the Central Bank. Shortly before Board
Presentation, disbursement arrangements and documentation would be reviewed
on site by appropriate Bank staff.
106.      Annex VIII provides the estimated schedule of loan disbursements.
Since a majority of loan funds would be disbursed for short-term working
capital financing for exporters, and a substantial amount of rural credit is
expected to be disbursed retroactively, the ".t.mates of disbursement periods
used as a basis for tbe disbursement projection in Annex VIII differs
considerably from th, Bank's standard agricultural c;edit disbursement
profile.
Project Benefits and Riske
107.      The major benefit of the project is to provide immediate support to
Brazil in undertaking critical policy reforms during a very difficult
period. The preparation of this project has initiated a dialogue on the
entire range of agricultural policy issues which should have a lasting impact
on sectoral development and efficiency.
108.      The annual fiscal savings achieved by the agreed phasing-out of
agricultural credit subsidies are approximately US$2.9 billion equivalent in
the first year of the three-year phasing-out program and US$4.1 billion by
the third year. In addition to this major macro-economic benefit, the



- 35 -
expectation that rural credit will carry positive real interest rates is
already intensifying concern for agricultural efficiency and productivity at
all levels of the sector.
109.      The project itself would support about US$360 million in productive
agricultural investments, and an annual expansion of agricultural exports in
excess of US$600 million. The project should have a lasting impact on the
local financial market for agricultural exports, inducing an expansion of
these services equal to several times Pro-Export's allocation in this loan,
thrcagh the creation of a permanent rediscount fund for this purpose.
110.      The project thus yields significant direct productive benefits
while contributing to improving the long-term policy environment for
agricultural development in Brazil.
Risks
111.      The main project risk is that political pressure and accelerating
recession could undermine the commitment to phase-out agricultural credit
subsidies. The announced rates might be changed, or the monetary correction
index might be manipulated, either to restrain inflation or to hold down
interest rates. The Bank would quickly become aware of either action through
its various operations and continuing policy and economic discussions with
the Government. The monetary correction index would be monitored under the
project to ensure it adjusts in close relation to actual inflation (para
59). Moreover, the Government is anxious to constrain the fiscal cost of the
credit subsidies which, it is widely realized, cannot possibly continue at
anywhere near the present scale. Past at.empts to manipulate the monetary
correction index have proven to be counterproductive, undermining confidence
in the financial markets and increasing nominal interest rates.  Thus, the
probability of actions which would undermine the subsidy reductions in a
significant manner is small.
112.      There is risk that the investment credit component will disburse
more slowly than expected if the recession worsens. Moreover, the
introduction of higher and variable interest rates for rural credit
is expected to discourage credit demand as farmers adjust to the new system.
However, Pro-Inves... is still expected to disburse within the time horizon
allowed, as these resources are really quita limited in comparison with the
scale of Brazil's agricultural sector, and similar investment credit
resources have not been available for nearly three years to complete and
*         maintain prior investment commitments or to implement essential productivity
improvements. There is a small probability of any delay in disbursement of
the export financing component because such resources are also scarce and
represent a relatively small share of the overall market for these funds.
113.      The Government is, however, deeply concerned with the risk that
this sudden increase in int.-rest rates will lead to a dramatic decline in
production and an increase in food prices, undermining its efforts to
constrain inflation and increase exports. Concern ror this risk was the
impetus for the urgent study, being undertsken with Bank participation (para
63), to formulate alternative, more efficient, production incentives through
pricing and trade policies. Results of this study are expected to be in
place by early 1984. Within this context, overall project risks are
considered manageable and limited.



- 36 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
114.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Cent3.l Bank and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Arttcle III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the draft Resolution approving the proposed
loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
115.      I am satisf'ed that the proposed loan would comply with--the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
116.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
September 15, 1983
Wanhington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Pave 1 of 5
SOA  - soCta ICATO   DTA sr eT
DRAM                               RlEPtMIE CDPS (NEICUED A1ERACE) l.
!DST                    CPOSr RECENT ESTAYR) lb   -
16(           RECER 7         L   A n E INCOE          MDDLE INGIE
L960=      1970   EtA           LAT_ A C a CAI               ELROPE
AM  COA  EQ. no
TOTIL                           3512.0     3512.0     8512.0
AERICULTUMI.                    16ZL.3     t961.2     2209.5
cp mm cAnTm, cuSs)                  330.0      610.0     2220.;           2083.2                  2453.6
-mm     usosm PM  cair
(COURAMS OF COA.L EpUrVALEN)     385.0      577.0     1102.0           Wo7.6                   1580.3
OPU.ATID AM 118 S1TISTICS
POPULATION.lIDIEAR CrOUSAS)  7Z59.0    95867.0   120507.0                  .
D136 POPMArION C OF TO.)          46.1       55.9       6Z.2             65.9                    47.*
POPULATION PROJECrWONS
POPULATON It YEAR 2000 0i.)                          176.7
STATIONAR  POPULATION (MILL)                         29e.0
YEAR SmTTONR  POP. REAED,                            2110
POPULATION DEmrIY
PER SQ. It_                      8.5       11.3       13.9             35.6                    82-0
PER SQ. DI. ACRE. LAID          ".8        43.6       53.6             93z                    157.2
POPULATION ACF. S  CIURE CZ)
0-14 IRS                       43.6       42.7       *1.1             40.1                    31.9
15-64 mm5                       53.3       54.2       35.4             53.8                    60.9
65 AND A0BOE                     Z.6        3.1        3.5              4.1                     7.2
POPULATIUN UROwN RIATE t )
TOil.                           3.1        2.5        2.1              2.3                     1.6
URBA!                            5.5        4.7        3.9              3.7                     3.4
CRUDE FIRTg RATE (PER TII)        *2.7       35.0       30.5             3L.5                    25.0
CRUDE DEATR RATE (MM TO0)         12.9       10.3        3.2              8.1                     9.1
CROSS REPRIDWCTIOf RATE            3.0        2.&        1.9              2.0                     1.7
FALT PLANNIN
ACCEPTORS. Al3tAL 1T303)         .        111.0     203.6/c
5    (- CF YRR     M)             . 
PM AM EDUTE
INDEX OF FD0D PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     89.0      102.0      128.0            113.0                   10.4
PEt CAPITA SUPLY OF
CALORIFS CZ OF REQiUIROMD S)   106.0      106.0      109.0            111.3                   129.6
ROMINS (GM15 PER DAT)           64.0       62.0       61.0             67.9                    92.3
OF UHICII ASDLUL AND PULSE     35.0       34.0       36.0/d           34.1                    34.6
CHLOD (AC   t-4) DEATH RATE       19.4       12.5        6.9              5.3                    10.4
IIIULTR
LIFT EXPECT. AT *IRT(A            54.7       58.9       63.6             66.6                    67.2
ISFAFT PART. RATZ (PM 100)       118.2       93.6       75.6             62.6                    71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE TAIME (CPOP)
TOTAL                             .        550        77.1/.           66.8
UMAX                              ..       78.0        L7              7.s
RoURL                             ..       28.0       56.37r           44.3
ACCSS TO EXCRE A DISPOSAL
( OF POPULATION1)
TOTAL                             .        58.0      6".8/             54.6
UR                                ..       85.0       83.77T           69.8
RURAL                                      24.0       31. 7            29.8
POPULATION PER PHISICLA         6270.0     2130.0     1700.Dj'         1776.0                  1094.8
POP. PER URSDNG PERSON          2810.0     1120.0      sz0d7           1012.2                   762. 5
PUP. PER HOSPITAL 8CD
TOTAL                          310.0      270.0      Z50.0a.          477.0                   334.0
013.11                         260.0      320.0         ..            667.5                   Z16.0
RERAL                             ..         ..         ..           1921.6
AD!ISSIONS PER ROSPITAL ZD          ..       18.4         ..             27.2                    20.0
RISIN
AVERACF SIZE OF HOUSEHILD
TOTAL                            5.1        4.3        4.9/_
URBAN ".                                    4.6        4.77
RURAL                             ..        5.2        5.37r
AVERAC NO. OF PERSONSIROUq
TOAL                                         1.1
URANM                             ..        1.0
RURIL                              .        1.2
ACCESS TO EECT. (: OF DELINGS)
TTL                             38.7       47.6       67.4
URBAN                             ..       75.6       83.5
RUMAL                             ._        8.4       20.6



-38 -                                             ANNEX I
Paope 2 of 5
tdRAZIL                - SoCIAL L2OICATWS DATA SJAEE
BIL1ZUMIL                           .1TEkC LIDun (SiEICHrED AVEkAES]) la
ISO.                     OMUST l.Tccc  ESTUIATE) /b
/ ~    ~~          /b     LATII lb  ISCESIL         MIDDLE IllUmE
190b       1970- EST.rIATE-    u. A11C    c CIS                EROPE
ADJrsrTe) CRSOWIT RATIOS
PSL'MAY:  TOTAL                   95.0       84.0        93.01g           105.0                    102z2
97.g       84.U        93.Ofg          l0&.3                     107.2
kttA:LE                93. U        4.0       913.             103.6                     97.9
SEWONDAI(: WTAL                   1 .0       26.0        3Z.O/g,h         4O.1                      56.5
MALE                   11.0        26.0       29.ofg.b          3e.6                     63.4
FE!:^c                 l1O.u      27.0        33.da             &t.2                     .9.9
VOCATIOCAL (. Of SECtOlA;Y)         18.6       16.7        59.21Jgh         34.0                      22.4
PUPI:-EACHEA iaTIO
rALnmY                            33.0       28.0        26.0             30.7                      24.7
SECUSOARY                         13.u       13.0        14.0/h           Lb.7                      22.1
ADULT LITERACY  ATE (2)             61.0       ob.2        76.0             79.5                      6S.7
PASSENCER CARSIT800SASD POP          7.6       16.6        50.1             &5.6                      52.9
u,%IO gECEIVEgSImOUSAJ o POP        65.4      10.4        169.3            228.2                     165.5
TV RECEIVERSTHUSASD MoP             16.5       64.3       122.7            105.3                     124.2
SEUSPaPCi (-oAILY  ESES-L
INTERESr) CIRCOLATIOS
PER THDUSASD POPULATION            39.1       35.6        44.6/h           6&.1                      96.3
CIXE!L ANSCAL ATTESDANCE/CAPITA     4.4         2._I        1_./h            2.9                       2.9
tn   POC
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)        23326.0    30411.0    35254.0
FMZH  :  ERcENT)                  17-2       20.1        28.5             24.8                     34.5
ASRICULTLRE (PERCENT)             51.9       45.6        Z9.9              31.3                     40.7
LSOUSM  (PERCENT)                 14.1       18.3        24.4             Z3.9                     23.4
PARrTICIPAIOS RATE (PERCLST)
TOTAL                             32.1       31.7        Z9.3             31.3                      4Z.0
1ALE                              5Z.7       50.3        50.9             49.5                      55.Z
FEHALE                            11.2       1Z.8        14.1              14.3                     29.1
ECUWOM1C UEPCUIDCY mArIO             1.4        1.4         1.5              1.4                      0.9
iNs   Esum
PEaCO.r OF PRIVAIE IiCUHE
RECEITEO 8Y
HIGdEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..          ..
tlLGdEVT 20& UF WDUSENOLOS       n.0         63.5        6Z.0.
LIOE   202 OF OLDEOLDS             3.8        3.Z         2.87
L06iST 402 Of SOUSEHOLDS          lO.o        9.0        -9.4.-
PlWmE  TRE  CAT  S-
ESIMATED ARSOLUTE POVERTf IhCUE
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBA.                               _          _..        _..            289e8
RURAL                              __          .        150.0/c           184.5
ESTMATED RELATIVE POVERTY LSCE
LEVEL (CUSS PEA C91T.1)
URBAN                              ..          ..       465.0/d          519.8
RLURAL                               '         ''       332.od7          372.1                     4V9.0
ESTI.nTdD POP. BELOW ABSOLLTE
POVER(TY ICOME LeL. (7) 1
URA1                                ..         ....
RURAL                               ..         ..
NOT AVAILA:LE
.ROT APPLICABLE
N O T ES
/a The group averages for each indicator are populatiow-weighted arithuetic mans. Coverage of coustris ang the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise ooted. -Datm for 1960 refer to  ny year between 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970  between 1969 and
1971 and data for -most Recent Esusate- betseen 1979 and 1981.
Ic  1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; If 1974: Ij Beginning 1973 prlary and secodary education cover age groups 7-14 and 1517
insrej,of 7-10adnd 11-Irin earlier years; therefore cost recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data;
/h 1978.
May 1983



- 39 -                                                                          ANINEX I
Pag,e 3 of 5
wuarna~ at tc:af. IDtbices
bat.: ttt.aca  t.daa   t.dta   t.  "ac.  i-t!  t adadib  aataabattcta   a    td aba,ftshoE   aa   .  ata   tatthw  ayac -h tt.aataLi
eaptiti  baaac   a!  't  tcka'  tataafladdatatfaa   ctaetapa -ta  by  i tarata  c- Itart.,   IIncttactt   t                     That.l. dat   raaaataaa.aaa
daeri  ."tt  a   cctfd,  a  iat   a-ad.ta   taac.la    atat   atpdtita.aca   hah-a  cattta.
M'ac.dt   aaiaaaa.   i                       iactrh    att                ha   argaar.ct  aaa   i   apP                       iaa       - a?   n  ititta  at   it b          afaa tatLr ca
Ia  c  ta  paata  -at..   ac  aeta   cra.  a   a                                                                                                                             tI aLaatla'  ataa  aaitrt
ho.   Cd   cd   q4  dta                                                                     h  a   .at  appbaita    rattiaactapyatf tsptatpat  tatadlal
cta .ptta    I aciad-d    tattPtia   taalaicfhath d
h!ttd  Cltftftl  ttfZtT  -aata   ataat  'aattta   a  twera                     tdiac  tat-a'a  taatattatttd   y     piacI   Catbya  .dca
at.a.,aactt    ..It- cttltta~actrataaaca  ttl.-  acica            aacitat, a.,, .dat.,  tt l tth altar tapt -a  cpcta
ca  grhra    aaa.fta!acatac    a  tct.taacatca  acia:yaadaa  tata  raa    t  a.tci  aatttaa Pa  catattaTapac
ttt.:5t.allt-.   ata                                                  cah-a  haapaatal.-ta. aa  *tacpaigaaralhaptat. at -c1
aaataha  L-c    prara  ...ptata.     c  aadtaat             - acata    ane .
data.                                                                  fin  satttaia dfttaad a  tha  aat at~~~~LI---   Ma.1.   bI   . -    - -.)
that rcac:at tat t att.ah af  'tC I - tat t.. ..! attat t.. tatat ratatat tat;~~1
tlttara-t dat ttytaca 't ..t%a   crraa at attac   c.a,ocMLtfttp-t! data  a-at,at
a-a-a  C..:thaa   L.-a.at~  a,!ta    ahapt-at-  tta..fabaaaafallfbaaca  t--p h .abctdt- taa!  aptL,ca  rr
aattUh,a ttaa, ~aa                                               - Atataacdttt tatatat  at     at-pat tdlttaaia  ta   a-4 Itic   qptat
sh.cc.-a.a  a  tata ..t    .. ta l.atcc   fa-at'ta tt                                  latcet.-art
-  Th, t  cctt.a'a!  Ca   ftattartttt   rat,    At.at.d  arata ta tat..h-,                                 w        ft,I.-
d.   aaa 4-,  at   ccaCaC.   ataah-r.,fc  a   at,atc                                              raca.'at taaaa:   alftl      aca   aa.taecdftl
aa'aacarc'-  a   'ataatt  raaf.a.- I.   ha  aatlaar                               ttlt-a   a  *!  anatth   rtatplaalat-TtaatiGMu  ttpttt
;aaCaf'..a'. cc .t t-ac-.   a  .a  ca a  t 'ta~a-a>cada'.tacat   atacc  a~t.t-cat  aaatafcat;tatcti  laica.  abid_-tYsS   -I
a   t-aaa a. aar ~~aa  cd  ta  tt.  t titt-  a                       atractatadlttc   ta  dttapa.iiaaatb  a  ICtac    aaatta ;~ fAW    a
:ca-acaat  ca-I.       ~        ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        aaaatpttacttLb11   daaattt pda.-tatatitattc   aadi p ct
a ta.aa-  haaai   tatt-.a~            -ar  ..a-  .arf   ae  atc   t  la. haattita   ahat                  icp
ca.caa   act .da-  t.   fa.-.-t4.                                   att~afa!ta ac.aai  tticI   tat.cad t tcta  -  e Lat1 D-  aD-a.tcaat
a-a'.!                                                                      a-acttaraafaacatliaa   ccptat.  t  epyac  ptaay ltaa-tca



~~~ ll
Pagre 6 ot I
ErnloltlC INDICATr3S
r-.,.,l a  ~*       34   hIm..o   93
t v1sl 1 |.o    lvol     nS  ( 1911 , 1
lndtrat,t                                    Awsont                        Axerage Mona I Increa"  (2)                     Share of CGIP  t lMarket Price. IS)
IYtillon IUSS Cerrent:                  I-: Com-tsnt 1970 PrtiesI                             (at c.rrent Pricem)
192 D/                19S5-70    1970-7Z    '975-rn        19NI-Nb              1970       1973        39e2 h/
Sat tonal Account.
Iroo.  s.-citi  'rt-act 'a                            2119.032                  7.7        IQ."          n.q         2.0             1900.       3'VI.0       1.81.0
.3531]                  1.9         5.7          4.1         4.5              l*t.2       30.9         14.3
I ~.ln rrytF7.391                                                             9.2        11.6         7..          .'IN             35.         317.2       11A.
S.-,.' .-c-    _                                    333.1l16                  q.-)       30.7         6.           4.1              54.11       51.9        53.9
21i.94u                  ;.;          9.8 0       5           1.1              77.o3       IF.S         74.7
-r ._. I lW.st5t                                       oIu.755                 9.;         143.r        5.2         3.'              22.7        21.1         21.0
-  .to.- *  sf                             22.19.1                  9.2        11.2          7.3         5.5               6.7         7.5         7.7
p1-t .             ..d ; Fs                            26.13                  16.5        7.2         2.q          : 4.4             7.2        11.4 *.;
Ir.  -O- trt a.   In                                 SN. 17                   7.9        12.9          r.                           22.2        23.t        2tl.2
Aounot                    5yra zrnnn-l Increasr (';                  CaooV-ltion of  erchandl,c Trade (13
('UIlioan USS Current)             l-t Constant 1970 Prieer)                          (at CIrrenc Price)
1982                  1970-75          1975-311     L981-56                    973U        19S5         |90U
M-rchandi-c Trade
'(crchaodloc r<;     .                                231.36                 1. 1              7.7             2.N                    1)0.*0       3120.0       1330.0
Prinrs ;!                                            8.91                  H.3              1.3              0..                     76.7         62.7        34.3
1.n..f..ctur.,.. d/                                3In.R3                23.2              15.2              5.                    22-S          36. 8        7.1
'r-h-ndi-. Ip.P.rt.                                    19.397                14.f            -3.3               1.2                   100.         100.13       100.0
3s.ud (c-r1_alo                                      I.0UW                 -6.7           13.7                3.9                     4.S.         3.0         6.9
Petr',iL                                            10. 126                7.6              4.3            -11.0                     11.2         2S.'        53.1
4achl,ery  -d F.Ulp-nt If                            3.272                 15.2            -7.5              2.0                     36..         32.2        38.2
Other                                                Y.999                 2  .6           -I.9 g.3                                  61I          39.6        25.7
1975           1976            3977            3978           1979            1950              1931            192
Prices and rerms of Trade
CG   Deflator (1970 - 100)                    305.1          444.1           632.7          892.5         1.39.4         2.724.6          5.696.8         11 .303.8
ExrFhnge RAre (CrS/1SS)                         a.3           in.6            1f.1            18.1           26.9            52.7            93.1            180.0
Export Prl-_ Index ( 1970 - 3no0              176.)          192.0           226.0          228.n           266.0           29n.0            25Z             220.0
loport Pric. Inde. (1970 - 1002              262.0           25S.0          256.0           317.0          329.0           433.n            476              522.0
Tro  af Trade Lode. t IW70 - 301)              72.U           75.J            79.0           72.0            69.0            67.0             53              C2.0
As   of CDP
CAt Crr"nx Cr-elr  Primes)
1970            1975              1979             19D HOl        1981 _k/  29 jit
Public Fln-.ce (Central Cowernxent)
C -urret R-.em.                                                                      3I.6i           19.8               MR0.8            2n.1          311.9      21.2
'urrent Expenditure                                                                  1:.4            33.8              17.6              39.5          20.2      25.Z
Surpl.. I-) or deficit I-)                                                            2.2             ;.0               3.2               0.3          -1.4       -4.2
CaptIa  Eq.endltore                                                                  2.6              3.8               3.7               6.1            3.5       3.6
FPiasclop (Net)                                                                     0U.              -0.2               0.1               3.9            4.9       7.6
1965-70            1970-75            1975-79               19N1-16
Other Ildicatmor
CN? Crorth RAte (3)                                                                  7.7               30.7                5.8                   2.1
GNP per CapIta Crowth Rate (:)                                                       4.6                7.7                3.0                  -0.5
En-rgy Consuoption Cro-th Rate (:)                                                   7.2                7.3                6.5                   -
IOR f/                                                                             2.9                3.0                 3.9                   3.2
..Iarginsl SaliC-s Rate f/                                                         20.5               25.7               22.7                   24.0
Ip..rt Ele-;cicty  f/                                                              Z.2                1.6                0.3                  -0.6
a.'   At market priec-: co-poneoto *re  -et do-tlc products e-pressed at factor cost *nd  111 not  dd due to exclu-ion of depreclAtion sad Indirect
t.aes 1e-s  sobtidIes.
bl   EstimAte.
c7   Includes:  coffee (bean, .od *oluble.)  othr agrticult.re sod minerals
dl   Includes:  mnufctur-d  nd seol-proce-sed
WI   Includes:  transportstion   atrials
f7   the 1981-86 projectIons are srZr arIthtIIc rea  of the six-year
l   1980 and 1981 Include gn-er-nt expenditures effettd through the nonetary budgec and *ooe minor ronernent funds. as ueLl as transfers to the
federal -otr-prl-
Aogu4t 3. 1983
Source: Corsuntura Economici  FJV IanLo Central do lr-cil. Rra-ll Standard Sodel (Uorld Bank)



(SlIt.. 0  a=1s_L t o.rt.  LpteL AM.7 1 I
r .- c<Kw l IIn Iul)
r~ r Capit.:  2=*2.51  33w020
SCOVAL                                                                    PSa3ECPb if
'N7'        1914        391         3955        I9z9        2020        302             lea         *1                                  3024co 
t..ar  rtaal  .4 *-*   -.9                                 -4.702        .0E        4.037       4.U6       -10.09      -12.544     -11.173         -3."9        -1.19      -1.11r     .4020    -.197
L,3-4tt at e~~~~~~                     02.6703    (10.3213    112~~~~~~~U.3201     22.49  (2'I4   (20.1322    (31.2032         20.37       23.020      24,070      29.003     11.000
a_0..,. -f .~.                                            (-11.21nl  1-32.3613   (-32.0233   (-33.8033   1-5.0242   (-22.9313   (-23,020)         (-3,1l40)   (-211.33)  3-5 .0003   (-30.000   .-24.0013
.t ,e,t...    _                                            -1. 33      -2.359      -2.111      -1.213      -4.521      -b.UI       -9.149         -11.103     -3, II9    -21,07       -30.714    -30.591
3..! APirk _-  Iatere.t v w'~ta1 1.                     (-3.4w3l   (-1.3la3    1-2.1031    (-2.          I 1(11513    (1-6.33    (-931-9         (20.5003    (II.0002    (9o.0001     (,.0W3    (9.10
-2.420      -3.         -3.174      -1.80$      -2.13       -1.120      -1.317          -2.444      -2.000      -2.1e7      -2.211     -2.fl
_t n _t.r.                                                       2           I          -           73           1 3. 3a 2"            S               291         29I        2A7          lot        391
,.aondt act...! 4a e I_o_Zeo-.                                          -tOl07        e.037     -4.021     -10.0a2     -12.14      -19.971         -14.500      -7.000      -1.000      -3.532    -.otu
pti.ai.ia.ta.t 15                       392         1!9~~~~~~~~~~~~W  420  2,03         .49.       .2,123.     1.14            I.542       2.763       2,.23       2.206      2..
eSat I.s.o .    n. _n4                                         4.5*         *10 7J.12  1          30            S 1.201    3 ? 41.0    1.111  at       0.492       1.04        6030        4,09b      4.433
2._ ,adi tla.,a  .a...re                                      2911)     13,214I'    a'su 'a    erX ' ^2'1.137     193               (4.3143         (4.3243    (2.21        (3,01    (3.0233    (1,143
*ian ela 'tatIt.                                          (4.0273     (1.0t13    (5,2243    I21.1242   C30.21          N 20.432.13  (11.3132     (314        (1 0o.0003   (32.3103    (10.2    (23.2M0
,s z                                     _J.s:l     1-2.1bX     f-3*"X       -'."    ''.""           r.bo.n    1-;)   s         1_7.1110)   C-7.44,10   1-9 21ba    -  .1-  e
.~~~~r32aatiae                             2~~~~~~~~~~~~-2.1121    (-2.43b2   (-1.41313    2-.46 -6.4133  64313(-.13                 -190       (1403        -.3) (3033(-2.02143                 
atlia_ l.a.. at.at 1_..t                                     -100        -249        -.24r        -312        -420         426        -re0          -12.0s      -1.144      -' 1.       -13        -I2.-
u,_, plt.2s.e. .s                                                215         914...    -3.12-        411         6S        4.061       1.143.0         1.342       2.297          -            -          -
Lata*. L '-tan..    l.aa..3 It                                    91-           _se0 -1.132  -610   -.242        3.213       1.321 2        1            4.003      -.900a      -I.10    -x 0           - 0aa
Iat..nai!a.aI *,..r.,  Ia                                       *.0 1       4.14.4       1.21I     21.99         5.40        4.313       7.10            3.O0      4.,10        4.4         4,90       7,100
_on., aa  ..t_as .3 twD rt*  Ic                                    .4 *           .1         1.2        20,3         4.4         1.4         4.1             1,          3.5 1       4           4          1.4
3911        3147       1571         195         3019        1020        3023            102
T-i-ta3dl   w.,al.  a  dIsSaOd2320                                        3.-01      34.402      44.434       513.36     I54,54       53.480  1       4.411  LI
rIli aSd  =hId  r a te                                      13704       314         21 .19       0 394      1S 474      o1.24            -  -           e
Le, 11I '-                                                 3.9         *.41       4,717        1.402       1559         .461-
Ial                                                    1(1.1931     31.2173    21,4213     (2.0023      (3,071)     (2.09-
.WI                                                    (2.544       (1,2343     (1.3043     1,1951      (4,623      (4.34 -O
Itisat star,.* 9,741                                                      F  1293  24,7       23,30 1      915 3ss     1.84            -               -
...               O_ 9."92                                              12.33I      S1.001      "I.112      31,54       2.0              - 
.,AL,b.t.1t debt Crblic -173                                   15191
1.tsl. 81 ,lr.8...... dISrat eN   L? 1.s....                 4,021        ,4          ,2        3,4         23.1        20,23        '-         l       i -. J
y.it*d ai.tri, sartaa                                   1,184       4.922       1,42a3,3                  'as31    WAS9             -
.4131.1 ap.r C_d..t                                          43         401         2I"          490        43           461             
11                                                                      173        20           271         302         143
(tbat 1.IttIat9tal                                                      111 3        92        311          209 12                    _               _
flis-.   2. 2.991                                                    14,23        4*.62       9,224       0.1w        1.092
flt-e na-rtat                                               1.1%        3.239       1,52       5,2S5        2.S7        1.22            -               -
7.t.1 debt  -I-tt  pa.t--                                    4,091       4.1.22       1,442      41    2.2     24I 1     23,380      23.314          37.990
L.-.l I._t                                                 S1.4111    (314233     (3313       (2        ,1 3 15.31 4123  1            -               -
.:..    apn. _       -1 WS3S                                        0231        42.3        52.         "*          80.0        4-.0            a 51.0
ftyr.tZ a.1  GO                                                   2.9        2.4          1.0         3.7         .1         4*.         -
*r.,_w iat.t.   *.t,a_ the 0.411t 4.3. (13 15                      4.1 /at                 0.1          9.9        13,2        12.3         -
obmatnl a._,,..                                                   7,7        7.9         :.0          7,1         0.1         *.7         -
Ap9    anO    f -v  .8r.-d l.-.                           9,30        23.         200S0.                   1.-1       103 -3
_ =tclal *ete                                                    35.4        34.1        3.1          .1         16.0        33.          -a
FrI.... acorn                                                     7.0         9.1        0.1          9.1        1.2         9.1         -
1Lou 05415.                                                      47           ,          4.1          1,4         3,4         3J          -
_  X    s         zt1 asw_ das_r_t.-I   *-                                     2.S         3.Z         S.6         Z.,         3- 
308 deblt a.rKf=ct l   .4 _-r-t.e CI)                             2.1         1.2         1.1         2.7         3.2         2.1  
Ma M    tat-al debt t.t.t53
bt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a cr0.1SatS,302 
na.rs..ran.r. .7  d.4  ..,itsotv
Mat.rtt_     4a. d  4t41. 10 r 4                                                        11
14          - r,1. a, t.   -I        *. I.d.- pLSt  I__
1_  t.clSl.gd 4.31T .al.aala  aAlaaO.1  _o    ttat a1 ' -(2    .
1 1.1.i.  at- aM 4.I-r .looIat adp.tJ
1.  CaSa aly
If  Saal. ,....l.
-    Ij   461 . db .dl
I! Pte13.1srr
baI il ae  srd    el101 X.
'6b-r  20. 3021
0.ro    _oo   at,.? _ arcs:    rttal EISaI Sat. (31): 79-52 (061 0Id '  1



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERAIIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STAIEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan #   Year            Borrower                   Purpose        Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Fifty-four loans fully disbursed                                     i;,O.1
923     1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power                  125.0         1.2
Itumbiara
1008     1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do            Power                   81.0        12.4
Sao Francisco - CHESF
1067     1974  Brazil                            Education               21.2         1.1
1075     1975  Brazil                            Roads                  110.0         9.4
1151     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                  95.0         5.5
1152     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                  60.0        15.3
1153     1975  Brazil                            Agriculture             23.0         0.3
1171     1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways                75.0         6.5
1195     1976  Brazil                            Rural Development       12.0         5.4
1207     1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads            55.0        18.9
1249     1976  Brazil                            Agriculture             40.0         0.3
1300     1976  ELETROBRAS                        Power                   50.0         0.2
1302     1976  Brazil                            Nutrition               19.0         0.2
1317     1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry           83.0        42.5
1343     1977  ELETROSU&                         Power                   82.0        11.8
1362     1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development       42.0         6.2
1406     1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer              52.0         1.7
1411     1977  Fer_ilizantes Vale do Rio         Fertilizer              55.0         1.6
Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
1452     1977  Brazil                            Education               32.0        19.8
1488     1977  Brazil                            Rural Development       17.0        10.8
1525     1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sewerage               110.0        62.3
1537     1978  Brazil                            Rural Development       24.0        18.3
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                        Power                  130.0        40.5
1557     1978  Brazil                            Roads                  114.0        79.1
1562     1978  ODPESUL                           Petrochemicals          85.0         4.9
1563     1978  Brazil                            Urban Transport         88.0        17.1
1568     1978  Brazil                            Agric. Extension       100.0        60.6
1589     1978  Brazil                            Rural Development       37.0        25.1
1654     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sites and Services      93.0        42.8
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water and Sewerage    100.0         58.7
1660     1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.             Altiinumn               78:8.        0.1
1714     1979  Brazil                            Rural Development       26.0        21.5
1720     1979  Brazil                            Urban Development       70.0        48.3
1721     1979  COPEL                             Power                  109.0        57.9
1728     1979  Brazil                            Rural Development       40.0        31.5
1729     1979  Brazil                            Irrigation              28.0        13.7
1730     1979  Brazil                            Roads                  110.0        77.9



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STAIEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                    Purpose      Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
1B22     1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control       58.0       57.4
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           130.0       82.8
1824     1980  CREE                             Power                  114.0      105.8
1839     1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport        159.0      153.0
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           139.0       84.9
1867     1980  Brazil                           Education               32.0       29.2
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development       63.0       58.6
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                  125.0      120.3
1924     1981  Brazil                           Rural Development       56.0       45.4
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                   54.0       50.0
1965     1981  EETU                             Urban Transport         90.0       82.4
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           180.0      142.4
1989     1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0       244.8
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             29.0       24.1
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             60.0       51.8
2060     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             67.0       54.6
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                  13.0       10.1
2062     1982  Brazil                           Highways               240.0      198.8
2116     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       23.9
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  182.7      180.0
2163     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       23.7
2170     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development      123.9      114.1
2177 /1  1982  Brazil                           Rural Development       42.7       42.7
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development        8.9        8.2
2196     1982  CVRD                             Iron Ore               304.5      280.3
2224 /1  1982  Brazil                           Feeder Roads           154.0      154.0
2225     1982  BNDES                            Development Banking   220.0       216.8
2249 A   1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply          302.3       302.3
Total                                                7,672.9 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 1,120.0
Total now outstanding                                6,552.9
Amount sold                              45.8
Of which has been repaid               45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                               6,552.9
Total undisbursed                                               3,773.8
/1 Not yet effective.
12 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



*AM 1
PAW 3 of 
I.  SlXlr F W  IFC IWNEST S Cm of Mardc 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                                                                                    bunt In InS iUtll
YS                                      0 b L L i    a r                             1%pte f Ibnsis                   3aw       Ilty       mtal
1957                Stave do haiti CLm. de ESlectrtcld.af                         firerrlmi  qaIIw                       2A         -       2J10
1951                Ollrakrat. S. A. elulme e Pape1                               iap -.d Rwer                           1.20      -        I3.0
Im                  D. L. R. Plstirs do trrll. S. A.                               hAtlLve Pat                           0.45      -        0.45
1958                Vflyu-Vrlrnd  do Dasil, S. A. - Idautrrln e Crdo              Ibwr VihIcles                          2.45      -        2.45
1959                Clusta Idioela de Clerno Part1ad, S. A.                                                              1.2D      -        1.11)
1959                CIsln  CelulLse. S. A.                                        tIp                                    4.OU      -        4.10
1966/19bB/1972      kom Villa, S. A.                                              Sted                                   803       1.93     903
19b6tl969          iPpl e Qilulose Catrines. S. A.                                tip _,!d Fper                          3.78      3.41     7.19
1967/1972           Ultrafertil. S. A. - IMatria e GDrco de Fertillantes          Fertilzers                             8.22      3.03    1.25
19b9                tetrequsdia hsao, S. A.                                        detndes                               5.5D      2.88      .38
1970                lbtloflneF. S. A. Ihdustrn e Cmrclo                           Penodukals                             5.50      2.88     8.3B
1971                Odtew,, S. A. hblatria e   trci                                _trrdwals                             4.60      1.44     6.04
1971                Rio Grntd - (lrgzutde dole do Rd                              tIp                                    4.9D       -       4.90
1972/1975/1981      aqsitdn de CIsc ltuadsul de NenC GC                                                                169.14      6.70  15J4
1973/197461977/1981   Owurlhs Sidenar,ca da Qwnlurn - (MUM4                       Stee                                  7697      11.22    88.19
3973                Capttal Ibar6rt lweynt FdR" -  RAP                            cqpits Naet Dweiqwst                   5400       -       5410
1973/19781/193      tqpsa de DEkemwolvlnto de Iaec s Me:rals -  U2aN. S. A.  bIUrel Kiai and Plnflid                    8503       8.74    93.74
1974                Industria Villares, S. A.                                     Elevaom  ad Dbsicrial. EquLd.mt        6.0       -        6.0
1974                Ftabr d de Thcldo Tar, S. A.                                  Txttle                                31OD       -       31.0W
1975/1979           Cqu.a Cbon tirlhstr5i  Ltd.                                   Crbo.n Blac                            6.18      1.19     7.37
1975                Odtsn taralste. S. A.                                        tPi      d Jl                          100m        -      10m3
1976                Satist Injstria - 1DI1 do Ibuste, S. A.                       Thetlal                                6.45      IDD      7.45
1976/198D           Tecnor S. A. - Tetil Cksrlem  do Nrdate                       Tmil                                  16.2D       -      16.2D
1977                as S. A. Prokat  NAlugkru                                     kmn ard Ma_ine CtiW                   2D 00       -      20.0D
1977                MLIasimo Rio do Home S. A.                                    MLng                                  1503        -      IS3D
1978               C/nal 5ldnagis S. A.                                           km ad Sted                             7400      310   1W.00
1979                Volm do Brasil tro1    e i*iculs, S. A.                       Itor Vedelas                          6003       5.27    65.27
198D                8trl  do Nwdeste S. A. - llall                                tlhdysle  trus                         2400       -       200
198D                le do ParE StA -    1anp   - Agriodtumh. cDktrla
e Cario de Oleap                                          pals-e1                               3.50       1.00    4.5
1980                ViUares Inbastris de BHe S. A. - YIIS6                        Irs ad Stel                            50         -       50
1990                P1' -   prida Indubsrlil do Ptllpropilen                       Ondcls ad ttrod        ls            15.00      203    17410
1980               DThstLra Carte S. A.                                          CainEs ad  _etrodais                    -        0.M      0.25
198)                So9e Azmna QiLwca e Minemrl S/A                               Fertlle                               16.00      4.00    2D.00
1980                Polid Peruqd.o                                                CaIs ad Peatdaile_ls                  4303       5J03    48C03
1981               BteLLIr                                                        Mxy ad CWitul Mark                     -         1.5D     1.50
1981                Onpudda ftelem de  prqcuasria - MAWE                           Fot ad Food rocsiag                   5.50      30D      8.50
1981                flunfo                                                        CheLSs ad F        earodaeils         46.00      4D0    S041
1982                Clseno CAME                                                   Ggs and CastmusSen  1aterIals         40m0       503    45C03
1981                rodipe Agro Industrial S.A6                                   Varp (sutrit triet                    30.00      0.45    3D.45
1983                CLa RLugrmfe   de Pftctcipqos (CO)                             bmey Captal lrirk                      -        0.36     0.36
1983                Atlar Fwriflco                                                Fool and Food P     Ford              13.00      -       13J00
19B3        D         ruputia Dedo do Aue  (CMEA)                                 Palm mll                               6.10      -        6.10
1983                PSAI - _  p de IWrema S.A.                                   Etip & Papr Pedats                    47.50      3.50    51.00
Total Gross iawta                                                                        88I.34     12.75   921J9
less CaslatrS. Terdnatloe. Fepayrts ard Siles                                            589.45     117   6QL62
Tml Qutrel ts No Held by IFC                                                             248.89     69.58   318.47
Tntal liksbn.3                                                                          19J0B      15.24   206.12
April 15, 13



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:              2 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:              SEPLAN/BACEN
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:             February 1983
(d)  First mission to review project:            February 1983
Ce)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:             March 1983
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                 September 1983
5g)  Planned date of effectiveness:              October 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
NONE
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The schedule for phasing out agricultural credit subsidies would
be implemented as agreed (paras 55, 71 and draft Loan Agreement
Section 4.02);
(b)  Adoption of norms, regulations and conditions of operation of
Pro-Invest, including the applicable interest rate schedule would
be agreed with the Bank and such agreement would be a condition
for retroactive financing (paras 69 and 71 and Section 2.01 and
Schedule of the draft Project Agreement);
(c) US$300 million equivalent in investment credit resources would be
transferred to Pro-Invest on its establishment and disbursement
of such funds as needed would be agreed (para 71 and Section
3.01b of the draft Loan Agreement);
(d) The AgriculLural Export Pre-financing Facility (Pro-Export) would
be established in the Central Bank by a vote of the Monetary
Council. Morms and conditions for the proposed Agricultural
Export Rediscount Facility would be agreed with the Bank and such
agreement would be a condition of Board Presentation.
Participating commercial banks would assume any third currency
risk (paras 83-84 and Section 2.01 and Schedule of the draft
Project Agreement);



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(a) As soon as, but no later than 3 years from the date of approval
of this loan, the Government and the Bank agree that Pro-Export
could be maintained by Government resources, the loan proceeds
allocated to Pro-Export wouJd be re-allocated to rural investment
credit under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(para 92 and Sections 3.02(iv) of the draft Loan Agreement and
2.03a of the draft Project Agreement);
(f)  Movements in the ORTN monetary correction index would reflect at
least 90% of annual actual inflation (para 59 and Section 5.01f
of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(g) Any costs associated with maintaining financial charges for
normal rural credits in the North/Northeast regions below
monetary correction prevailing in the rest of Brazil will be
clearly identified within Brazil's fiscal budget and will be
fully and exclusively financed from these allocations from the
fiscal budget beginning in the 1985 fiscal year (para 58 and
Section 4.02c of the draft Loan Agreement).



ANNEX IV
_ 47 -                      Page   of 2
BRAZIL
Bank of Brazil
Financial Statements 1980-1982
(in thousands of cruzeiros)
ASSETS                              1982             1981           1980
Current Assets                  7,628,024,809   4,113,010,660   1,913,857,463
Cash                              219,462,704      77,730,714       49,717,539
Credit Operations               2,258,987,910   1,235.352,138      726,871,285
Due from Banks and Branches       467,609,013     351,389,248      107,071,736
Sundry Receivables             4,666,786,146   2,441,752,937   1,026,320,828
Securities                         14,202,184       6,311,765        3,289,800
Prepaid Expenses                      976,852         473,858          586,275
Long-Term Assets                1,709,792,047     978,768,174      623,890,320
Credit Operations               1,212,674,318     818,904,964      452,557,973
Sundry Receivables                379,871,509     157,099,960      169,666,524
Securities                        117,246,220       2,763,250        1,665,823
Permanent Assets                  459,129,205     219,001,337      102,674,141
Investments                       208,267,950     112,866,620       56,413,214
Fixed                             245,618,960     104,869,341       45,611,807
Deferred Charges                    5,242,295       1,265,376          649,720
TOTAL                         9,796,946,061   5,310,780,171   2,640,422,524
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities             4,589,355,638   2,752,579,923   1,303,719,982
Deposits                        1,473,598,633     763,407,195      434,419,088
Due to Banks and Branches         351,193,341     142,685,422       76,522,848
Funds Borrowed                    399,294,170     331,597,773      183,805,489
Taxes Collected on Behalf of
Government Agencies              54,377,000      33,782.485       19,210,519
Sundry Commitments             2,310,892,494   1,481,107,048       589,762,038
Long-Term Liabilities           4,037,154,039   2,008,480,195   1,102,235,077
Deposits                           35,447,413         -                -
Funds Borrowed                    827,842,759     410,079,864      212,646,000
Sundry Commitments              3,173,863,867   1,598,400,331      889,589,077
Shareholders' Equity           1,170,436,384      549,720,053      234,467,465
Capital Stock                     202,106,680      88,128,000       58,752,000
Capital Reserves                  331,137,497     140,150,979       54,457,508
Revaluation Reserves               18,995,497      16,366,598        4,382,406
Income Reserves                   135,114,912      96,07.,558       44,025,150
Retained Earnings                 483,081,598     209,002,918       72,850,401
TOTAL                        9,796,946,061   5,310,780,171   2,640,422,524



- 48 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
Bank of Brazil
Income Statement
(in thousands of cruzeiros)
1982              1981            1980
Operating Income              1,432,678,957      679,146,529    293,802,127
Operating Expense               877,141,181       392,639,191    189,778,741
Net Operating Income            555,537,776      286,507,338    104,023,386
Non-Operating Income              82,807,861       61,828,823       8,114,051
Non-Operating Expense                950,141          138,352          67,798
Net Non-Operating Income         81,857,720        61,690,471      8,046,253
Net Monetary Correction         (339,279,671)   (135,313,870)   (42,102,140)
Income Before Tax               298,115,825      212,883,939      69,967,499
Income Tax Provision            120.486,649        88,957,349     20,704,052
Net Income                      177,629,176      123,926,590      49,263,447
Earning Per Share               Cr$ 6.05         Cr$ 4.22         Cr$ 1.68



-49 -                       ANNEX V
1982 Rate S   e  Caed with
Ptusing Cut &bhdle
(US$ mlllio.3)
kmmL          Ank al           Anma              Aml
Subsidy   Subsidy Gast at   Subsidy Cost at   Subsidy Cost at
Ccst at   1983/84 Fhasirg   1984/85 Rhirg   1985/86 Raing
1982 Rates     ut Rates         Oat Rates         Out Rates
1.  exter/Saouth Nb.l Credit:
70% Total Cre;Kt,
US$4.97  iLU=n eqivalent               3350.0        1240.0             729.0             481.0
2. Geter/Soth Secal Pcgraisa:
10X Total Credit,
US$710 million, exqualet                550.0         177.0             104.0              70.0
tmvbres wLtw             =b
3. W1tE lbNml Credit,
E5$1,045 milli                          809.2
4. NJ1E Special 1?goai, -witboxt                          564               38.6             317.2
-eted Pragras,
UES205 million equivalent               226.0
5.  EM,epted    azs,
US$74 ZLUion eqtdV1emt                   74.0          40.0              32.5              28.8
TOTL (if nd &uqpt emieption)           5016.0        a321.0            1248.0             897.0
Nltb*rtbeast Dftmlt E1EPtica
6. Nobnl Credit in Nl-Thxgi At kia,
US$548 niml    equitvalet               439.0         224.0             171.0             142.0
7.    1        ;pted Rogra  in  ln-Dat  Areas,
US$42 m1lian equivalent                  41.0          23.0              18.7             16.5
8. 0Ozagt Area fCrits,
*M75 million                            636.0         636.0             636.0             636.0
TOTAL Subsidies, with                  5016          2147              1659              1346
Credit. Subsidy SavrLg, 1983/84 vs. L02 = US$2.9 bihion with droumit
Credit Subsidy Savirg, 1984/85 vs. 1982 =  ;30.4 bllion with dra4t
Credit Subsidy Savirg, 1985/86 vs. 1982 = US$3.7 bIlion s1th dmrugt
= 15$4.1 bllion witb    draot etioa
Assmptiors: 1) 1982 Tnflation Rate, 99.7%
2) Real Cost of Ftdr. to Gormmunt = Retum to CaN bonds, 100% 1amtary CbreGioa plus 8%
3) Total N  Crdits Disbed in 1982, ..p pcdimtely WS$7.1 bllUion exquvalent



so50 -               ANNEX   V'
Page 1 of 4
RUXAL INVESTHENT CREDIT TERMS
General
1.        Rural seasonal (custeio) credit is intended to cover short-tern
production costs, under a formula based on the seasonally calculated valor
basico de custeio (VBC) for each financed crop, variable by region. While
generally presented as covering OOZ of typical production costs, the VBC
typically equals less than 70Z of such costs. Repayment terms range from
six months to two years depending on the crop and activity being financed.
Marketing credits, usually linked to the minimum price system, provide
short-term (about 3 months) financing in the post-harvest period, following
repayment of the seasonal credit. Investment credits are available for
terms ranging typically from five to twelve years depending on the nature
of the asset or activity, as described below.
Financing Limits
2.        Financing limits at official rates, for short-ternm creditsll are
as follows:
Financing Limit
Beneficiary                           General             Northeast
(1) Mini and Small Producer                  90%                 1OOZ
(up to US$7,000, equivalent
in annual production)
(2) Medium Producer                          60%                  70%
(US$7,000 equivalent to
US$100,000 equivalent in
annual production)
(3)  Large Producer                          40Z                  50%
(4) Cooperative with at least
70% small and mini producers            80%                 100o
(5)  Other cooperatives                      60%                  70%
1/ Financing limits under the minimum price program are set by crop and
region by CFP twice a year.



- 51 -                 ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 4
3.        Investment credit terms are as follows:
Proposed
Current          Pro-Invest
Financing         Financing
Beneficiary                           Limit              Limit
(1)  Mini-and small producer                 100%             100%
(2)  Medium producer                          70X              70%
(80Z for soil     (80% for land
improvement)      reclamation and
irrigation)
(3)  Large producer                           50Z               50Z
(80Z for soil     (80% for land
improvement)      reclamation and
irrigation)
(4)  Small farmer cooperatives               100Z              100%
(5)  Other cooperatives                       70%              60%
(6)  Credits for machinery, tractors,
equipment, vehicles, cattle and
reforestation (with 100% monetary
correction):
-  mini-and small producers             100%              100%
-  medium and large producers           100%              90%
4.        A variety of special program credit lines carry special financing
limits. The fully-corrected commercial and investment bank credits with
8-12% interest rates finance 100% of proposed investments.
Investment Categories
5.        Regulations distinguish between credits destined for 'fixed
capital' and  semi-fixed capital.   Investments in all the following
categories (both fixed and semi-fixed capital) will be eligible for
Pro-Invest financing, except land reclamation in the three states in which
the Inter-American Development Bank is already providing confinancing.
Fixed capital investments can finance:
(a) reservoirs;
(b) acquisition of equipment and machinery with an expected life
superior to 5 years;
(c) construction rehabilitation or expansion of improvements and
parmanent installation;



- 52-                 ANNEX VI
- Page 3 of 4
(d)  land clearing, consistent with Forestry Code;
Ce)  destumping;
(f)  drainage, protection and recuperation of the soil;
(g)  rural electrification;
(h)  rural telephone;
1L
(i)  forestation or reforestation;
(j)  planting permanent crops;
(k)  pasture; and
(1)  irrigation.
Credits destined to -semi-fixed capital can finance:
(a)  acquisition of animal for production, reproduction, fattening or
service;
Cb)  acquisition of machines, equipment, tools and installations with
a useful life of up to 5 years;
Cc)  acquisition of vehicles, boats and planes; and
Cd)  acquisition of equipment employed in crop emasurement.
These categories are all to be included in Pro-Invest, except as noted.
Maturities
6.        Maximum meturities on the categories listed above are 5 years for
semi-fixed capital and 12 years for fixed capital, with the following
exceptions:
Maximum Maturity
Land clearing, destumping, rehabilitation of
installations, intense fertilization,
terracing, pasture recuperation                        5 years
Acquisitior. of harvesters, road
tractors or other heavy equipment with more
than 5 years of useful life                            8 years, including up
to 2 years of grace
Trucks with more than 12-ton capacity                   2 years
-  if used in service  proprio' for the entire
year and with special license                     5 years



53 -                ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
Maximum Maturity
Acquisition by mini, small and medium                  8 years, depending on
producers of cattle for reproduction, as               payment capacity
part of integrated project
Animals for fatteaing                                  1 year
c



- 54 -                    ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT FINANCING
Agricultural Exports
1.        Brazil 's total agricultural and agro-industrial exports increased
from US$2.1 billion in 1970 to US$10.6 billion in 1981. Brazil has been
extraordinarily successful since 1970 in the introduction of new export
products. In 1970, coffee, cocoa and sugar represented 43% of total
agricultural related exports, with meat products, soy and orange juice
products representing another 6.1%.  By 1982, coffee, sugar and cocoa                   I
represented 12.8% of the total; soy, meat products, and orange juice 14.7%,
while other, often non-traditional, especially processed, exports
represented 69% of total 1982 agricultural-related exports. This trend
continues, as opportunities for export of processed and frozen fruits and
vegetables and fiber products are explored.
Financing for Agricultural Exports
2.        The supply and terms of credit available to exporters determines
to a major degree the volumes of merchandise which can be traded and their
competitiveness. Various Brazilian Government programs (e.g., FINEX in
Bank of Brazil) provided subsidized credits to exporters of industrial
products, but agricultural exporters have depended almost entirely on
commercial banking credit lines and are in fact the predominant users of
these lines. The phase in which financing is most critical to exporters,
especially exporters of unprocessed or semi-processed goods, is the period
between the order date and the receipt of payment from the importer. These
credits are used to acquire and finance inventory, for immdiate resale or
for processing, as well as to cover transaction costs, preparation,
packing, documents and shipping. This phase is called -pre-export
financing (although it translates in Portuguese as -export pre-
financing").
3.        The major commercial pre-export financing instrument in Brazil is
an advance against foreign export account receivables held by exporters of
Brazilian products. The Brazilian term for such instrument is
adiantamentos sobre contratos de cambio (ACC). An ACC advance is applied
against -exchange contracts- (foreign currency denominated purchase
contracts by foreign importers), hence the terms "contrato de cambio."
Acceptances are usually denominated in the currency of the contract, to
avoid a forward exchange exposure. In Brazil, by regulation, nearly all
ACCs are denominate' in US dollars, which is the primary currency of trade.
4.        ACCs provide working capital to exporters from the date of the
export order to embarkation. They typically have a maximum maturity of 180
days. ACCs are usually packaged with a second instrument, an adiantamento
no contrato do exportacao, or ACE, which provides an additional 180 days
financing from the date of embarkation, plus 30 days for transfer of
documents. The entire package is typically referred to as an -ACC"
financing, with a stated maximum maturity of 390 days. However, given the
perishability of most agricultural products and the sophistication of
international trade in these goods, these financings tend to be liquidated
in an average of 90 days.



-55 -                     ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
5.        An ACC is essentially the same transaction as that underlying a
"bankers acceptance," a widely traded instrument on the international money
market which is essentially a negotiable comnrrcial bank note (such as a
certificate of deposit (CD) but, unlike a CD, secured by a self-
liquidating trade operation. As such, these trade credits are among the
most traditional and secure of commercial operations and money market
instruments. In most countries, these instruments are eligible to serve as
security for Central Bank borrowings. Often the definition by respective
central banks of eligibility criteria for this purpose has been an
important first step in the evolution of a secondary market for these
instruments, as these definitions provide a presumed quality standard for
these notes.
6.        The international bankers acceptance market provides an
interesting model of an active, efficient trade financing market. The
principal secondary markets for -bankers acceptances" are in the U.S. and
U.K. and instruments traded in these markets must be denominated in the
currency of the respective market. (The U.S. market alone has an
outstanding volume of about US$70 billion). Thus, transactions destined
for the U.S. market must be funded or matched with US dollar resources.
Brazilian banks participate in the U.S. market indirectly by reselling
their -acceptances" to American banks who then resell them in the U.S.
market under their own names. This practice is increasingly frowned upon
because an element of safety in this market is presumed to be the guarantee
and quality of the bank whose name supports this paper and which is
presumed to have made the underlying transaction. Some Brazilian
enterprises also participate in this market by obtaining financing through
branches of U.S. banks. The rates for bankers acceptances in the U.S.
secondary market are usually a spread over the prevailing -bankers
acceptance rediscount rate" which, on June 7, 1983, was 8.90% per annum for
a 180-day acceptance.
7.        'Bankers acceptances," per se, do not as yet exist in Brazil as
negotiable instruments on the inter-bank market, for several reasons.
First, transformation of these instruments in Brazil into negotiable,
tradable instruments would require special legislation as the law gaverning
credit instruments, written in the 19th century, did not foresee such a
transaction. Secondly, a bankers acceptance in this context would be
essentially a commercial bank CD secured by a transaction denominated in a
foreign currency (an ACC). In no country at this time is trade allowed in
foreign currency denominated acceptances, although it is not inconceivable
that eventually the markets would develop the sophistication to operate
with such an instrument (the Brazilian ORTN bond, for example, carries
implicit dollar, or cruzeiro devaluation, equivalency). Such financial
market developments, which are clearly in the medium to long-term, should
be considered in the light of an overall review of legislation and
regulation governing commercial and financial transactions, within the
framework of the financial sector work currently being planned in the Bank.
8.        Domestic financing for ACCs in Brazil has always been quite
limited, as appropriate resources are scarce and there has been little
effort to develop secondary markets or innovative sources of funding. As a
result, the major source of financing for these transactions for Brazil has



- 56 -                    ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
been trade credit lines extended by international ba.iks to Brazilian
commercial banks. Since September 1982, international banks have severely
reduced the volume of such lines extended through Brazilian banks. This
cutback significantly restricted the flow and increased the cost of credit
for exports, weakening Brazil's export capabilities at the very time that
export expansion had become a critical necessity. Thus, at a critical
moment the underlying weaknesses of this system have become a severe
problem.
9.        Export pre-financing terms in Brazil seem much less favorable
than those offered for similar transactions elsewhere. For example,
comparable "bankers acceptance" financing for exporters of comparable
products in other countries seem to provide greater flexibility in the
maturity of the transactions, including either greater exporter working
capital or allowing some lag in importers' payments. Most Brazilian
transactions seem in practice to have required payment on embarkation. The
cost of the same transactions ia Brazil are priced several points higher
than the equivalent transaction on the international market. The price
differential is somewhat understandable. Brazilian banks have far fewer
funding optio;ls for these transactions than do banks elsewhere. For
example, many international banks have a variety of options for reselling
these instruments, either to their respective central banks, to investors
or to other financial institutions, while the Brazilian bank would have to
fund these transactions from deposits or CDs, or other internally-generated
resources, with little opportunity for refinancing except for those few
transactions acceptable to international banks for resale in the U.S. and
British markets. Therefore, the Braa.'lian bank would have far fewer
resources for these transactions and the transactions individually would
have to be more profitable.
10.       Institutional Framework for Export Financing.  Eighty-four
commercial banks are authorized by the Central Bank to undertake foreign
exchange operations and therefore to finance ACCs. Bank of Brazil is an
important factor in this highly competitive market, with several major
private banks each claiming significant (10-15%) shares. The market
appears fairly efficient. However, rates, which are priced off the 180-day
LIBOR base rate, are quite high (1.3Z per month in July 1983, or about 23%
p.a., with the cost of funds averaging LIBOR plus 1-1.75 points plus
assorted fees adding up to 6-9 points). These high rates partly reflect
the current scarcity of funds.
11.       Resources have been extremely limited this year.  Although the
larger private banks and, lately, Bank of Brazil seem to have been able to
maintain their external credit lines, small banks have suffered in the
cutback of external credit lines. The Central Bank has allowed several
banks to increase their foreign exchange exposures, with implicit Central
Bank protection, to permit use of internal resources for these transac-
tions. A resource gap is expected in the last quarter of the year as
export volumes reach their seasonal high levels.
12.       The total outstanding volume of ACCs in Brazil on December 31,
1982, was US$4.5 billion, falling to about US$2.0 billion in mid-July
1983. Although specific sectoral distribution data are not available,



- 57 -                    ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 4
agricultural and agro-industrial products, which represent up to 60% of
total exports, probably represent a larger share of ACC volumes. Thus,
current ACC volume for these exports certainly exceeds US$1 billion.
The Proposed Rediscount Facility
13.       The proposed project component would seek to strengthen and
stabilize the internal banking market for ACCs by helping to develop a
secondary source of funds for these transactions in the Central Bank.
Essentially, the proposed component would seek to convert the current
crisis into an opportunity for substantial institution-building and
innovation in Brazil's financial system while providing significant support
for agricultural trade. ACCs are not considered new credits for the purpose
of the INF agreement and therefore agreed targets on the expansion of
monetary assets of the monetary authorities will not restrict the
incremental expansion of this market. The proposed rediscount facility,
Pro-Export, would stand ready to refinance up to 35%, or US$200 million
equivalent, of the eligible ACCs disbursed daily by commercial banks. A
major objective of the establishment of the rediscount facilities for ACCs
would be to increase the competitiveness and liquidity of the market for
these transactions, as well as to encourage more flexibility in their
design. Such strengthening of the internal market for export financing
instruments would significantly assist Brazil in achieving its external
sector targets and would also be a critical stimulus to the development of
agricultural export production.
14.       The Mechanism Proposed.  Under a system already quite precisely
detailed, the Foreign Department of the Central Bank would telex to each
participating bank each day its maximum funding level for that day's ACC
refinancing. This would be handled much as daily foreign exchange
exposures are managed and funding levels would be determined on the basis
of the available resources in Pro-Export and recent ACC financing patterns
of the banks. A participating bank would be authorized to seek refinancing
for up to 35% of the total eligible ACC transaction it finances that day,
up to the funding limit specified. An eligible ACC would be an ACC covered
by an export contract for agricultural or agro-industrial products. The
Central Bank would concurrently, by telex, post the 180-day LIBOR rate
applicable for its relending, subject to a 0.25% spread. At the end of
each day, each participating bank would telex the Central Bank the list of
all eligible ACCs financed that day, identifying those within its ceiling,
up to 35% of the value of the total it wishes to submit for refinancing.
These selected transactions would then each be 100% rediscounted, by
r         Pro-Export, with the participating bank still retaining the credit risk.
Whatever the currency of the contract, the participating bank would have to
repay US dollars to Pro-Export, at a rate determined at the time of
refinancing. If the export contract is cancelled, the exporter would be
obligated to repay his bank in US dollars plus the substantial penalties
due on unrealized ACC transactions, in accordance with current law, and the
bank would have to repay the Central Bank. This entire system, as well as
the management of accounts within Pro-Export, will be managed by computer,
for which a program is currently being prepared. An operating manual is
also under preparation and the system's accounting and control systems have
already been developed. Draft guidelines and manuals for the system have
been reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory.



- 58 -
AI%MX VIII
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
Forecast Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
Quarter            Estimated               Cumulative
FY          Ending           Disbursements            Disbursements
1984         Sept. 30
Dec. 31              230.0                    230.0
Mar.  31              20.0                    250.0
June  30              20.0                    270.0
1985         Sept. 30               21.00                  291.0
Dec.  31              11.0                    302.0
Mar.  31               0.50                   302.5
June  30               0.50                   303.0
1986         Sept. 30
Closing Date:                      09/30/85



- 59 -
ANNEX IX
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Resolution of National Monetary Council for Pro-Invest and Interest-Rate
Phasing Out
Draft Central Bank Circular for Pro-Invest
Central Bank Circular for Implementation of Phasing Out
Circular Pertaining for Drought Emergency and Estimation 1982 Credits in
Region.
Draft Manual, Control and Accounting System for Pro- Export
Draft Central Bank Circular for Pro-Export
Rural Credit Manual
Laws and Regulations Pertaining to ACCs
Laws and Regulations Pertaining to Agricultural Exports
Central Bank Annual Reports and Quarterly and Annual Rural Credit Reports
1982 and 1983 National Monetary Budget and Amendments
Letters of Agreement with IMF
Bank of Brazil Annual Reports and Quarterly and Monthly Rural Credit
Reports
Terms of Reference and Convenios for Joint Agricultural Policy Re.riew,
Phase I
Draft Work Program, Joint Agricultural Policy Review, Phase II
Rules of Operation of National Economic Research Program



(VEN EZU E L'A                            -
( SURINAME 
C O L O M B I Ar                oVistao
-.-7  &            '         9   v     1         AMAPAI
rz    \                 /s /n                     Mac  -  a9  
o' t A 't ''V'. >     t3g 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
L~~~~~~~~~~~ I            IR .
o        --o ;          X    w1fl dS 
4- ~ ~   -     
.2~ ~ ~~~~M
s1~~~~~, J   J-1L--f   
Rio  B rjanc,       ..............,,  , WA V..............  
P E R U                                          At (1/  P ^A    R T
!--o   \   ,                J   ~~~~~~~~~~~Cuiab     z
t               >      g   *          /     B~~~~~ V
B O L I V I A            w)z                  oo
\ ------> Viho               )ATO CGROSSO
R'o ,Bronc= -  o \   \,  j                 Campo Grondo
\    ?     j          )    ~~~~~~DO SUL 
---   it\J\PARAGARAS
aCHILEj                         Bb      gPARAN A M T
(p  Cu6Curitibo'
BOjLiVI                                 Jf S=4!<TA ATi-
SOUTH*-  \                                      *      J  '- loric
'.     BRA Z IL    ) |A R G E N T Iv[ A  v? -
."It                                              'RODSO SULR
AMEICA                                               PortoAnlegre
I ,t      W.W j .*-. ZW                                      Kl
}   1  > '  Xe~cvom7mofSb e so{ nof  of  0 
I , p\ so *kh                   I  '       f V,
7H dE;wmd W O
,.j~~~~~~~i , \ '. =<                       ,URUGUAY 
rJ ~~~~~~~~~t. nrr rgaOsim   of
_   L raraceeofa_.        -.\PAJ ANA



I BRD-15685
JIJREftH                                                                             APRIL 1981
4kURINAME\YIA)t;
%  k    _,,/  /o 
-t
MocapVT;a                                                                            r
A                 ~~~~~Belim   / $'
;]   ;    'j  Ar7~~r  ,' 
.  1,1'I''  ,               ; *~           / >  7lmi  
~~; Z ' - I:J'  >- ''s'1 ~"'  t1 ~ t  .li   >  ,iv Sao. Luist
A r I A N r /c
j ;,1E  y   W    f  .1            *Fortaleza
:  ,      K,- a                       Ui                           O 8  \  d4ARANffAO  }  ;  -  _    r}  C E  A  N
/Toresina                      .DE DO NORTE
I..      N                                             -    *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Joao %$sou
'1 -      - '  '  7  {    TP IA iU  '
-g            \                                                  ,  5 _ J  I . e f  Re
_,=-  Mcei6
>' AGOAS
J   r  I   (  .. m        B     gA    i              ,, /SERGIPE
; .   -   ; .  ../'-O   K 11 A c                             ,Oilvcdor
Cuiabo                F!-ea A                  i  r        - 'Fi
Cuiab6                       ~~~~~District-'  ' 'I
o               ~~~~~~~~~BRASil-A14   ,
A>,                 7'    Goionia o-
It                 -                             K                  -    I
Compo Grande.-            .                Belo      ; i: ;'>RITO SANTO
,/              !               -. Horizonte-
!               s                  .      ;   -       ,-      utor70     A   r -    * .  I  I.  N
_._^.> . : . ~-    --           C -2                 3 -'  i y'2
IJAY     t      ,-                             -    .'7, P 104o  44  8  r    l!   @! NEIRO
Q     \                     ':!         S    s -    Rio de Joneiro
OSantos
Curifiba -
- NA
Florion6olis        j                   BRAZI L
Alege     .0                                          National capital
Ne  \   Porto  *egre                                          0    State and territory capitals
KILOMETERS 0  100 20 300 '                State and territory boundaries
AMILES 6    100   260   360           International boundaries
/URUGUAY                                                            -  Rives
- , ,\       ,>          5 Sr                              AC                                3C?






