OFFICIAL
DOCUENTS          LOAN NUMBER*3       BR
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Credit and Export
Development Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                     ,W1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER        BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  C                          , 1983, between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WREREAS (A) the Borrower and the Bank agree that the elimi-
nation of rural credit subsidies is essential to create the con-
ditions for sound and sustainable growth of the Borrower's agri-
cultural sector;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by
Banco Central do Brasil with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Banco Central do Brasil the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Banco
Central do Brasil;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, .1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective  meanings   therein  set  forth   and  the  following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and Banco Central do Brasil of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules   to  the   Project  Agreement   and   all  agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) Central Bank means "Banco Central do Brasil";
(c) "Export Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by a Financial Intermediary to an Agricultural Exporter
included under Part A of the Project;
(d) "Financial Intermediary" means any bank or financial
entity which is authorized to ojerate in foreign exchange
transactions pursuant to the Brazilian banking regulations and
has been approved by *the Central Bank to participate in the
carrying out of Part A of the Project;
(e) "Advances against Foreign Exchange Contracts" means
Adiantamentos sobre Contratos de Cambio, a form of export
financing regulated pursuant to Title 5 of Chapter 5 of the
Consolidagao das Normas Cambiais issued by the Central Bank;
(f) "Eligible Advances against Foreign Exchange Contracts"
means Advances against Foreign E     ange Contracts relating to
export of agricultural or agro-induL4rial products;
(g) "Agricultural Export Pre-financing Facility" or "AEPF"
means the redliscounting facility referred to in Section 2.01 (c)
of the Project Agreement;
(h) "Special Account" means the account to be opened by the
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (d) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement;
(i) "AEPF Operating Regulations" means the operating regu-
lations for the AEPF contained in the Comunicado DECAM No.
dated              issued by the Central Bank;
(j) "Agricultural Exporter" means an agricultural or agro-
industrial producer or trader entitled to benefit from Eligible
Advances against Foreign Exchange Contracts pursuant to the
regulations issued by the Central Bank;
(k) "Investment Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to
be made by a Participating Intermediary included under Part B of
the project to finance an Investment Project;


﻿-3-
(1) "Investment Project" means a specific investment pro-
ject to be carried out by an Agricultural Enterprise and consist-
ing of one or more of the types of rural investments described in
the MCR;
(m) "Participating Intermediary" means any bank or finan-
cial entity which has been approved by the C'entral Bank for par-
ticipation under Part B of the Project;
(n)  "PRO-INVEST"  means   the   Programa  de   Investimento
Agricola (the Agricultural Investment Program) of the Central
Bank established by the Borrower's Monetary Council on June 9,
1983;
(o) "PRO-INVEST Operating Regulations" means Capitulo 33 of
the MCR as amended by Circular No. 809 dated August 11, 1983
issued by the Central Bank;
(p)  "Agricultural Enterprise" means an enterprise or an
individual producer eligible to participate in PRO-INVEST;
(q) "MCR" means the Manual de Credito Rural published by
the Central Bank, as amended from time to time;
(r)  "ORTN"  means   Obrigar,es   Reajustaveis   do  Tesouro
Nacional, the adjustable national treasury bonds established
under Law No. 4357 dated July 16, 1964 of the Borrower as amended
from time to time; and
(a)  "cruzeiro" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to three
hundred and three million dollars ($303,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid):
(i) by the Central Bank on account of payments under
an Export Sub-loan to meet disbursements made by a


﻿-4-
Financial Intermediary to an Agricultural Exporter
in the form of Eligible Advances against Foreign
Exchange Contracts;
(ii) by the Central Bank on account of payments made by
a Participating Intermediary to an Agricultural
Enterprise under an Investment Sub-loan to meet
35% of disbursements made for the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the carrying
out of an Investment Project; provided, however,
that (A) in respect of disbursements rvade under
Investment Sub-loans for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement pursuant to sub-paragraph
(c) (i) below, the disbursement percentage shall
be 30%; and (B) no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of an Investment Sub-loan unless the Bank
has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account
therefor;
(iii) by the Borrower on account of expenditures made
for the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the carrying out of Part C of the
Project; and
(iv)  by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of this
Agreement.
(b) The proceeds of the Loan shall be allocated as follows:
Category (1) $110,000,000    Equivalent for Export
Sub-loans
Category (2) $70,000,000     Equivalent for Investment
Sub-loans
Category (3)   $2,244,389    Equivalent for Part C of
the Project
Category (4) $90,000,000     Initial deposit into AEPF
pursuant to paragraph I of
Schedule    3    to   this
Agreement
Category (5) $30,000,000     Initial deposit into
Special Account pursuant


﻿-5-
to paragraph 1 of Schedule
3 to this Agreement
Category (6)    $755,611     Fee corresponding to
amount due under Section
2.04 of this Agreement
The foregoing allocation of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank
after consultation with the Central Bank.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (a) above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, provided, however, that
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made in the carrying out
of Part B of the Project in an aggregate amount not exceeding
$30,000,000 equivalent may be made prior to that date but after
August 11, 1983; (ii) disbursements made by the Central Bank on
account of Export Sub-loans in each banking day exceeding thirty-
five per cent (35%) of the total Eligible Advances against
Foreign Exchange Contracts made by all the Financial Inter-
mediaries during the course of such banking day. For purposes of
this sub-paragraph "banking day" means any day of the year on
which banks are open for business in Brazil.
(d) The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain,
a Special Account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Disbursements out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively to pay the reasonable cost of goods and services
required to carry out Parts B and C of the Project and to be
financed by the Bank pursuant to this Section.
(e) Deposits from the Loan Account into the Special Account
and the AEPF shall bc made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to seven hundred fifty-five thousand six hundred
eleven dollars ($755,611).
(b) On or promptly after the Effectiv. Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account


﻿-6-
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.07
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified    Borrowings"  means   (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.


﻿-7-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Central Bank is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this 1,greement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the Central Bank to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
of the Central Bank therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the Central Bank to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) Without limitation to paragraph (a) above, the Borrower
shall make available to its Central Bank in a timely manner an
amount equivalent to $300,000,000 to enable the Central Bank to
carry out PRO-INVEST and Part B of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall carry out, through its Secretaria de
Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica, Part C of the Project
described in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
agricultural and economic policy practices.
(d) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(e) The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part C of the Pro-
ject: (i) establish and thereafter maintain, an expert working


﻿-8-
group in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) staff such working group with professionals with
adequate qualification and experience and in adequate number and
provide such working group with the resources necessary to carry
out their functions in an efficient and diligent manner; and
(iii) exchange views with the Bank on the appointment of the head
coordinator of such working group.
(f) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the studies included
in the program described in Part C of the Project in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, such terms of
reference to be furnished to the Bank not later than October 31,
1984; and (ii) promptly upon completion of each of the studies
referred to in (i) above, exchange views with the Bank on its
conclusions and the recommendations for actions deriving there-
from.
(g) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Parts A and B of the Project to the Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The
Central Bank shall utilize such proceeds pursuant to the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement in is capacity as financial agent
of the Borrower.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part C
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and to disclose their use in the carrying
out of Part C of the Project; (ii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning Part C of the Project, its cost and where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds; (iii) exchange views with the Bank at
regular intervals on the progress made in the execution of Part C
of the Project and in the activities required to carry out the
programs of studies and technical assistance described therein;
and (iv) exchange views with the Bank and the Central Bank, not
later than September 30, 1986, on the need of maintaining the
operation of the AEPF and the eventual transfer of its proceeds,
or a portion thereof, for purposes of their utilization in the
PRO-INVEST or such other agricultural investment program of the
Borrower as may be agreed between the Bank, the Borrower and the
Central Bank.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public-assets" means
assets of   the Borrower, of any     political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take, or cause to be
taken, all actions necessary to apply tr all agricultural credit


﻿- 10 -
operations included in the Borrower's agricultural credit
programs the following minimum conditions:
(i) the principal of the credits shall be denominated
in cruzeiros and shall be adjusted at least semi-
annually in accordance with the. actual variation
of the ORTN in the percentages set forth below:
Percentage of monetary correction
expressed as a percentage of the monetary
correction of the ORTN
Period           North/Northeast area - All other areas
July 1983 - June 1984                 70              85
July 1984 - June 1985                 80               95
July 1985 - June 1986                 85             100
(ii) the principal of the credits shall be adjusted
pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above to reflect:
(A)  in   respect  of   investment   credits,  the
variations of the ORTN during the last six-month
period; and (B) in respect of short-term credit,
the variation of the ORTN from the date of such
credit to its date of maturity. For purposes of
this   sub-paragraph  "investment   credit"  means
"credito de investimento" as such term is defined
in the MCR; and "short-term credit" means "credito
de custeio" and "credito de comercializav,o",,as
such terms are defined in the MCR.
(iii) interest rate shall be payable at an annual rate
of not less than 3% calculated over the principal
of the credit adjusted pursuant to (i) and (ii)
above and paragraph (b) below.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above:
(i) in respect of the agricultural credit programs of Sertanejo,
POLONORDESTE, PROHIDRO, PROCANOR, PROBOR, PROTERRA and POLOAMA-
ZONIA (as such terms are defined in the MCR) the principal of the
credits shall be adjusted at a percentage of monetary correction
of the ORTN of not less than 55%, 65% and 70% for the respective
periods referred to in (a) (i) above; and (ii) in respect of
agricultural investment credits for the financing of equipment,
vehicles, forestry   and   cattle  in  an  amoint  exceeding   the
equivalent of 100 M.V.R., the principal of the credits shall be


﻿- 11 -
adjusted at all times at 100% of the monetary correction of the
ORTN.
(c) The Borrower hereby covenants that, commencing in the
fiscal year starting January 1, 1985, any costs associated with
the maintenance of the monetary correction of the principal of
rural credits for the North/Northeast area below the monetary
correction of the ORTN applicable to all other areas pursuant to
the table in paragraph (a) above, shall be specifically budgeted
in the Borrower's fiscal budget (Orgamento da-Uniao) and financed
exclusively out of the proceeds of such fiscal budget.
(d) For purposes of this Section: (i) the term "North/
Northeast sh 11 mean the jurisdiction areas of the Superinten-
dencia para Desenvolvimento da Amazonia (SUDAM) and Superinten-
dencia para Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE) and the Vale do
Jequitinhonha, (all as defined in the MCR) and the State of
Espirito Santo; (ii) the term M.V.R. means "Maior Valor de
Referencia" as defined in Law 6205 dated April 29, 1975.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall have the Special Account
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and, promptly after the audit and not later than four months
after the close of the Central Bank's fiscal year, the Bank shall
be furnished with certified copies of such audit, together with a
certified copy of the auditor's report, including a description
of the audit procedures; and
(b) the Borrower shall cause to have furnished to the Bank
each month certified statements of the Special Account, and from
time to time such other information concerning such Special
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Central Bank shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Central Bank will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Law No. 4595 of the Borrower, dated December 31, 1964,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Central Bank to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Central Bank or for the suspension of its opera-
tions.
(e) The PRO-INVEST Operating Regulations, the MCR, the AEPF
Operations Regulations or the provisions currently regulating the
Advances against Foreign Exchange Contracts shall have been
amended, waived or abrogated, in a manner which, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, adversely affects the execution of the
Project.
(f) For three consecutive months (each such month herein-
after called the ORTN month) the adjustments made in the ORTN for
the twelve-month period immediately preceding each ORTN month is
below the variation in the Indice Geral de Prepos - Disponibili-
dade Interna issued by the Fundago Getulio Vargas for the
twelve-month period ending three months prior to each ORTN month
by at least ten percentage points.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall have occurred and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) or paragraph (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions; namely, that the Loan Agreement has been registered
by the Central Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
motters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Central
Bank, and is legally binding upon the Central Bank in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the
Central Bank; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals (in-
cluding such acts, consents and approvals as are required for the
purpose of making available the proceeds of the Loan to the
Central Bank) to be performed or given by the Borrower, its
political subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any
political subdivision or otherwise to be performed or given in
order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable
the Borrower and the Central Bank, respectively, to perform all
of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower in
the Loan Agreement, and of the Central Bank in the Project
Agreement contained, together with all necessary powers and
rights in connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date                51 1       , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated


﻿14-
as representative of the Borrower for thb purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 Brasilia, D.F., Brasil
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                            611506 MFAZ BR
Brasilia, Brasil
with copies to:
Banco Central do Brasil
SBS - Projegao 33-A 180 andar.
Brasilia, D.F., Brasil
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANCENTRAL                        0612149
Brasilia, Brasil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused. this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names In Brasilia,
Federative Republic-of Brazil, as of the day and year sirst above
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
ByIS                            A4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                                      Ll
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are: to assist the Borrower in
(i) the adoption of reforms in its agricultural credit system;
(ii) the provision of a minimum level of investment resources for
the agricultural sector during the years 1983 and 1984; (iii) the
provision of working capital financing for exporters in the
agricultural sector; (iv) the analysis and formulation of poli-
cies to be applied in the agricultural sector; and (v) the
strengthening of agricultural sector institutions.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:
Sub-loans   for  the   financing  of   the  working   capital
requirements of Agricultural Exporters in the form of Eligible
Advances against Foreign Exchange Contracts.
Part B:
Sub-loans for the financing of Investment Projects.
Part C:
1.   A program of studies for purposes of reviewing existing, and
formulating new, policies in the agricultural sector.
2.   A program of technical assistance for strengthening policy
formulation and implementation capacity of agricultural sector
institutions.
*                e                a
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1985.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 1987
through   October 15, 1998                12,625,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Prmiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                         0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                         0.87
not more than thirteen
years before maturity
More than thirteen years                           1.00
before maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Agricultural Export Pre-financing
Facility and Special Account
1.    The Bank may, after the Effective Date, withdraw on behalf
of the Borrower from the Loan Account and deposit: (A) in the
Agricultural Exports Pre-financing Facility the amount in dollars
allocated to Category 4 of paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; and (B) in the Special Account an amount in dollars
allocated to Category 5 of paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement.
2.   At the request of the Central Bank, pursuant to Section 2.09
of this Agreement, the Bank shall further withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the AEPF or the Special Accounts as the
case may be, such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
AEPF or the Special Account with amounts equal to payments made
out of the AEPF for expenditures for Part A of the Project or
from the Special Account for expenditures for Parts B and C of
the Project eligible for financing under this Agreement. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise determine, each such deposit after
the initial deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under Category (1) set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement in respect of the AEPF or under Categories
(2) and (3) of such paragraph in respect of the Special Account,
and in the same respective amounts as have been justified by the
documentation for the request for such deposit furnished pursuant
to paragraph 3 below.
3.   Each request for a withdrawal from the AEPF or the Special
Account shall be made by the Central Bank, pursuant to Sec-
tion 2.09 of this Agreement, on the basis of statements of ex-
penditures showing that each payment in respect of which such
request is made was made on account of expenditures elegible for
financing under Part A of the Project or Parts B and C of the
Project, as the case may be, and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement and this Schedule. The Central Bank
shall: (A) withdraw from the AEPF an amount in dollars determined
on the basis of the foregoing evidence, and shall cause the
Financial Intermediary to convert such amount into cruzeiros
determined on the basis of the rate of exchange between the
dollar and the cruzeiro in effect at the time each disbursement
under an Export Sub-loan is made; and (B) withdraw from the


﻿- 20 -
Special Account an amount in cruzeiros determined on the basis of
the foregoing evidence, and shall debit the Special Account with
the dollar equivalent of such amount in cruzeiros determined on
the basis of the rate of exchange between the dollar and the
cruzeiro in effect at the time each payment was made.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit by the
Bank into the AEPF or the Special Account, as the case may be,
the Central Bank shall furnish to the Bank in respect of each
withdrawal an application for withdrawal from the Loan Account on
the basis of the statements of expenditures referred to in para-
graph 3 above.
5.    If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out of
the AEPF or the Special Account (A) was made for any amount not
eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Loan Account, or
(B) was not justified by the statements of expenditures furnished
pursuant to paragraph 2 above, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank and, unless otherwise determined by the
Bank, prior to any further deposit in the AEPF and/or the Special
Account by the Bank, deposit in the AEPF or in the Special
Account, as the case may be, or if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
6.   Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 1 above, no fur-
ther deposit in the AEPF or in the Special Account may be made by
the Bank when the total amount unwithdrawn from the Loan Account:
(A) in respect of Part A of the Project shall have reached the
equivalent of $110,000,000; or (B) in respect of Parts B and C of
the Project shall have reached the equivalent of $60,000,000,
respectively. Withdrawals from the Loan Account of the remaining
amount of the Loan for purposes of Part A of       the Project or
Parts B and C of the Project, as the case may be, shall follow
such procedures as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank and shall be made only to the extent that the Bank shall be
satisfied by the evidence submitted in support of the applica-
tions for such withdrawal that all payments by the Borrower out
of the AEPF or the Special Account were made in accordance with
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and, in respect of the AEPF, of
Section 2.01(c) of the Project Agreement.
7.   Notwithstanding the provisions regarding the initial deposit
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the Bank may at the
request of and by notice to the Borrower, increase the amount of


﻿- 21 -
the initial deposit in order to adjust the level of the AEPF or
the Special Account to the disbursement requirements of Part A or
Parts B and C of the Project, respectively. In such cases the
Bank may also adjust the amounts referred to in paragraph 6 of
this Schedule and in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
8.     If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the AEPF or Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for expenditures under the
Project eligible for financing under the Loan, the Borrower shall
promptly upon notice from the Bank and unless otherwise agreed by
the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of Or"   slq8 3
FOR SECRETARY


