Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7151
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
(Credit 904-SU)
March 11, 1988
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a resticted disbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed withbout Wonid Bank authorizaion.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare     =  2.47 acres    =  2.38 feddan
I feddan      =  1.04 acres    =  0.42 hectare
1 short ton   =  2,000 pounds  -  0.9 metric ton
I metric ton  -  1,000 kg         2,000 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ADS       Agricultural Development Service
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
EPAPC     Equatoria Province Agricultural Projects Corporation.
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization of United Nations
GTZ       FRG's Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeitung
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
LMMC      Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
ODA       UK's Overseas Development Administration
PCR       Project Completion Report
PDU       Project Development Unit
PFU       Project Formulation Unit
RMEA      Bank Resident Mission in East Africa
RSADP     Regional Smallscale Agricultural Development Program
SRAP      Southern Region Agriculture Project
SRMOA     Southern Region Ministry of Agriculture
UNDP      United Nations Development Fund
YARC      Yambio Agricultural Research Center



FOR OVVCAL US ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washngton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O0O O OWKW_COsWI
0Wgia evahaan
March 11, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sudan Southern
Region Anriolwture Prolect (Credit 904-SU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Sudan Southern Region Agriculture Project
(Credit 904-SU)' prepared by the Eastern and Southern Africa Regional
Office. Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation
Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a md  distribu;ond may be od by rscpIntc ony in the perfonmnac
ofdw ofAthia lsl dutims Its contents may not othewise be dbstsod witbout Wodd Bak uthorition.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT (Cr. 904-SU)
Project Completion Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .........................................
Basic Data Sheet .....................
Evaluation Summary                                        i - iii
I.  Introduction ........       ...................... ........    1
II.  The Project .........                                       2
III.  Project Evaluation          4.........    .................. ....    4
IV.  Implementation Problems           ............................    8
V. Assessment of Bank Performance
and Lessons Learned .....        ..............    10
Annex A - Project Related Tables
1. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
2. Disbursement Schedule
Annex B - Other Related Items
1. Compliance with Major Covenants
Map IBRD 13902R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SUDN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT (Cr. 904-SU)
ProJect Completion Report
Preface
The credit, US$15.0 million, was approved by the Board on May 8,
1979, sdgned on May 11, 1979, and became effective on February 14, 1980.
The orlginal closing date was June 30, 1984, but was extended to June 30,
1985. The flnal disbursement was mede on July 27, 1985 and on September
10, 1985 an undisbursed amount of US$5,884,397.03 wai cancelled.
The Project Completlon Report was prepared by the Northern
Agriculture Division of the Bank's Eastern and Southern Africa Region. The
document is based on supervision reports prepared on behalf of the
International Development Association (IDA) and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), joint financiers of the project, and on
other documents and correspondence available in the project file. The
early suspension of project activities caused by political unrest in the
region and the subsequent dispersion of project related staff made It
impossible to prepare a comprehensive completion report in the field or to
carry out a project completion mission as planned.
Copies of the draft report were sent to the Borrower and co-financiers
on December 23, 1937 for comments. However, no comments were received.
This project has not been audited by OED.



SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
(Credit 904-SU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Dat.- Sheet
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal     Actual or            Actual as I of
Esti%ate    Estimated Actual  Appraisal Estimate
Pro ect  Costs CUSS million)                                                  56.0           39.8 /a               71
Credit Amount (USS million)                                                   15.0            9.1                  61
Date Board Approval                                                                         5/08179
C.edit Agreement Date                                                                      5211/79
Date Effectiveness                                                          e/11179         2/14/80               ISO
Date rhysical Components Completed                                            1983           1984                  25
Proportion Then Completd ()100                                                            25                   25
Closing Date                                                               6/30/84         6/30/8S                 33
Economic Rate of Return (2)                                                     15         Negative
Institutional Perforance                                                                   Inadequate
Agronomic Performance           Satisfactory for one component (coffee) and unsatisfactory to poor for others
tCUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY80    FY81   FY82    FY83   FY84   FY85   FY96
Apraisal Estimate (USS million)                                    2.4       5.5    8.9    12.3   15.0       -      -
Actual (USS million)                                               1.5       3.5    5.t      f.9    8.9    9.3    9.1 /b
Actual/Estimated (2)                                                63        64     74       56     59     62      61
Date of Final Disbursement                                                                July 27. 1985
Repaid to 10/31/86 (USS million)                  Mot s,n'lcabe. Creetc st Il  fn erace period.
MISSION DAT
Sent           Date    No. of      Man-days    Speclalizations    Performance             Types of
Mission           by           (mo/yr)  Persons    in Field    Represented  /c    Rating/d   Trend/e   Problems /f
Identification        HQ/RtHEA          /s
Preparation I         RKEA           7-8/77      1           8         E
Preparation 2         RMEA             9/77      2           10/h      E, L
Preparation 3         RMEA         10-11/77      2            7        E, L1
Pre-Appraisal         HQ/RH EA         3/78      2           Il/h      E, L
Appraisal             HQ               5/78      4      _i  26         E, A, F, R, C, V
Post-Appraisal        Ng              12/78      2            3        A.  F    _____      _______________
Subtotal                                                    65                                   ____      ________
Superv_iion  I _      tEA              6/79      1           12        E                        3        2        P. M.F
Supervision  2        RMEA            12/79      1           5         E                        3        2        F.P.,M
Supervision  3        RMEA             5/80      2            7        E.L                      2        2        O,M
Livestock Review      NHQ/REA         10 80      4           12        E. L  V                 -        -        -
Supervision 4         RMEA            11/80      M/         12         E                        2        1        0  M
Supervision  5        RHEA             8/81      2/k         9         E, L                     3        2        P  H
Supervision  6        RHEA         11-12/81      3/1         9         E. L,A                   3        2        P, P,M
Supervision  7        RHE              5/82      2          10         L                        3        3        M. P, F, 0
Supervision  8a       RHeA             8/82      3            t        E, L                     3        3        M. F. P. 0
Supervision  Sb       RMEA         10-1/82/im   2            2         L
Supervisin  9         RMEA           1-2/83/n   3            12        E,L                      3        1        N, P,0
Supervision 10        RHEA             7/83      1           3         L                        3        2        M. F. 0
Supervision 11        RMEA            11/83      3            7        E,L                      3/o      I        M,P
Supervision 12        SHEA             3/84      1           2         E                        3/T,     3        P
Subtotal                                                   103
Completion Report                                2            5
TOTAL                                                       173
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrover:   Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Executing Agency: Southern Region Ministry of Agriculture
Fiscal Year of Borrower: July 1 to June 30
Nome of Currency (Abbreviation) Sudanese Pound (LSd)
Currency Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average                        US$1.00 = LSd 0.50
Intervening Years Average                     US$1.00 - LSd 1.06
Completion Year Average                       US$1.00 - LSd 2.50
Follow-on project: None /2
/a  Estimate. A total amount of USS5.884,397.83 was cancelled forn the US$15 million IDA credit.
/b  Reduction from FY85 explained by reimbursement to IDA of initial advance provided to Borrower in 1980.
Ic  E - Economist; L - Livestock specialist; A - Agriculturist; F   Financial Analyst; R - Rural Services specialist;
C - Civil Engineer; V - Veterinarian.
/d  I - Problem free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3   Major problems.
/e  I - Improving; 2 - Stationary; 3 - Deteriorating.
If  P - Procurement; M - Managerial; F - Financial; O - Others.
/j  Identification during supervision and review of preceding Douthern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 476-SU).
/h  Joint missions with supervision of Credit 476-SU.
/i Includes two Bank staff and two IDA consultants but. in addition. there were two ODM and two MTZ consultants.
Ij Includes only one Bank staff. In addition, there were four ODA and two IFAD mission members.
/k Includes Bank staff only. In addition, there were five mission members from ODA.
/   Includes Bank staff only. In addition, there were three mission embers from ODA.
/e  Follow-up to mission of 8/82.
/n  Joint donor agencies' review.
/o Lau-based components only would rate 2 in performance with I in trend.
/j Some components of this project have continued as part of the Equatoria Region Agriculture Project, with ODA
support.



SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT (Cr. 904-SU)
Project Completion Report
Evaluation Summary
i.        The Southern Region Agriculture project (SRAP) and Its
predecessor, the Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation project (Cr.
476-SU), represent the World Bank's Involvement in Southern Sudan's
agriculture during the only period of relative peace in the region's recent
history. SRAP's main objectives were to assist the Regional Ministry of
Agriculture in strengthening its planning capabilities, agricultural
v0      services and managerial capacity for rural development programs.  The
project provided support for the Ministry's Planning Department as well as
*       a range of crop and livestock development activities.  Total project cost
was US$56 million equivalent, of which US$15 million represented an IDA
credit and the remaining US$15 million provided by the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD), as well as grants from the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) of US$18.5 million and the Federal
Republic of Germany's foreign assistance agency (GTZ) of US$1.9 million. A
Sudannese government contribution of US$5.6 million covered the balance of
expected project costs.
ii.       Starting with a delayed effectiveness, the project had to contend
with multiple and often interrelated constraints throughout its
implementation. Some of the components, notably the strengthening of the
regional Planning Department and parts of the crops component, were able to
achieve reasonable success. Overall, the project was plagued with
managerial, procurement, financial and other problems and, except for one
brief period in 1980, was rated a problem project from effectiveness to
closure.
iii.      By 1983, Government and donors agreed that the project could not
be implemented in -ts original form and sought ways to decentralize key
functions.  This process was accelerated by the administrative subdivision
of the Southern Sudan region into three separate regions. Two separate
projects were established: one in the Equatoria Region with support from
ODA and one in the Bahr-el-Ghazal Region with IDA/IFAD support. These
changes simplified the complex design features of the original project
concept and an improvement in project implementation led IDA to agree to a
one-year project extension. Unfortunately, the unstable political
situation in the region made further implementation impossible and the
project effectively ended in 1984, with the IDA Credit being formally
closed on June 30, 1985.
iv.       The cost of the project is now estimated at US$39.8 million
instead of the US$56 million appraisal estimate. Disbursement of the IDA
Credit reached only 61% at Credit closing in June 1985. In the absence of
key data, it has not been possible to calculate the economic rate of return
on project Investments. However, given the deep-seated obstacles to
development in Southern Sudan, combined with the vroject's failure to



- ii -
develop adequate momentum prior to the resumption of military hostilities,
it is clear that the economic rate of return if calculated would be
negative.
v.        The design of the project at appraisal proved too large and
complex for implementatlon by an agency which itself was being strengthened
by the project. In addition to covering tn extensive geographical area, it
addressed a wide range of development constraints while improving the
performance of both the Regional Ministry of Agriculture and the Project
Development Unit (PDU). The project was also expected to coordinate the
efforts of several major donors. These tasks were obviously In excess of
the available implementation capacity.
vI.       The major lessons learnt are:
(a)   agricultural and rural development in an extensive and poorly
communicated area such as the Southern Sudan can be embarked upon
while simultaneously strengthening the implementing agency only
if the scope of the development activities is consistent with the
gradual Improvement of the agency's implementation capabilities
(paras. 3.05-3.09).
(b)   the experience with institutional performance on the project
indicates that a more workable framework, based on strengthening
of the regional Ministry of Agriculture, but chanelling
assistance to agricultural activities through smaller district-
based projects, would have achieved a larger impact on both the
institution building and agriculture support objectives (para.
3.20);
(c)   in designing a strategy for the development of Southern Sudan or
any similarly undeveloped region, careful consideration of the
serious economic, political, manpower and infrastructural
constraints to implementation Is essential to establishing the
scope of each stage of activities, and a long-term perspective of
the strategy's objectives should be maintained when dealing with
individual issues (para. 4.10);
(d)   projects which represent a second phase of an ongoing project and
for which they provide continuation of existing activites, should
provide interim financing betvreen closing of the first project
and effectiveness of the second, to avoid financing gaps and loss
of implementation momentum caused by delays in effectiveness and
start-up (para. 4.03);
(e)   careful balance of expatriate technical assistance staff and
senior qualified national staff in terms of numbers and terms of
employment is essential when comparatively large numbers of
expatriate staff are required for implementation and sources of
technical assistance personnel should be identified and evaluated
prior to project implementation to ensure comparative terms of
employment and sensitivity to potential sources of friction with
national staff (,aras. 4.08 and 4.09).



- ill -
vii.      The project was affected by causes foreign to ihe Inherent
constraints. However, a larger proportion of its objectives might have
been achieved by an earlier understanding perhaps from experience with the
predecessor project (Cr. 476-SU) of some of the problems encountered during
implementation.
viii.     The following points are of Interest:
-    availability of agronomic recommendations for the Floodplain led
to significant agricultural achievements in that area as compared
to the Ironstone Plateau for which no recommendations were
available (para. 3.05);
-    the number of smallholder coffee growers and the area under
cultivation incressed steadily during the SRAP, with production
rising by over 50% per year (para. 3.06);
-    failure of a cotton development program was caused by the
cancellation of a separate project, supported by another donor,
to strengthen the Equatoria Province Agricultural Projects
Corporation (EPAPC) (para. 3.07);
-    SRAP produced 53 reports on the natural resources, social
organization and economic conditions of the Southern Sudan Region
(para. 3.12);
-    failure to strengthen the force account construction agency was
partly compensated by increasing participation by private
building contractors, an indicator of the region's movement
towards development (para. 3.18);
-    delays in credit effectiveness and project start-up created a
financing gap between the earlier SRARP and the new SRAP with a
loss of momentum in most project activities which was difficult
to recover before the project was closed (paras. 4.02 and 4.12);
-    using a professional firm of consultants to provide a full team
of key technical assistance staff helped reduce severe managerial
problems (para. 4.10).



SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT (Cr. 904-SU)
Project Completion Report
I. INTRODUCTION
Project Objectives
1.01      The Southern Region Agriculture project (Cr. 904-SU) and its
predecessor, the Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
476-SU), represented the World Bank's involvemert in Southern Sudan's
agriculture during the only time of peace in that region's recent history.
The project's two fundamental objectives Included: (a) assisting in
completion of the institutional framework for agricultutral development
initiated in the earlier project and (b) helping smallholders to improve
crop output in areas of high potential, concentrating on crops with high
export value or capable of rapidly satisfying urban food demands.
1.02      The Southern Regional Government which came to power in April
1978, one month before project appraisal, endorsed the concept that
agricultural development should conform to a 15-20 year Regional Smallscale
Agricultural Development Program (RSADP) involving all 23 regional
districts. The objectives were consistent with these sectoral goals.
1.03      The project was expected to assist in the initiation of sound
agricultural development in all six provinces of the Southern Region and to
improve the incomes and diet of a large mass of farmers and pastoralists.
Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
1.04      The SRAP was formally identified during a March 1977 RWEA mid-
term review of the Southern Region Rehabilitation project. A Project Brief
proposed continuation of activities already started under the ongoing
project, with inclusion of some additional crops and expansion of the areas
to be served.
1.05      The project was prepared during the second half of 1977 and early
1978 by the Southern Region Ministry of Agriculture (SRMOA) with
substantial assistance from RMEA staff because of the limited capabilities
in the executing agency. The preparation report confirmed the project
brief's recommendations for continuing and expanding ongoing activities and
added components for the development of tea crops and forestry, and
supporting the Yambio Agricultural Research Center (YARC). A later
supplement to the preparation document proposed additional farmer and
tsetse fly control training centers, and a number of community centers in
crop and livestock areas. Total project cost was estimated at US$39.9
million.
1.06      Project appraisal took place in May 1978 and included
representatives from the United Kingdom and Federal Republic of Germany
foregn aid agencies, interested in participating in the project. To ensure



- 2 -
consistency In the approach of the major donors to the development of the
region, the Association developed a joint approach with ODA and GTZ, the
two bilateral agencies. Later IFAD was added and a larger-scope project
was designed encompassing all cofinancing.
1.07      The appraisal report followed preparation recommendations but
dropped some components (e.g. farmers' training and tsetse control training
centers) while adding others.  The concept of the RSADP (par8 1.02) was
Introduced and a Project Formulation Unit (PFU) was added to the existing
froject Development Unit to strengthen SRMOA's capacity to plan and manage
the development of the region as a whole. The project's total cost was
finally set at US$56 million of which the foreign exchange component was
US$40 million.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Components
2.01      Crop Development.  This component contemplated the continuation
and expansion of the ongoing food crop and smallholder rainfed coffee
development programs; expansion of cotton extension and spraying program;
support to improved seed multiplication for crops such as maize, groundnuts
and sorghum, and to food crop research emphasizing improvement of these
same crops. Food crop development concentrated on two major centers -
Equatoria Province and Bahr-el-Ghazal Province -  serving as a base of
operation for activities in six districts.  Smallholder rainfed coffee was
to be expanded from 3,500 feddans (1,470 ha) to 6,500 feddans (2,730 ha).
Included in the component were medium-term credit for smallholder coffee
farmers, staff training and research support for the Equatoria Province
Agricultural Production Corporation.
2.02      Livestock Services.  Included in this component were support for
the Livestock Production Center established under the earlier project, as
well as initiating a pilot dairy ranching scheme geared to supply low cost
milk and milk products to urban centers; strengthening of the Animal
Resources Department of the SRMOA, particularly in the coordination with
its veterinary field services, provision of capital, operating expenditures
and technical staff for the three veterinary laboratories established under
the earlier project, and support for the livestock marketing system,
Including technical assistance and purchase of a barge to transport
livestock on the White Nile. A range ecology survey tc determine rangeland
types and their present use was also to be funded.
2.03      Institutic-nal Support.  One of the project's major objectives was
to establish a Proje.;t Formulation Unit (PFU) in the SRMOA to prepare
district development plans, oversee the RSADP and run the monitoring and
evaluation unit established under the rehabilitation project. Five
cooperative marketing and development teams were established and the
Project Development Unit (PDU), established under the earlier project, was
to be strengthened with staff, buildings, supplies and vehicles. Funds for
future project preparation and to undertake special studies related to the
agricultural development of the region were provided to the SRMOA under
this component.



- 3 -
2.04      Extension and Training.  Two extension units, one in each of the
two maJor centers, were to be established and each provided with a
nutritionlst. Agricultural training was to be expanded by providing 44
man-years of scholarships and short-toem training courses and by funding
teaching staff and operating costs to a training school for stockmen,
allowing training of about 75 stockmen annually. Also a Development
Support Media Section was to be established to assist crop, livestock and
nutrition extension services, train junior level employees and promote
inter-agency cooperation.
2.05      Civil Works.  The project area infrastructure was to be
strengthened by supporting the Building Unit, established as part of the
PDU under the rehabilitation project, through provision of staff, a
workshop and stores, an office and a drilling rig to drill and equip about
20 wells. The Secondary and Feeder Road Unit in the PDU was to be
expanded, equipped and staffed to rahabilitate about 560 km of feeder roads
and to maintain the improved network. In addition, four 200-ton district
stores and fifty 40-ton distribution stores for the buying and selling of
produce and input supplies were to be constructed under the project. All
civil works construction was to be completed and the feeder road
construction teams but in operation within a period of four years.
Organization apd Management
2.06      The Southern Region Ministry of Agriculture (SRMOA) was
designated executing agency. The PDU, was responsible for implementing the
various components with the exception of the veterlaary services and animal
health program which was the responsibility of the SRMOA's Department of
Animal Resources, and the running of the Malakal Stockman Training School,
under the ministry's Deputy Director of Research and Training. The PDU, as
the major implementing unit, already operated on a relatively autonomous
basis and the maintenance of its autonomy and flexibility while improving
administration and logistical support was a major concern during project
implementation.
2.07      The planning and coordination of all RSADP activities were to be
the responsibility of the Chief Planning Adviser in the SRMOA, with
assistance from the PFU to be created under the project. A new RSADP
Executive Committee was to replace the existing PDU Executive Committee
established under the rehabilitation project. This new committee,
reporting to the Minister of Agriculture, was to be responsible for
overseeing project implementation.
2.08      The Project Director ir the FDU and his deputy were to be
assisted by two Assistants, one in each major center. Technical
supervision of the project components was to be the responsibility of six
divisions in the PDU, including Finance and Administration, Crop
Development, Rural Services, Veterinary Services, Livestock Production and
Construction Services.



-4 -
III. PROJECT EVALUATION
General Assessment
3.01      Overview.  The project was unsuccessful partly because of
inherent problems related to design and difficulties encountered in
staffing key positions, but largely due to the unstable political situation
during the latter part of the implementation period.
3.02      The per.ormance of the various project components varied.  In
terms of institutional objectives and agricultural development, come sub-
components, e.g. the planning capability support and the food crop and
coffee development, recorded significant progress.  By 1983, Government and
the donor agencies agreed to divide the project into two separate projects,
and the administrative division of the Southern Region into three
individual regions. Implementation of the project components began to
improve because of the reduction in scope and removal of some of the major
constraints. Of the two projects resulting from this sub-division, one
covered the Equatoria Region with ODA support while the other was
concentrated on the Bahr-el-Ghazal Region and was assisted by IDA and IFAD.
3.03      The improvement in project performance in the Bahr-el-Ghazal
project led donor agencies to agree to a one year extension beyond June
1984 and to consider a follow-up project. The deteriorating political
situation prevented further progress.
3.04      The project failed to achieve number of its objectives but had
some success with some of its components once adjustments were made in the
project scope.
Agricultural Development Objectives
3.05      Crop production.  Food crop development, which had proved to be
one of the most successful components of the rehabilitation project, was
continued under the SRAP with satisfactory results although some of the
momentum of the earlier project had been lost. Crop trials which suffered
a reduction in the number of sub-stations during 1982, eventually had the
reduction reversed after staffing improvements in 1983. The seed
production sub-component was one of the best performers in the project with
the farm well managed and a sustained operation of the innovative
smallholder contract grower system for groundnuts and sorghum begun under
the earlier project. The total area of arable land in the crop station was
increased to 490 feddans (205.8 ha) during the latter part of the
implementation period. The lack of agronomic recommendations for the
Ironstone Plateau and Floodplain, where one of the two major centers was
located in comparison with the Greenbelt area served by the second center,
resulted in uneven achievements for the two areas, although some useful
on-station trials were carried out in the former center.
3.06      The smallholder coffee program continued to perform well under
SRAP. The number of growers and the area under cultivation increased
steadily over the second project's life, with production rising by over 50%
per year from 1978 onwards. The main reasons for its success were the



-5-
attractive market prices which made the program financially sound, the
simplicity of its design with emphasis on rainfed production, and the
satisfactory management of the supply of inputs, mainly seedlings and
hand tools.
3.07      The cotton program failed to make a headstart.  At appraisal, the
proposal for support to the spraying program under SRAP had been based on
the premise that a separate project supported by another donor would
strengthen the Equatoria Province Agricultural Projects Corporation
(EPAPC). This assistance did not materialize and in 1983, Government and
the donor agencies for SRAP agreed to transfer all responsibility for
cotton promotion and development to EPAPC.
3.08      Livestock Development.  The approach to livestock develor-ient had
not been well established at the time of appraisal and a Livestocl
*       Component Review undertaken in 1980 had changed some of the key features of
this component. In contrast with the appraisal proposal that the project
limit its role in vaccination services to the supplies and logistics
required by the Veterinary Department, the 1980 review proposed an
alternative approach to strengthen local veterinary offices on a district-
by-district basis, as well as building up in the Veterinary Department a
capacity to respond to outbreaks of animal disease. Before Government
accepted this approach in 1983, a disease survey had already been conducted
in the Bahr-el-Ghazal Province in 1979-81 with GTZ support.
3.09      A main livestock development center for Southern Sudan
established by the rehabilitation project at Marial Bai and equipped with
basic infrastructure as well as supplied with cross-breeding stock from
northern Sudan and Kenya, fluctuated in its performance during project
performance largely due to difficulties in senior staffing. By 1983, staff
strength reached a level sufficient to ensure continuing progress. The
only aspect of this development center to show steady progress was the
dairy, based on cross-bred stock and under which financial support was
provided for a pilot smallholder dairy scheme set up as an outreach from a
former UNDP/FAO dairy project.
3.10      The project provided for assistance in developing a livestock
marketing policy for the region, as well as for a river barge to relieve
the transport constraint. A condition of disbursement against this sub-
component was that a parastatal livestock marketing agency, possibly a
branch of the Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC), be set up in
the region. The 1980 livestock review agreed with Government in focusing
attention on the operation of the private sector rather than becoming
involved in commercial-type activities. A strategy was prepared and
although its infrastructural proposals were not implemented, it remains a
useful starting point for future livestock development.
Institutional Objectives
3.11      Planning.  One of the major objectives of the SRAP was to
strengthen the Regional Ministry's capacity to plan and execute
agricultural and rural development in the Southern Region. During project
implementation, progress was made in refining an agricultural development



- 6 -
strategy for the region. Three District Development Plans were prepared
from the six originally envisaged, while preparatory studies were carried
out for two others. A significant step taken during implementation was the
merger of the Planning Department of SRMOA and the newly created Project
Formulation Unit (PFU), originally two separate and distinct entities.
This merger was agreed by Government and the donor agencies as an effort to
strengthen SRMOA to the fullest extent possible.
3.12      An additional function of the planning component was to provide
support to PDU in drawing up annual work plans and budgets and in preparing
studies and reports related to the development of the region. Overall, 53
reports were prepared between 1980 and 1984 which together represents a
unique and valuable body of knowledge about the natural resources, social
organization and economic conditions cf the region.
3.13      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation of PDU's
field activities was an additional and important planning function
supported by SRAP. Performance in this activity was disappointing and the
paucity of progress reports produced resulted in wide areas of ignorance
about project impact and loss of opportunity to learn from implementation
experience for the benefit of future development efforts in the region.
3.14      Technical Assistance.  The achievements recorded in the
agricultural and planning components, as well as the important shortfalls
and delays in the implementation of some of their functions are strongly
related to the success or failure in the recruitment of suitable expatriate
technical assistance staff. The recruitment task was enormous. Of 67
technical assistance posts envisaged at appraisal, about 40 were to be
hired directly by the project with 19 posts envisaged at appraisal to be
filled by ODA and GTZ and 5 posts recruited by the Agricultural Development
Service (ADS). After several unsuccessful recruitment efforts made by
individual direct-hire, the Government in 1983 approached an Australian
firm of consultants to provide a full team. This approach was highly
successful and was largely responsible for the improvement of project
performance ratings by subsequent supervision missions.
3.15      Training.  The project, with ODA financing, successfully expanded
a training center established in the region by the Rehabilitation project,
providing it with the required facilities to become an Agricultural
Training Institute. Curricula were developed for this center to enable it
to provide certificate-level training.
3.16      Overseas training totalling 88 man-years of fellowships, 44 more
than the appraisal estimate, were provided under the project with financing
from IDA/IFAD supple'mented by ODA. By late 1982, 56 man-years of
fellowships had been completed, 45 financed by IDA/IFAD and 11 by ODA,
involving a wide range of key disciplines and technical skills and the
program was proceeding satisfactorily when project activities were
stopped. A Training Committee, consisting of SRMOA and PDU staff, was
established, and dealt effectively with a wide range of difficult training
issues.



- 7 -
3.17      The lack of proper monitoring during implementation or after
project closing makes it impossible to assess the impact of SRAP-related
training. However, there is little doubt that improved performance during
the 1983-1984 period was in part due to a better trained national staff
assisted by a larger and more effective technical assistance. The final
assignment of trained staff after project activities were stopped is not
known.
Civil Works
3.18      The construction goals of SRAP were ambitious, with 72 houses for
senior, middle and junior staff to be constructed during the first year of
implementation. This tsrget was meant to compensate for lack of housing
during the earlier project which had represented a serious constraint to
staff recruitment and a source of low morale. To achieve this goal, a much
expanded Construction Service Division was established under SRAP, but
problems of recruitment and procurement continued to render it inadequate
for the task. Fortunately, in the intervening years, additional building
contractors had begun to work in Southern Sudan and some buildings, notably
staff houses and a training center were built by these private
contractors. The construction program, however, had fallen short of its
objectives Tsith only 25% of its physical targets achieved.
Financial and Economic Analysis
3.19      Project Costs.  Total project costs are estimated to have been
about US$39.8 million, in comparison with appraisal estimates of US$56
million. The influence of inflation assumptions on these figures has not
been estimated as the totals themselves are largely conjectural. Actual
cost by component could not be ascertained for this report. Owing to
weaknesses in the accounting section of the PDU, the management accounting
system designed for the project could not be implemented. Routine reports
showing expenditures by project component were never made and, although it
would have been possible to reconstruct estimates from project records, the
Project Completion Report (PCR) mission that would have undertaken this
task had to be cancelled because of lack of security in the region.  The
best estimates available of actual costs by donor source are as follows:
Appraisal         Estimated
Estimate            Actual
----US$'000-
IDA                            15,000             9,100
IFAD                           15,000            12,000
ODA                            18,500            14,800
GTZ                             1,900             1,900
Government of Sudan             5,600             2,000
3.20      In summary, it is evident that while taken individually, each
component of the project, both in terms of development activities and of
managerial procedures were adequately designed. Implementation of the
overall effort became too complex for the executing agency's capacity, even



-8-
though supported by a substantial amount of technical assistance. A less
centralized institutional framework, including the strengthening of SRMOA,
particularly in its planning capacities, but chanelling the assistance to
specific development activities through less ambitious and more cohesive
projects with a district rather than regional base, would in all
probability have achieved a larger proportion of the project's objectives
within the same period of implementation. This was not possible because of
the security situation.
3.21      Economic Rate of Return.  Despite the unavailability of key data,
it is clear that the economic rate of return of the project, if calculated,
would be negative. For most project components, significant economic
benefits cannot be expected from the substantial investments that were
made. The underlying causes of these negative results were the persistence
of deep-seated obstacles to development in the Southern Sudan, combined
with the project's fa.Lure to develop adequate momentum prior to the
resumption of military hostilities.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS
Development Strategy
4.01      The majority of the problems met during project implementation
appear to have risen from an under-estimation of the severe economic,
political, manpower and infrastructural constraints to be faced. In the
light of these constraints, most of the project's objectives could only be
expected to be achieved in the long-term, while short-term perspectives
tended to create frustration in both the national and expatriate
implementing staff. A clear recognition of the obstacles to development
and establishment of the long-term goals sought should be the basis on
which any future project of this type should be designed.
Effectiveness and Start-Up
4.02      The project was not declared effective until February 14, 1980,
nine months after signature of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA),
because the National Assembly, which had to approve the project, was in
long recess and the Attorney General could not issue a legal opinion. To
avoid the serious effects of a financial gap between the earlier
Rehabilitation project and the new SRAP, IFAD made available an advance of
US$200,000 in August 1979, while ODA provided some grant funds for project
components to which the agency was not committed. Even with this
assistance, all but the highest priority expenditures were halted, severely
disrupting ongoing programs.
4.03      A further, though unrelated, difficulty for all development
programs in the region, was the closure of the Uganda border cutting the
route over which 90% of the project's supplies passed and seriously
affecting project implementation.
4.04      The financing gap caused the development activities to lose the
substantial momentum they had achieved by 1978, affecting the morale of the
national staff and causing a number of expatriate technical assistance



-9 -
staff not to renew their contracts. In sulmmary, this disastrous start for
the new project had resulted from a schedule that allowed Insufficient
margin for delay and which, after slipping then by several months, had a
severe negative impact on the early Implementation of SRAP.
Procurement
4.05      The lack of a working system for the procurement of supplies had
possibly been the single most serious constraint to implementation of the
Rehabilitation project. For a project with the larger scope of SRAP, the
problem could be expected and in fact became more acute, particularly as
the project like its predecessor, relied mainly on supplies purchased in
*   Kenya.  This country was itself in serious foreign exchange crisis and
consequently, long delays and high costs were inevitable.
*   4.06      The project appraisal had provided for an expatriate Procurement
Specialist and in 1980, after approval by the Executive Committee, an ADS
staff member was appointed. However, this official did not take up his
post until 1983, two years after project effectiveness. In 1981, the
Government had also agreed to use a procurement agency and one based in The
Netherlands was selected. As a result of these changes, some improvements
were recorded In procurement and in 1983, a joint donor supervision mission
Identified more effective procurement as one of the main factors in
explaining a significant upturn in project performance.
Technical Assistance
4.07      Under the Rehabilitation project, difficulties related to
recruitment of expatriate staff and in-country management of expatriate
personnel had included: inability to fill some key posts; discontent among
bome expatriates as a result of widely diverse terms of employment; low
professional level resulting from uncompetitive terms offered by the
*   project, and a large proportion of time spent by the project's management
in dealing with personnel matters.
4.08      Under SRAP, the task of recruiting expatriates was enormous.  The
fact that there was no provision in the DCA stipulating that a satisfactory
recruitment system should be in place, greatly reduced the Association's
effective influence on this matter.
4.09      The above difficulties were further compounded by the imbalance
between expatriate staff and senior qualified national staff, both in terms
of numbers and of levels of remuneration, control of scarce resources and
other not infrequent sources of friction. While many of these problems are
unavoidable, they can be minimized by early attention to their potential
appearance and by steps such as an active training and staff-development
program for national staff, proft -sionally organized recruitment of
expatriate and promotion of maiagement styles in both the project and the
sponsoring agency that emphasizes collaboration and sensitivity to
potential areas of friction.
4.10      After several attempts to identify candidates for key posts and
direct recruitment by the project of expatriates who, in some instances,



- 10 -
performed well but in others did not, a firm of consultants was approached
in 1983 to provide a full team for key positions. This approach was
implemented with satisfactory results.
Construction
4.11      Problems of construction plagued the project from its start,
largely because of the weakness of the Construction Services Division of
the SRMOA and the inability of Management to recruit a suitable Chief Civil
Works Engineer. The few achievements in construction were in housing and
in a training center and were due to the increasing participation of
private contractors instead of the forced account envisaged during project
appraisal.
Project Financing
4.12      Financing arrangements were unduly complicated and did nothing to
ease the job of record-keeping by the project staff. SRAP was in part
jointly financed by IDA and IFAD and partly parallel-financed by ODA. The
result was a substantial overlap between the various financing sources with
some operating costs for different equipment at the same location being met
by different funding sources. Strict accountability, especially of ODA
funds, could not be maintained under these circumstances. It should have
been possible to devise a simpler financing plan than the one that was
adopted.
4.13      Some disruption to project implementation was caused by a three-
month suspension of the IDA/IFAD funds in 1981. Although this suspension
was fully justified by the non-repayment by Sudan of funds owed to the two
organizations, its impact on project implementation caused additional
uncertainty at a time when prospects for a successful achievement of the
project's objectives were, in any case, poor.
V. ASSESSMENT OF BANK PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
5.01      The appraisal report is well written and provided a reasonable
approach to regional agricultural development of the Southern Sudan. The
scope of the project, however, was too ambitious, particularly in light of
the still weak stage of the regional institutions and the vast geographical
area covered by the project's activities. This was clearly illustrated by
the improved performance resulting from the administrative division of the
region into three separate regions and the subsequent partition of the
project into two separate projects.
5.02      The project had set out to address a wide range of development
constraints in the agricultural sector and had to operate in five of the
six provinces of the region. In addition, it had to coordinate the efforts
of several major donors by including their activities within a single
management structure and with shared support services. It was, therefore,
inevitably large by Southern Sudan standards both in terms of resources and
of professional and technical staff.



- 11 -
5.03      Project supervision monitored implementation problems closely and
it was a problem project from its early stages. The supervision missions
acknowledged improvements in project performance as a consequence of the
reduction in scope. The nature of the major problems, however, escaped
solution through supervisory decisions, particularly the recruitment of
suitable technical and managerial assistance.
5.04      The main lessons learned under the project are as follows:
(a)   agricultural and rural development in an extensive and poorly
communicated area such as the Southern Sudan can be embarked upon
while simultaneously strengthening the implementing agency only
if the scope of the development activities is consistent with the
gradual improvement of the agency's implementation capabilities
(paras. 3.05-3.09).
(b)   the experience with institutional performance of the project
indicates that a more workable framework, based on strengthening
of the regional Ministry of Agriculture, but chanelling
assistance to agricultural activities through smaller district-
based projects, would have achieved a larger impact on both the
institution building and agriculture support objectives (para.
3.20);
(c)   in designing a strategy for the development of Southern Sudan or
any similarly undeveloped region, careful consideration of the
serious economic, political, manpower and infrastructural
constraints to implementation is essential to establishing the
scope of each stage of activities, and a long-term perspective of
the strategy's objectives should be maintained when dealing with
individual issues (para. 4.10);
(d)   projects which represent a second phase of an ongoing project and
for which they provide continuation of existing activites, should
provide interim financing between closing of the first project
*                and effectiveness of the second, to avoid financing gaps mnd loss
of implementation momentum caused by delays in effectiveneiss and
start-up (para. 4.03);
(e)   careful balance of expatriate technical assistance staff and
senior qualified national staff in terms of numbers and terms of
employment are essential when comparatively large numbers of
expatriate staff are required for implementation. Sources of
technical assistance personnel should be identified and evaluated
prior to project implementation to ensure comparative terms of
employment and sensitivity to potential sources of friction with
national staff (paras. 4.08 and 4.09).
5.05      In retrospect, there are strong indications that by the time the
project's activities had to be stopped because of political instability in
the region, some substantial steps had been taken to overcome some of the
major problems faced in the period of implementation, in particular the
establishment of a satisfactory team of expatriate technical assistance



- 12 -
staff and improvement of procurement procedures. The decision by
Government to divide the region in three distinct regions and the
subsequent splitting of the project into two separate projects, with the
IDA/IFAD-assisted components concentrating on the Bahr-el-Ghazal region
provided a reduction in scope that would have contributed strongly to allow
the project to achieve many of its objectives, had it been possible to
continue implementation.



- 13 -
ANNEX A
Table I
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT (Cr. 904-SU)
Prolect Completion Report
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(US$ million)
Original
Allocation     Actual Use
US$     2      US$      %
Vehicles and Equipment                        1.4     9     1.0      7
Experts and Consultant Services              4.0    27      2.1     14
Operating Cocts, including
local salaries                             3.0    20      4.5     30 d/
Civil Works                                  1.0      7     0.7      5
Credit to Farmers
Coffee hullers                              - a/           -       -
Haize shellers, rice threshers,
and ox-drawn equipment                    - b/           -       -
Livestock Marketing
Vehicles and Equipment                     0.6      4      -       -
Expert and consultant services             0.7      5      -       -
Operating costs, including
local salaries                           0.7     5       -       -
Initial Advance under Section 2.02 (c)       1.0      7     0.8      5
Unallocated                                  2.6    16       -       -
TOTAL                                  15.0   100      9.1 c/   61
-       -        - 
a/  $62,000 in SDR equivalent.
b/ $234,000 in SDR equ~ valent.
c/ $5,884,397.03 were cancelled from the credit.
d/ Despite disbursement of only 61% of the Credit, cost overrun of this
component was about 50%; in the absence of project records, it has not
been possible to determine the reasons for it.



- 14 -
ANNEX A
Table 2
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT (Cr. 904-SU)
Project Completion Report
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ militon)
Appraisal Estimate                        Actual
% of                                  Z of
Annual    Cumulative         Credit       Annual    Cumulative    Credit
1980           2.4           2.4              16           1.5        1.5            10
1981           3.1           5.5              37           2.0        3.5            23
1982           5.4           8.9              59           1.6        5.1            34
1983           3.4          12.3              82           1.8        6.9           46
1984           2.7          15.0             100           2.0        8.9           59
1985            -             -               -            0.4        9.3           62
1986            -             -               -           (0.2)/a    9.1 /b         61
/a  Repayment of US$200,000 of initial IDA advance provided to Borrower in 1980.
/b US$5,884.397.03 of the Credit was cancelled.



- 15 -
ANNEX B
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT (Cr. 904-SU)
Project Completion Report
Compliance With Major Covenants Provided For In The
Development Credit Agreement
Section 3.01 (d)
Borrower shall establish a Project ExccutiX'e Committee.  The Executive
Committee was established but rarely met.
*         Section 3.02
Recruitment of technical assistance on terms acceptable to IDA. Some
improvement took place, but terms of employment were not competitive
internationally.
Section 3.04 (d)
Regular progress reports on the project will be provided. Not complied
with.
Section 3.06
A radio link will be maintained with Nairobi and yearly landing permits
will be issued for charter aircraft.
Radio link established. Yearly landing permits not issued.
.
Section 3.07
*         Accounts to be audited within six months of the end of each financial year.
Audits prepared late.
Section 4.07
Borrower to appoint a Director General of the Ministry of Agriculture
acceptable to IDA.
complied with.



2'                                            SUDAN   2                                                -,
Southern Region
CROP DIS-                                     RAINFALL, AND ECOLOGICAL ZONES  >-
R  Rice           M  Maize                           Central ralniands        -      Main roase                      Average
CHA,   K  Ka              C  cotton                           -d reion                O ther roods                         .91 i931 r i960.
CHAD;    TE                    CF  Cotte                       /  ironstone plateu         .     *Railws                        in millimneters
Mechniz       OS  Oil 1100ft                      Central hills            -     Rivers
h          SC  Sugar cone                 1   Grown belt                   -       c4lstibosldU
vot*.* Soq    TO  Toioocro                        Southetern plains       -*-International boundoaries
SwOmmianFi ................. ,,*e55. = Mountain slopes and hills    U KJ
th  M*M                         H~~~~~~~~~~igh altitude areas
C E N T R A L ~ ~      ~            ~           ~            ~           ~          ~           ~          ~         /             lE    IP
A F R I C A NHR 
0W
MAILES
0            100         200           300
XILOMETE3S
241
AFRICA
, Wf- o\t4f w- YA GAD
W~~~~~~~~_ ..S ~



