Document of
The World Bank   FILE Cr Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2356a-SU
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 26, 1979
Northern Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =    Sudanese Pounds (bSd)  =  100 piasters
US$1.00            =    bSd 0.50
1-Sd 1.00          =    US$2.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (f)      =    1.04 acres         =   0.42 hectares
1 short ton (t)   =    2,000 pounds       =   0.9 metric tons
ABBREVIATIONS
ADS      -   Agricultural Development Service, World Bank
CBPP     -   Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
EPAPC    -   Equatoria Province Agricultural Production Corporation
FAO      -   Food and Agriculture Organization
GTZ      -   Technical Assistance Agency, Federal Republic of Germany
HS       -   Haemorrhagic Septicaemia
IDA      -   International Development Association
IFAD     -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
MOA      -   Regional Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MCTS     -   Regional Ministry of Cooperatives, Trade and Supply
ODM      -   United Kingdom's Ministry of Overseas Development
PDU      -   Project Development Unit
PFU      -   Project Formulation Unit
RP       -   Rinderpest
RSADP    -   Regional Smallscale Agriculture Development Program
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
*              I.    BACKGROUND                       1....................       ....     ....           1
A.    General  ...................................                                  1
B.    The Regional Agriculture Sector  ....................                        2
II.    THE REGIONAL SMALLSCALE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM   *................................................                        7
III.    THE PROJECT  ...........0 .....................                                      8
A.    General Description .               ..........................    .....       8
B.   Detailed Features ...o ............... 0 .................                   11
IV.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ................o .......                             19
A.    Project Cost Estimates  ....... ........               o   ...........      19
B.    Financing                                       ............. o .....       21
C.    Implications  for Government Budget                                         22
D.    Procurement  . ...... ..... ...  ... . ... ........ . . .. .......... .     22
E.    Project Implementation Chart and Disbursements  ..o..                       23
F.    Accounts,  Audits and Reports  .......................                      25
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    ......              ........ ......                 25
A.    Background .......................................... .............         25
B.    RSADP Coordination  ........ . . . . . ....................... ..... ...    26
C.    Project Coordination and Implementation  ............                       27
D.    Staffing ............................................. 0...........         29
VI.    CROP AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION, MARKETS,  PRICES AND
FARMER BENEFITS ...................................                               30
A.    Crops ...BLiv..........................................                     30
B.    Livestock                         ... o......................................  34
C.    Farmer Benefits  ......... .. . . .   .........   ......................... .....  35
D.    Environmental Impact  ...            ..............................         36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .....................   36
A.   Economic Analysis ..................................   36
B.   Project  Risks         ......................................  37
VIII.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ..........................   38
LIST OF CHARTS AND TABLES
CHART NO.
1.  Project Implementation Schedule
2.   Ministry of Agriculture - Organization Chart
3.   Project Development Unit - Organization Chart
TABLE NO.
1.  Project Cost Summary by Component
2.   Proposed Financing Table
3.   Summary of Technical Assistance Requirements
4-6. Farm Models
7.  Volume of Incremental Crop Production
8.   Economic Analysis
9.   Government Cash Flow
APPENDICES
A.   Table of Contents of Implementation Volume
B.   Documents in Project File
MAPS
1.  Crop Distribution, Rainfall and Ecological Zones -  IBRD 13902
2.  Population Density                                -  IBRD 13904
3.  Cattle Distribution and Project Livestock
Facilities                                       -  IBRD 13903
4.  Main Transportation Network                       -  IBRD 13901
5.  Marial Bai Ranch and Dairy                        - IBRD 13905
6.  Administrative Divisions                          -  IBRD 14186
The proposed Project was prepared by Government with the assistance of the
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA). This report is based on the find-
ings on an appraisal mission which visited Sudan in May/June 1978 composed of
Messrs. J.F.A. Russell, K. Niemann (IDA); G. Kerkhoven and E. Ariza-Nino (IDA
Consultants), D. Bradfield and J. Wiseman (ODM Consultants), C. Loehr (GTZ)
and J. Claus (GTZ Consultant).



SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. General
1.01      The Sudan, the largest country in Africa, covers about 2.5 million
km . The population of some 17 million is growing at a rate of 2.5% per year;
and per capita GNP is presently estimated at US$300. The agriculture sector
dominates the economy, providing a livelihood for 80% of the population and
contributing 40% of GDP, 95% of exports and directly and indirectly over 50%
of Government revenues.
1.02      The economy's growth over the past 50 years has been mainly derived
from irrigation development on the Nile, largely for cotton production, but
more recently also groundnuts, wheat and sugarcane. A second spur to expansion
occurred with development of large scale rainfed mechanized production of
sorghum since the early 50's. Both these developments have been concentrated
around the confluence of the Niles and the adjoining clay plains of East
Central Sudan; thus modern sector development stands in strong contrast to
largely subsistence traditional agriculture in the more remote areas of the
west and south.
1.03      The northern third of the country is largely desert, and according
to Bank estimates the remaining two thirds contain some 85 million feddan of
arable land (only 25% of which is utilized), 240 million feddan of grazing
land, and 60 million feddan of natural forest. The country also supports a
large livestock population (15 million cattle, 16 million sheep, 11 million
goats and 2 million camels) which is almost all owned by transhumant pastoral-
ists, and has considerable potential for increased productivity. The country
has thus considerable underutilized livestock and land resources and its
proximity to Middle East markets places it in a favourable position to expand
its exports.
B.  The Regional Agriculture Sector
2
1.04      The Southern Region comprising six provinces covers 650,000 km
about one quarter of Sudan's total area, but still for example 11% larger
than Kenya.  With 3 to 4 million people, it has a fifth o°  the country's
population, but the density is just over 5 persons per km . The majority
of the people live at subsistence level and per capita GNP is probably about
US$80, less than a third of the national average. The civil disturbances
between 1955 and 1972 caused considerable disruption of economic activity,



- 2 -
and the displacement of large numbers of the population. Since the end of
hostilities, priority has been given to repairing and expanding infrastruc-
ture, and to developing smallholder farming as the quickest method of raising
the standard of living of the majority of the population.
Ecology
1.05      Southern Sudan has mainly savannah and forest vegetation with an
annual rainfall varying from 700 - 1,600 mm. It can be broadly divided into
three zones:
(a)  the Equatorial Zone, with a rainfall of 900 - 1,600 mm
spread over 6 - 9 months, has the most favourable climate
for agriculture especially in the wetter Greenbelt compared
to the drier lateritic Ironstone Plateau. A wide variety
of crops can be grown, but livestock is restricted by
tsetse fly infestation;
(b)  the Floodplains, with an annual rainfall of 800 - 1,000 mm,
extend over half the Region, are often permanently or
seasonally flooded and have a mainly transhumant pastoral
economy; and
(c)  the Central Rainland Zone with rainfall of 700 - 800 mm
spread over 4 - 5 months. Crop production is limited to
short-term grains and oilseeds, and transhumant livestock
production is also important.
Crop Production
1.06      The large majority of farmers are dependent on subsistence cereal
and oilseed crops. The total crop area is estimated at 1.9 million feddan
of which 0.9 million is under sorghum, 0.3 million groundnuts, 0.2 million
sesame and 0.1 each of cassava, finger millet, pearl millet, maize and beans.
Since many of these are grown in mixtures, the total area under production
may be lower. Crop yields are low, reflecting a lack of both modern tech-
nology and the market incentive needed to promote this. Shifting cultivation
is widespread, soil preparation is by hand tools, which themselves are scarce
due both to poor communication and foreign exchange problems. Little or no
use is made of pesticides, and improved seed, mainly for maize, groundnuts and
sorghum, is only just becoming available.
1.07      In the Greenbelt area, both coffee for export to the North, and
cotton supporting a local cloth industry are important; in some specific
localities both tea and tobacco are grown. Other crops on special schemes
include rice, sugar and kenaf. Some upland rice is grown in Western Equatoria,
and there is further potential for rice on streams flowing from the Ironstone
Plateau to the Floodplain areas. While these high value crops are grown in
specific areas, most farmers can at present only grow traditional cereal and
oilseed crops. The first essential is to satisfy subsistence needs of the
farmer and his family, so that productivity can improve with improved nutrition.



Once this is achieved in the Greenbelt either coffee or cotton can be added
to cereals and oilseeds as valuable cash crops; but on the Ironstone Plateau,
in the absence of improved sorghum varieties, the best potential lies in
increased groundnut production. Where there is no tsetse hazard, the use of
oxen can contribute significantly to reducing critical period labour require-
ments to improve crop productivity by more timely cultural practices.
Livestock Production
1.08      A recent census indicates that the Region has about 5.5 million
cattle, 3 million sheep and 2 million goats mainly owned by transhumant pas-
toralists. Very little information exists on either distribution or incidence
of disease, but rinderpest (RP), contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP),
haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS), trypanosomiasis, anthrax and foot and mouth
disease continue to cause serious losses. Commercial offtake rates are
estimated at only 3 to 4% due to poor health status, high home consumption,
pastoralists' low cash requirements and the lack of market incentives. The
Region's advantage over the North is an abundant range resource, as the range
and livestock numbers are still in ecological balance. Given the low level of
productivity there is considerable scope for a marked production increase, but
improved marketing must go hand in hand with improved animal health to
capitalize on potential increased offtake.
Development Constraints
1.09      The sheer size of the area, the scattered population and the paucity
of communications infrastructure are major constraints. River transport, which
should be the major economic lifeline, is run very inefficiently by an anti-
quated monopoly River Transport Corporation; railway services to Wau suffer
from insufficient rolling stock and poor management. The roadlink to the
North is only in operation 3-4 months a year, so most imports come from
Mombasa through Kenya and Uganda. Internal roads are few and suffer from lack
of maintenance, while air services are unrealiable. To this must be added:
-    the lack of baseline data for planning;
-    the shortage of trained manpower, and of educational
facilities;
-    constant fuel shortages, further impairing project
implementation;
-    lack of coordination and thus some duplication of effort
by different agencies assisting Government;
-    the weakness or non existence of appropriate institutions; and
-    financial constraints through shortage of foreign exchange
and unrealistically large budget allocations in a situation
where funds are not available, causing too many development
schemes to be started and then not effectively implemented.



-4-
Institutions
1.10      The Southern Region Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MOA) 1/ is responsible for agricultural development in the Region. In mid
1977 only 42% of posts were filled (239 staff against an establishment of
572), and due to the financial and transport constraints even many of those
are underutilized. MOA is projected to have about 90 professional vacancies
by 1980, of which 23 would be filled by graduates due to return from Khartoum
and other universities. In addition, the new Juba University, which includes
an Agricultural Faculty opened in 1978, would graduate its first students in
1982, thereby alleviating the shortfall at the professional level. The Yambio
Agricultural Institute graduates 30 diplomates each year, with an average of
10 more per annum from Shambat in the North. Furthermore, plans are proposed
to expand output with other donor assistance. The Ministry of Trade and
Supply (MCTS) Cooperatives, responsible for cooperatives, rural water supplies
and community development likewise has little capacity to implement its plans,
and the few existing producer cooperatives find MCTS unable to fulfill its
promises of assistance. The Equatoria Province Agricultural Production
Corporation (EPAPC) is responsible for cotton buying and has ginning, spinning
and weaving facilities at Nzara (near Yambio) as well as oil processing, soap
making, coffee plantation and sawmilling activities. Poor management with
control vested in a holding company in Khartoum, compounded by financial
constraints, fuel shortages and old equipment has led to generally poor per-
formance. Steps are underway to have EPAPC severed from its Khartoum based
holding company. At present no agricultural credit facilities exist in the
Region, though a Cooperative Bank is being established and the Agricultural
Bank of Sudan expects to open a branch in Juba soon.
Ongoing Projects in the Smallholder Sector
1.11      The Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation project estimated
to cost US$12.6 million was funded by IDA (US$10.7 million; Credit No. 476-SU)
and started in 1974. Additional parallel financing was provided by ODM
for internationally recruited staff and feeder road construction equipment.
A complementary cattle vaccination campaign was funded by the Federal Republic
of Germany. The aim was to increase smallholder production of foodcrops,
primarily sorghum, maize and groundnuts to improve nutrition and reduce
dependence on food imports. Cash incomes were to be increased through the
development of cotton and coffee as cash crops, and through the sale of
surplus food crops. Production of livestock was to be increased primarily
through the cattle vaccination campaign.
1.12      The project started slowly, due to problems of staff recruitment
and the effect of the many constraints discussed in previous paragraphs.
However, a sound infrastructure base has been established through the project
headquarters in Juba, the main crop station at Yei and sub-centers at Maridi,
1/   In February 1979 the Ministry was reorganized and community development
and rural water supplies were added to its portfolio.



Yambio, Torit and Rumbek. An appropriate program of crop trials has been
started and seed production of improved varieties of groundnuts, maize and
sorghum is now progressing well with some 175 tons being distributed in
1977/78. Seed production exceeded appraisal estimates for groundnuts by 51%
but reached only 22% of sorghum and 45% of maize projections and improved
seed is estimated to have reached 10,000 farmers.
1.13      Distribution of coffee seedlings for rainfed production has been
double that of the appraisal estimates and 3,500 feddan involving 3,500
farmers will have been planted by the end of the project instead of the 1,500
estimated at appraisal. This offsets the failure to develop an estimated
1,650 feddan of irrigated coffee. Due to a very weak and understaffed exten-
sion service and the late arrival of a coffee officer and the almost permanent
shortage of fuel and spare parts, the irrigated coffee component never started.
A cotton spraying program was started in 1977 with good results, but the 2,000
farmers involved have been discouraged by late buying of the crop due to
EPAPC's shortage of funds and fuel to transport the crop and to operate
the ginnery. No cess has yet been levied on cotton to recover spraying costs,
nor has foreign exchange been made available to cover the cost of pesticides
for spraying. However, this problem is being addressed under a separate ODM
project. Pilot crop marketing which started in the 1978 buying season failed
due to a late start and an inflexible price policy; this problem is expected
to be overcome for the 1979 season. The pilot extension program in Yei and
Maridi is developing suitable extension programs for wider replication, but
better coordination is required between extension and research. Certificate
and in-service training has commenced at the new Yei Agricultural Training
Institute, and a Stockman Training School is nearing completion at Malakal,
with courses due to commence in 1979.
1.14      A large scale vaccination program, principally for RP and CBPP, has
been implemented with West German technical assistance, but coverage of
the cattle population has been lower than anticipated. Only about 460,000
vaccinations were done in 1977/78 compared to appraisal estimates of 2.6
million. Three new veterinary diagnostic centers at Juba, Wau and Malakal are
nearing completion. Little progress with livestock development has been made
due to delays in acquiring land; both the ranch and dairy at Marial Bai have
now been demarcated and development is progressing. Useful baseline surveys
have been completed on the Dinka livestock and farming system in Gogrial and
Rumbek, and also on cattle marketing.
1.15      The road unit started work in 1978, but is still plagued with
vehicle and fuel problems reducing performance and only some 50 km have so
far been completed. The building unit has shown that it can construct build-
ings quicker and more economically than private contractors, but its impact
is hampered by procurement problems. The Project Development Unit (PDU), set
up in MOA, has become an effective institution for project implementation
though lack of administrative support places a heavy burden on management.
The internal radio and air charter communication has been invaluable to
project implementation; but problems have occurred due to delays in granting
landing permits for charter aircraft.



-6 -
1.16      Some useful reports have been produced by the evaluation unit, but
monitoring has not been as successful as planned, due to late hiring and sick-
ness of senior staff and insufficient guidance on an appropriate methodology.
The project has provided an effective infrastructure base on which to build
and, particularly through improved seed has developed the basis for improved
farmer input packages. A number of issues concerning financing, input supplies,
credit and the relationship of the project to the Ministry need attention.
The project has relied heavily on internationally recruited personnel as this
has been more readily forthcoming than an adequate supply of local senior and
middle level staff. Project funds are projected to be fully utilized by the
end of June 1979.  Based on appraisal estimates, the project achieved 90%
completion of infrastructure, research and seed production; 230% of rainfed
coffee development and 50% of cotton and extension development. Apart from
the vaccination campaign, only infrastructure developments have been achieved
in the animal health and production fields. In the circumstances, a slow but
encouraging start has been made; with some changes in direction and building
on the lessons or success of the Rehabilitation and other projects, the pace
of development can now be accelerated though still within the framework of the
many existing constraints.
1.17      Other donor projects involved in the smallscale sector include:
(a) a UNDP/FAO Crop and Soil Investigation project at Halima
in Bahr-el-Ghazal province, which has provided a base of
applied research, agro-economic survey and pilot extension
for the Ironstone Plateau areas;
(b) The Sudan Council of Churches' ox-training project at
Rumbek in Lakes province, which has met with encouraging
farmer response;
(c) a Dutch aid project at Bor in Jonglei province, developing
an applied research station on the Pengko Plain, including
production of improved rice seed; and
(d) an integrated agricultural and rural development project
being implemented by the Norwegian Church Relief in
Eastern Equatoria.
1.18      Further proposals have recently been made by UNDP for an integrated
project based on livestock production in Kongor district, Jonglei province
and by ODM for rehabilitating EPAPC's Nzara Complex (para 1.10). The latter
project is essential for maintaining cotton production; it not only promises
to be viable, but would also contribute to the Regional economy and local
employment. It is proposed that when the restructured EPAPC would take over
the pilot extension and cotton spray programs started by the Rehabilitation
project in Western Equatoria, crop promotion and extension work would be
done by MOA alone or in coordination with EPAPC to ensure that the whole
farm approach is not neglected at the expense of cotton only. Until then,
PDU would continue to support this activity.



-7-
Future Strategy
1.19      The various activities of the past six years have given the Region
improved infrastructure on which to build, have provided some technical
advances for improved farmer packages and have had an ameliorating influence
on the many constraints that impinge on development in the SouthernI Region.
Much more remains to be done, and a realistic development program must be
drawn up that maximizes the use of available finance, technical assistance and
scarce manpower resources in a phased program that the Region has the capacity
to implement. In this a balance has to be struck between the two main devel-
opment thrusts:
(a)  to initiate development in all provinces, to remove
food shortages in the March/April period caused by adverse
weather conditions and storage problems and to improve
the incomes and diets of the large mass of farmers and
pastoralists; and/or
(b)  to give priority in high potential areas to producing
those crops that have high export value, or can rapidly
assist in satisfying urban food demands.
1.20      The proposed Project would address both these goals but only
insofar as they can be achieved by smallscale farmers and pastoralists; and
to improve coordination, Government endorses the concept that all initiatives
in this field should be viewed as part of a Regional Smallscale Agricultural
Development Program (RSADP) to be discussed in the next chapter. Outside the
RSADP, Government would continue to pursue the second objective by fostering
special tea, tobacco,plantation coffee and forestry schemes, by producing
sorghum under mechanization at Renk and sugar at Melut to feed urban areas, by
producing kenaf for sacks at Tonj and rice at Aweil that can readily be moved
North by rail, and by producing cotton cloth and vegetable oil at Nzara for
internal self-sufficiency.
II. THE REGIONAL SMALL-SCALE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (RSADP)
2.01      The Southern Regional Government is placing high priority on
improving the conditions of the large mass of small farmers and pastoralists.
Several initiatives are being made by Government, assisted by a number of
donor agencies (para 1.17), to achieve this goal; but they lack coordination
and have not been viewed in a coherent time frame. Through the Regional
Smallscale Agricultural Development Program (RSADP), MOA would place such
development in its correct time perspective of 15 to 20 years, and coordinate
the agricultural activities of the various donors within the same program. At
the same time, it would harness local initiative and the energies of develop-
ment administrators by basing the approach on district development plans. A
major weakness of the MOA is its lack of planning capacity, and so a Project



- 8-
Formulation Unit (PFU) would be set up to advise the Minister on project
proposals and to prepare district development plans and from these, specific
projects for bilateral or multilateral financing.
2.02      Each district entering the program would pass through a preparatory
phase, which would include agro-economic surveys, research and observation
trials and seed multiplication prior to entering the development phase for
which plans would be drawn up by PFU. In the development phase, the extension
service would come under the jurisdiction of a specific project (PDU in this
case) for a 5-8 year period when an appropriate infrastructure for improved
input supply and marketing would be developed.  Finally, districts would move
into a consolidation phase, when regular Government services would continue
the activities.
2.03      A tentative phasing of the first years of RSADP would be worked out
by MOA, assisted by the proposed Chief Planning Adviser (CPA), and would take
into consideration Government's priorities.
2.04      All districts of the Region would gradually enter the program over
a 15 to 20 year period. In early years emphasis would be on provision of hand
tools and improved seed, but gradually, with advances in applied research and
improved communications, more sophisticated packages would be developed for
a wider range of crops. As subsistence needs become satisfied, attention would
shift to cash crops. Livestock integration would progressively gain importance
including work oxen, small ruminants and milk production around urban centers.
The livestock economy of the. pastoralist would likewise develop through grazing
associations and dairy ranching. Increased off-take would be expected through
increased herd productivity due to improved animal disease control, new ini-
tiatives in livestock marketing and easier access to consumer goods.
2.05      Limited manpower and infrastructure dictate that some districts may
not enter the formal program for several years. Such districts would, how-
ever, receive some development assistance, as all those advances that can be
widely and cheaply replicated would continue to be expanded through existing
Government services. The RSADP would act as a catalyst. For instance,
improved seed developed for Rumbek district would not have to await a formal
RSADP donor assisted development project to be distributed in similar environ-
ments of Tonj and Yirol districts, but would be multiplied and distributed
through existing Government facilities (para 6.06). The emphasis would be
placed on self-reliance through farmer groups, cooperatives and private trade
which would help to replicate initiatives more rapidly without the constant
need for Government intervention.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would assist the Regional Government over a four year
period to implement part of the RSADP by strengthening agricultural services,



- 9 -
planning capacity and management for rural development programs and improving
physical infrastructure. The Project deviates from Government proposals in
the following aspects: (i) the implementation of the Project would be at a
slower pace than proposed. Instead of reaching 12 of the Region's 23 dis-
tricts within the four year Project period, it is considered feasible for
the Project to reach only six new districts and (ii) the pilot cattle ranch
proposed in the tsetse fly infested area has been excluded as it is considered
uneconomic and would not benefit the smallscale farmer and pastoralist.
Specifically, the Project would include:
(a) funding of the CPA and establishing a Project Formulation
Unit (PFU) to assist him in preparing district plans and
projects for implementation under the RSADP; this unit
would also conduct the range ecology survey and absorb
and strengthen the monitoring and evaluation unit estab-
lished under the Rehabilitation project. In addition,
the CPA would give advice on all planning activities of MOA;
(b) strengthening the Project Development Unit (PDU) as
the Project implementation agency including its build-
ing unit which would construct and maintain all Project
facilities and provide boreholes;
(c) carrying out food crop trials and developing extension
packages on a whole-farm approach and progressively
introducing them in the districts opened up through PDU;
(d) developing smallholder rainfed coffee and cotton production,
and expanding seed multiplication;
(e) strengthening the extension service, providing staff
for home economics and nutrition and establishing a
development support media branch, basically to be
engaged in the preparation of material for the exten-
sion service;
(f) providing input supplies and assisting in transporting
and marketing through a pilot program in liaison with
the Regional Ministry of Cooperatives, Trade and Supply
(MCTS);
(g) supporting the Yei Agricultural Training Institute (ATI)
for certificate-level and in-service training and training
of local administrators and leaders as well as Project
staff in development seminars;
(h) assisting the MOA's Department of Animal Resources with
provision of technical assistance, drugs and vaccines under
the animal health program, and supporting the Stockman Train-
ing School in Malakal;



- 10 -
(i)  supporting the three veterinary laboratories established
under the Rehabilitation project to provide diagnostic
services, produce vaccines and carry out a Regional
cattle disease survey;
(j)  operating the Livestock Development Center at Marial Bai,
established under the Rehabilitation project, to improve
technical packages for pastoralists and mixed farming
smallholders and operating a dairy unit as a model for
future smallholder dairy development;
(k)  establishing a pilot livestock marketing program largely
based on river transport;
(1)  doubling the size of the feeder road construction unit,
established under the Rehabilitation project, to improve
and maintain some 560 km of road;
(m)  providing LSd 400,000 to assist MOA in funding future
Project preparation and conducting special studies including
one for the Government to study the long-term budgetary
implications of all agricultural development projects in the
Region.
3.02      The two major centers for Project activities related to food crops
would be in Yei (Eastern Equatoria province) and Halima/Wau (Bahr-el-Ghazal
province). The Yei center would extend its programs through Mundri mainly
north toward Rumbek and up to Tonj.  The Halima/Wau center would open up
districts to the north such as Gogrial and Aweil. Priority would be given
to the most heavily populated districts. Activities would be concentrated in
six of the Regions' 23 districts and the exact phasing would be established
according to Government priorities and be incorporated in annual work programs
(para 5.07). During the Project period four districts would enter the devel-
opment phase (Yei, Rumbek, Wau and Gogrial) and two districts would enter the
preparatory phase (Aweil and Tonj). The smallholder coffee development would
be located in the Greenbelt area. Extension for cotton production would
originally be restricted to the Eastern Equatoria province, since the Western
Equatoria province, where most of the cotton is presently grown, would be
handled through the EPAPC in coordination with MOA. Cotton research is
included in the proposals for the Yambio Research Station soon to be rehabili-
tated through USAID assistance.  Seed production in Yei and Halima/Wau would
be expanded to ultimately supply the whole Region. The animal health program
and veterinary services would cover five provinces of the Region: the sixth
province, Western Equatoria, has no measurable livestock population due to
tsetse fly infestation. The animal disease survey would be executed on a
province by province basis. Feeder road construction would initially be
restricted to the Equatoria provinces, but would in the latter part of the
Project period expand into Bahr-el-Ghazal province. Project implementation
responsibility would rest with PDU with the exception of the PFU and animal



- 11 -
health components. The first would be under the CPA and the latter under
MOA's Director of Animal Resources. The RSADP Executive Committee would
oversee the overall program implementation.
B. Detailed Features
3.03      The Project would provide for internationally recruited and local
staff, consultants, fellowships, vehicles, machinery and equipment, vehicle
and machinery operating costs, air charter, housing and other Project facili-
ties. It is Government policy not to provide housing in major centers, but
in view of the housing shortage in Juba and Yei, it was agreed during nego-
tiations that some houses may be built for local staff. Futher, specific
items for particular components are indicated in the following paragraphs and
are detailed in their respective cost tables, which are included in the
Implementation Volume.
Regional Smallscale Agriculturallevelopment Program (RSADP) and Project
Formulation Unit (PFU) (Annex 3)-
3.04      The Project would provide an internationally recruited Chief Planning
Adviser to oversee the RSADP planning and implementation. To enable him to do
this, the Project would establish the PFU which would include a Farm Management
Specialist, a Crop Production Specialist/Land Use Planner and a Rural Sociolo-
gist and absorb the monitoring and evaluation unit with its two Economists
established under the Rehabilitation project. The Animal Production Specialist
under the nutrition component would also work closely with PFU. The main
responsibilities of the PFU would be to:
(a) carry out baseline surveys in districts entering the RSADP,
starting with those where PDU would operate;
(b) prepare specific district development plans;
(c) establish an effective system to monitor this Project
as well as all other projects under the RSADP; and
(d) conduct surveys to evaluate the Project's impact in
such matters as adoption rates in order to improve
*                  future project planning and to recommend possible
changes in management strategy. Special provision
has been made for mapping equipment and the setting
up of a library within MOA.
The Chief Planning Adviser would also advise the Deputy Director of Planning
and Marketing on the activities of his Department (para 5.03).
1/   All Annexes referred to in this report are included in the Implementation
Volume.



- 12 -
Range Ecology Survey (Annex 3)
3.05      The Project would finance a range ecology survey to determine
rangeland types and present use as an essential input into the planning of
livestock production schemes for the pastoralists. This would be carried out
in Project Years 2-4 with the team leader being recruited in Year 1 to collect
and analyze relevant information, prepare and test survey methodology, recruit
and train staff and purchase necessary equipment. Back-up support would be
provided by the PFU and close coordination would be maintained with MOA's
Deputy Director for Range Management and Pastures. The team would operate
from Juba and field investigations would have chartered aerial survey support.
It is not expected that the survey would cover the whole Region and would
concentrate in areas of Project activity with dense cattle populations.
Project Development Unit (PDU) (Annex 4)
3.06      To strengthen the management capacities of PDU, the Project would
provide the internationally recruited Project Director and the Deputy Project
Director, a Sudanese, both already in post. They would be supported by two
Assistant Project Directors, one for each of the two major centers. The
Financial Controller would be assisted through an internationally recruited
Chief Accountant. Funds would be provided for a consultant firm to establish
an accounting system taking into account the different financing agencies'
requirements. Project headquarters would be located in Juba with the two
major outside centers being Yei in the south and Halima/Wau in the north-west.
The organizational structure of PDU is given in Chart 3.
Crops
Crop Development (Annex 5)
3.07      The Project would provide the Chief Crop Development Officer who
would be assisted by a Farm Management Specialist, two senior Research
Officers, an Agronomist, a Farm Manager, an Entomologist and a Sorghum
Breeder. All would be expected to be internationally recruited to carry out
adaptive research and seed multiplication in existing facilities through the
crop centers in Yei and Halima/Wau and their sub-stations covering the Green-
belt area and north towards Tonj and the Ironstone Plateau respectively. The
Halima/Wau center would be supported by a soil survey unit that is already
established.
3.08      Food Crop Trials and research would be continued with the emphasis
on improving maize, groundnuts and sorghum.  Some work would also be done
on other crops comprising millet, cassava, sesame, pulses and rice.
Coffee Development (Annex 6)
3.09      The Project would provide an internationally recruited Coffee
Officer who would assist in improving the expanded extension service, empha-
sizing better site selection, moisture conservation and control and pruning
practices to improve yields. Smallholder rainfed robusta coffee development
would be expanded by increasing the area under production from 3,500 feddan



- 13 -
to 6,500 feddan affecting about 6,500 farmers. Medium-term credit would be
provided under the Project to assist farm groups in acquiring coffee hullers
(para 3.17). For irrigated coffee, present evidence shows no additional
returns to labor from increased yields and the Project would continue only on
a pilot basis to assist a few farm groups in such ventures.
Cotton Development (Annex 7)
3.10      The Project would provide an internationally recruited Cotton
Officer to expand the cotton extension and spraying program started during
the Rehabilitation project in Eastern Equatoria province. The Project would
also continue to assist EPAPC in Western Equatoria province, through staff
training specialist advice and research support. By the end of the Project,
about 10,000 farmers would be covered, each with one feddan of cotton. EPAPC
is responsible for marketing and processing of cotton and PDU would liaise
with them closely. The Project would provide a sum of 1bSd 50,000 to cover the
cost of incremental insecticide requirements.
Seed Production (Annex 8)
3.11      The Project would provide a Seed Production Manager to expand the
production of improved seed such as maize, groundnuts and sorghum. Maize
and groundnut seed production would be concentrated at Yei and sorghum seed
production would be carried out at Halima/Wau and to a lesser extent at
Rumbek. During the Project period about 600 tons of groundnut seed and 550
tons each of maize and sorghum seed would be produced for distribution and/or
further multiplication by farmers. The priority for release of improved seed
would go to districts entering the RSADP. During the life of the Project
improved seed would be sold to some 12,000 farmers in the Project districts
and about 25,000 farmers in other areas.
Extension and Nutrition (Annex 9)
3.12      For the extension activities, the Project would establish two exten-
sion units. One would operate from the Yei center and one from the Halima/Wau
center and each would be headed by an internationally recruited Senior Exten-
sion Officer. Under the Rehabilitation project, packages were developed for
individual crops only. Consequently, under this Project a simple package
program would be developed, based on a whole-farm approach that could be
extended to farm families. Gradually these packages would be improved with
further on-farm experience. With the 30 and 20 overseers envisaged in Yei and
Wau districts respectively, the ratio of extension staff would be 1:750
farmers. Due to the limited staff resources, in more populated districts such
as Gogrial and Rumbek, the ratio would be 1:1,200 farmers. MOA is presently
in the process of developing a standard extension program with enough flexibil-
ity at the district level to adjust for local conditions.
3.13      An internationally recruited Animal Production Specialist would be
provided and based at Halima/Wau to introduce ox-training as it is considered
of importance to the smallholders to enable them to cultivate a larger area



- 14 -
per farm holding. With three ox-training teams stationed in Rumbek, Wau and
Gogrial districts, he would draw on the experience of the successful pilot
program introduced by the Sudan Council of Churches in Rumbek. The Animal
Production Specialist would work closely with and assist PFU staff in their
work.
3.14      Under the nutrition activities, the Project would provide two inter-
nationally recruited Nutritionists based in Yei and Halima/Wau to carry out
surveys and implement nutrition extension programs. The extension program
would aim to teach rural families improved adult and child feeding, better
household and personal hygiene and make special efforts to cater for needs
at periods of seasonal food shortage through improved storage or additional
crops. Consultancy funds would be provided for any needs in the medical
field, such as studies on debilitating diseases affecting farm productivity.
Commercial Services: Food Crop Marketing, Credit and Input Supplies (Annex 10)
3.15      The Project would provide an internationally recruited Senior Crops
Marketing Officer to establish five cooperative marketing and development
teams as there are practically no marketing arrangements for the smallholder.
Although private traders operate on a small scale, the benefits for the far-
mers are minimal due to low prices paid and high transport charges levied by
such traders. In order to establish an organized marketing and delivery sys-
tem, the teams would be responsible for:
(a) selling input supplies in the form of hand tools and seed
for cash and providing rice and coffee hullers, maize
shellers and ox-drawn equipment on medium-term credit;
(b) buying and selling produce in the market season. The
Project would provide four 200 ton district stores and
fifty distribution stores (40 tons) for this purpose;
(c) training farmer association/cooperative members in management,
credit administration, storage and retailing practices and
market procedures; and
(d) assisting extension staff to form farmer associations that could
be registered as pre-cooperative associations.
3.16      A fund of tSd 75,000 would be provided as working capital for the
marketing operation. After completion of the Project, the pilot operation
would be continued by MCTS. Eventually the activities would be self-supporting
and the operation would phase out, to be overtaken through services provided
by cooperative unions and private traders. Recommendations for buying prices
of crops would be established by the Senior Crop Marketing Officer and approved
by the RSADP Executive Committee. Prices would relate to wholesale prices
ruling on markets such as Juba and Wau and would be flexible to reflect
seasonal adjustments.



- 15 -
3.17      The Project would also provide a small medium-term credit component
of US$380,000 for coffee hullers, maize shellers, rice thrashers and ox-
drawn equipment. Lending terms would be 9% per annum for three years. Annual
inflation in the Sudan has averaged 24, 22 and 20% in 1976, 1977 and 1978
respectively and is expected to decline gradually from an estimatcd 18% in
1979 to 8% in 1983. The proposed rate of 9% is consistent with the rate
currently charged throughout the country by the Agricultural Bank of Sudan.
During negotiations it was agreed that once the proposed Regional Cooperative
Bank and/or the Agricultural Bank of Sudan (which is presently in the process
of opening a branch in Juba) are operationally effective, the Project will
hand over the credit activities under arrangements satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
3.18      The Project will obtain technical advice from MCTS to assist exten-
sion staff to prepare the groundwork for future farmers' associations and
later cooperatives.
3.19      The Project would also provide six months of consultancy to draw
up outline proposals for training of marketing staff, conduct the initial
three months marketing training course at Yei and assist in preparing a devel-
opment plan for cooperative marketing.
Training
Development Support Media (Annex 11)
3.20      The Project would provide for the establishment of a development
support media section to be headed by an internationally recruited Senior
Communications Officer, to assist the crop, livestock and nutrition extension
services, help in the training of the 600 junior level employees who would
pass through the Project training program and be responsible for promoting
better cooperation with other projects, ministries and local administrators
through a public relations program.
3.21      The major task would be the production of a loose-leaf field manual
for extension workers. Technical bulletins for extension staff and posters
would also be produced as well as casette/tape slide sets, radio broadcasts
and video-taping for training films. In addition, the section would produce
publicity material for local publications, talks for Juba radio and organize
development seminars. Consideration would be given to hiring a consulting
firm for this task which specializes in developing material directly relevant
to local conditions.
Training and Staff Development (Annex 12)
3.22      In view of the critical shortage of trained.manpower, the Project
would place major emphasis on training junior level staff. The Project would
provide an internationally recruited Senior Training Officer and would improve
physical facilities by expanding the ATI in Yei to cater for certificate-level
and in-service training requirements. ATI would coordinate their curricula



- 16 -
with the Rumbek Institute to be funded by USAID and Government. Furthermore,
the Project would provide funds for 44 man years of specific university and
specialized training scholarships for selected staff and a further US$15,000
for short-term training courses; the cost of which has been allocated under
the various components. The phasing of fellowships would be as follows: 12
in Year 1, 15 in Year 2, 12 in Year 3 and 5 in Year 4. These numbers together
with other graduates becoming available would be sufficient to fill all
permanent professional positions required at the end of the Project. However,
in view of their relative inexperience, a continued but reduced cadre of
internationally recruited staff is anticipated for several more years. The
Project will also provide for the training of stockmen (para 3.25).
3.23      The Project's certificate level training would comprise four month
induction courses followed by further modular courses (short-term with spe-
cific subject matter) for a total of eight months spread over a three year
period. MOA and EPAPC staff requiring retraining or upgrading would receive
modular courses for a total of six months. Assuming both Yei and Rumbek are
fully operational for a three year period with accommodation available for
100 staff at a time, 3,600 months of training would be available. Of this,
about 2,200 would be at Yei and about 1,400 at Rumbek. Project requirements
would be:
Month            TOTAL
per          Man-Months for
Type of Staff                 Nos.  Trainee      Certificate Training
Extension teams                 80  x   12                 960
Nutrition teams                 20  x   12                 240
Marketing teams                 20  x   12                 240
Research/Seed Staff             20  x   12                240
Coffee Development              50  x    6                300
MOA staff retrained             70  x    6                420
EPAPC staff retrained           70  x    6                420
2,820
The balance of 780 man-months is required for in-service training of graduates
and diplomates, field orientation for trainers, leave, seminars, course pre-
paration and evaluation.
Livestock
Animal Health Program (Annex 13)
3.24      The Project would provide an internationally recruited Logistics
Officer who would train local staff in the procurement and distribution of
drugs and vaccines, thereby strengthening MOA's Department of Animal Resources
in the coordination of its field services. The Project would also provide
LSd 200,000 for vaccines as well as the operating expenditures for some



- 17 -
40 vehicles handed over to MOA under the Federal Republic of Germany's
vaccination campaign for the vaccination of cattle, particularly against RP
and CBPP. In addition, the Project would establish a hSd 100,000 revolving
fund for the cash sale of drugs.
3.25      Furthermore, the Project would provide support to the Stockman
Training School at Malakal, established under the Rehabilitation project, by
funding the teaching staff and the operating costs to enable the training of
75 stockmen per annum. It is expected that after this Project is completed,
the school would be upgraded for certificate-level training. It was agreed
during negotiations that within the existing funds and facilities, a modular
course be developed so that the training would qualify as part of the credits
for subsequent modular certificate-level courses on a similar basis to those
proposed for Yei and Rumbek (para 3.23).
Veterinary Laboratory Services and Cattle Disease Survey (Annex 14)
3.26      The Project would provide capital and operating expenditures for
the three laboratories constructed under the Rehabilitation project as well
as an internationally recruited Chief Veterinary Officer, assisted by two
Veterinarians, a Pathologist, a Microbiologist and one Senior Technologist
and one Laboratory Technician, who would operate the laboratories to support
MOA with diagnostic services and for the production of CBPP vaccine. The
laboratories would also be engaged in the cattle disease survey by operating
one team from the central laboratory in Juba and supporting the West German
survey team working in Bahr-el-Ghazal province. Each of the survey teams
would consist of one Veterinarian and one Technician and supporting staff
including 8 man-years of technical assistance at the laboratories. It is
planned that over the Project period the five cattle carrying provinces of the
Region would be surveyed. Although the German team is funded to operate for
2-1/2 years only, the Project would provide for the continuation of the survey
for the total Project period.
Livestock Production (Annex 15)
3.27      The Project would operate the Livestock Production Center at Marial
Bai which has been established under the Rehabilitation project. Senior staff
would be provided and would be internationally recruited to fill the positions
of Chief Livestock Officer, Ranch Manager and Dairy Manager. The work program
consists of studies on the performance potential of local cattle, sheep and
goats for meat production and the pilot dairy ranching scheme for the envisaged
smallholder dairy units to supply low cost milk and milk products to urban
centers.
3.28      The pilot ranching activities would develop technical packages for
pastoralists and smallholder crop/livestock producers through trials on low
cost pasture improvement, introduction of improved grasses and legumes, forage
production and conservation and assessing the productivity of different
pastures and the response to varying grazing regimes. The center would also



- 18 -
compare local cattle and sheep und!er field and station conditions and engage
in background feeding of local cattle in preparation for final fattening in
feedlots.
3.29      The pilot dairy activities would concentrate on comparing different
genotypes such as Friesian/Zebu and Friesian/Butana crosses, feeding trials,
including crop residues and agro-industrial by-products, calf rearing and
comparisons between dairy ranching and pure dairying. If the concept appears
technically and economically justified, the center would assist PFU in prepar-
ing a smallholder dairy project.
Livestock Marketing (Annex 16)
3.30      The Project would support a livestock marketing system by providing
an internationally recruited Regional Livestock Marketing Officer for a pilot
project to develop (through the purchase of a barge) livestock transport
on the underutilized waterways. It is not intended that Government intervene
in the marketing through the purchase of stock. The existing livestock
marketing system would be surveyed and regularly monitored to formulate a
livestock marketing strategy for the Region. It was agreed during negoti-
ations that MOA will prepare jointly with the Livestock and Meat Marketing
Corporation a mutually acceptable plan for the organization of livestock
marketing in the Southern Region; and that, following IDA approval, the
Regional Government will establish the proposed Livestock Marketing Organi-
zation in accordance with the approved plan.
Secondary and Feeder Road Construction (Annex 17)
3.31      The Project would expand the secondary and feeder road construction
unit by doubling its present size and replacing the existing equipment during
the life of the Project. Such equipment would comprise two bulldozers, four
graders, two loading shovels, two self-propelled rollers, two tractors, twelve
tip trucks and ancilliary machinery and equipment. The Project would also
provide an internationally recruited Road Engineer and two Construction and
two Mechanical Supervisors. Altogether the Project would rehabilitate approxi-
mately 560 km of feeder road and maintain the improved network. This would
complete the priority road program in Yei district and allow a start in the
Wau area.
Building Unit (Annex 18)
3.32      The Project would provide an internationally recruited Chief Civil
Works Engineer, a Building Manager and a Building Superintendent to strengthen
the building unit established under the Rehabilitation project and to handle
all civil works requirements. The Project would also provide a new workshop
including stores and an office in Juba. The unit would be provided with a
drilling rig to drill and equip 20 wells during the Project life.



- 19 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost Estimates
4.01      Total Project costs including contingencies are estimated to be
hSd 28.0 million (US$56.0 million) of which the foreign exchange component
of LSd 19.6 million (US$39.2 million) is 71%. Cost estimates are based on
prices prevailing in December 1978. The following table lists the various
components and the funding agencies.
Foreign
Local  Foreign            Local  Foreign           Exchange   Funding
Project Component          Cost  Exchange  Total   Cost  Exchange  Total         %       Agency  /a
------ESd'0O0--------  ------US$'000--------
Project Formulation,
Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit            322  1,174    1,496    644   2,348   2,992    78         ODM, IDA
PDU Headquaters             304  1,015    1,319    608   2,030   2,638    76         ODM, IFAD, IDA
Crop Development
Activities               1,478  3,075    4,553  2,956   6,150   9,106    67         ODM, IFAD, IDA
Coffee Development          499    275       774    998       550   1,548    35      ODM, IFAD
Cotton Development          143    286       429    286       572     858    66       IFAD
Seed Production             350    120       470    700       240     940    25      IFAD
Extension & Nutrition       270    727       997    540   1,454   1,994    72         ODM, IFAD
Food Crop Marketing,
Cooperatives,
Credit and Farm
Input Supplies             538    619    1,157  1,076   1,238   2,314    53         IFAD
Development Support
Media                       97    399       496    194       798     992    80       ODM
Training & Staff
Development                271    381       652    542       762   1,304    58      ODM
Animal Health Program       377    704    1,081    754   1,408   2,162    65          IFAD
Veterinary Laboratory
Services and Cattle
Disease Survey             373  2,292    2,665    746   4,584   5,330    86         IDA, GTZ
Livestock Production        317    564       881    634   1,128   1,762    64         IDA
Livestock Marketing         128    860       988    256   1,720   1,976    87         IDA
Secondary & Feeder
Road Construction          656  2,139    2,795  1,312   4,278   5,590    76         ODM
Building Unit               226    963    1,189    452   1,926   2,378    80          IDA
Project Preparation          -     400       400      -       800     800   100       IDA
Base Cost                 6,349 15,993   22,342 12,698  31,986  44,684    71
Physical Contingencies    259    836    1,095    518   1,672   2,190    76
Price Contingencies       1,370  3,145    4,515  2,740   6,290   9,030    69
C      TOTAL COST                7,978 19,974   27,952 15,956  39,948  55,904    71
/a   For details see Table 2.



- 20 -
4.02      A summary of Project cost by type of expenditures is as follows:
Foreign
Local  Foreign            Local  Foreign           Exchange
Type of Expenditure        Cost  Exchange  Total    Cost  Exchange  Total         %
------LSd'000--------   ------US$'000
Technical Assistance        -      6,691   6,691      -    13,382  13,382    100
Local Salaries and
Wages                  3,944      -     3,944   7,888      -      7,888     -
Other Operating Cost      1,341   4,023   5,364   2,682   8,046  10,728         75
Vehicles and Equipment       148   4,062   4,210      296   8,124   8,420       96
Civil Works                 789   1,344   2,133   1,578   2,688   4,266         63
Base Cost                 6,222  16,120  22,342  12,444  32,240  44,684         71
Physical Contingencies      259      836   1,095      518   1,672   2,190       76
Price Contingencies       1,370   3,145   4,515   2,740   6,290   9,030         69
TOTAL COST                7,851  20,101  27,952  15,702  40,202  55,904         71
4.03      Physical contingencies have been allowed at the rate of 5% on all
items, including personnel to give Project management some flexibility in its
staffing requirements. The experience from the Rehabilitation project shows
that the prices of goods and services have increased far more in the Southern
Sudan than at the international level. This reflects partly the isolation of
the Southern Region with its poor infrastructure and the fact that almost all
imports are obtained from Kenya via Uganda. Therefore the following price
contingency rates have been used: for all personnel 5% per annum, for all
locally produced goods and services 14% for 1979 and 10% thereafter, and for
all foreign cost 12% for 1979 and 10% thereafter. The price contingencies for
salaries and wages have been kept at 5%, as Project costs are based on the new
salary scales which are being introduced, substantially increasing the pay for
public service employees, including Project staff and therefore additional
increases are not expected during the Project period. Physical and price
contingencies combined represent 26% on base cost. The Government of Sudan
does not levy import duties on goods for the proposed Project which constitutes
part of the Government structure. Consequently all capital items and the
major operating costs such as petrol do not include a local tax component.
Income taxes on salaries and wages of local personnel are estimated at bSd 0.6
million. Other taxes such as border fees for shipments from Kenya and charter
plane landing fees are minimal and have not been separately identified.
4.04      A number of volunteers have been successfully employed under the
Rehabilitation project and it is expected that this source of technical
assistance would be continued. However, as it is difficult to allocate the
exact number and qualifications of such less costly staff, the Project pro-
vides a blend cost of US$50,000 per man year for internationally recruited
personnel. The Project also includes provision for about 15 man years (178
man months) of consultancies at the rate of US$4,000 per month.



- 21 -
B. Financing
4.05      The financing of the Project would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
Amount
('000)          % of Total
LSd            US$    Project Cost
IDA                      7,500         15,000         27
ODM                      9,250         18,500         33
Federal Republic
of Germany               950          1,900          3
IFAD                     7,500         15,000         27
Government of
Sudan /a               2,800          5,600         10
Total Project Cost lb  28,000          56,000        100
/a   Including an amount of ESd 150,000 granted to the Government
under the FAO Halima project.
/b   Total Project Costs are the same as net Project Costs as
there are no significant taxes or duties on Project inputs.
The proposed IDA Credit would be to the Government of Sudan for use by the
Southern Regional Government on standard IDA terms. The IDA Credit of
US$15.0 million would finance foreign exchange costs (US$13.2 million) and
US$1.8 million local costs. ODM would provide on a grant basis US$18.5 mil-
lion of which US$14.3 million would cover foreign exchange costs and US$4.2
million local costs. The Federal Republic of Germany would provide US$1.9
million to finance foreign exchange costs (US$1.8 million) and local costs
(US$.1 million) which would be provided as a grant through its technical
assistance agency (GTZ). The US$15.0 million from IFAD would be used to
finance US$10.7 million of foreign exchange costs and US$4.3 million of
local costs. In total, the external financiers would provide 100% of foreign
exchange costs and 70% of local costs. For a further breakdown, see Table 2.
4.06      The IDA Credit would be channelled through the Southern Regional
Government to PDU which would operate as an identifiable separate entity
within MOA and would also have its own bank accounts as presently arranged.
Experience with ongoing projects indicates that severe budgetary constraints
and cash availability is a major factor limiting the pace of project imple-
mentation and consequently IDA credit disbursements. It is proposed that



- 22 -
immediately after Credit effectiveness, an initial IDA disbursement of US$1.0
million would be made to serve as a revolving fund to finance Project's
day-to-day operations covering a 3 month period. US$400,000 would be paid
into PDU's account in Nairobi and US$600,000 into their local account which
were established under the Rehabilitation project. IDA would replenish the
revolving fund upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that such expenditure was
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit. Should, however,
any disbursement fail to meet this condition, Government will be under the
obligation to deposit the corresponding amount into PDU's accounts. Appro-
priate assurances were obtained during negotiations.
C. Implications for Government Budget
4.07      The cash flow, presented in Table 8, shows that the Government
would only partially recover ongoing expenditures. After completion of the
Project and excluding debt service, the annual cost to Government of maintain-
ing the level of extension and other services would amount to fSd 4.1 million
and stabilize at ESd 2.5 million from Year 11 onwards, leading to a cumulative
deficit of LSd 33.2 million (US$66.4 million) by Year 20. If debt service is
included, these figures increase to an annual average of ESd 4.2 million for
Years 5 through 10, stabilizing at ESd 2.8 million in Year 11 and the cumula-
tive deficit by Year 20 is projected to be nSd 36.8 million (US$73.6 million).
In order that Government be made fully aware of the implications of these
costs and make adequate provision to ensure the maintenance of the program,
it was agreed during negotiations that Government, assisted by consultants
if necessary, will undertake a study of the long-term budgetary implications
of all agricultural development projects in the Southern Region. The results
of the study will be discussed with the Association and agreement reached on
an action program by June 30, 1980.
D. Procurement
4.08      Procurement of vehicles, equipment, machinery and prefabricated
houses (US$2.5 million equivalent 1/), in orders of US$200,000 equivalent or
more will be by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Contracts of less than US$200,000 equivalent will be
through local competitive bidding which includes adjacent countries, in
accordance with Government procedures which are satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Contracts under US$25,000 equivalent will be awarded after eval-
uation of at least three suppliers' quotations.  However, such purchases
would not exceed US$1.0 million. Draft tender documents for all contracts
exceeding US$200,000 will be submitted to the Association for approval before
1/   Excluding contingencies.



- 23 -
invitations to bid are issued. Orders under any of the above three procedures
will be grouped whenever possible. The services of internationally recruited
staff and consultants to be financed by IDA will be obtained in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association. During negotiations it was
agreed that the above procedures will be adhered to. Civil works (US$700,000
equivalent 1/) would not attract international bidders due to the remoteness
and dispersed locations of individual small tasks and would be executed by
PDU's building unit. Procurement for parts of the Project financed by ODM
and GTZ would be based on the procedures of those institutions.
4.09      The IFAD procurement procedures would be the same as those of IDA
and PDU would be encouraged to combine orders for items to be financed by
these two institutions. Procurement of vehicles, equipment, machinery and
prefabricated houses under IFAD would amount to US$2.9 million, excluding
contingencies.
E. Project Implementation Chart and Disbursements
4.10      Disbursements of funds from the proposed Credit would be on the
following basis:
(a) 100% of foreign exchange costs or 90% of local costs for
vehicles and equipment (US$2.1 million);
(b) 100% of foreign exchange costs of consultants and inter-
nationally recruited staff (US$6.1 million); and
(c) 100% of foreign exchange and 78% of local costs of operating
expenditures, including local salaries and wages (US$4.2
million).
The unallocated amount would be US$2.6 million. For further breakdown, see
Table 2.
4.11      Disbursement against foreign exchange costs under (a), (b) and (c),
and local costs under (a) will be fully documented. Disbursements against
local costs under (c) will be made against appropriate certificates of expen-
diture certified by the Project Manager, the documentation of which will be
retained by the Borrower and made available for inspection by the Association
during the course of supervision missions. During negotiations assurances
were obtained from Government that for disbursements under this procedure an
auditor's opinion will be submitted to the Association on a periodic basis
stating whether the funds have been used to make payments for goods received,
or works or services performed, and that such goods, works and services were
1/   Excluding contingencies.



- 24 -
eligible for financing under the Project and were used in the carrying out
of the Project. Any funds remaining in the Credit Account upon completion
of the Project would be cancelled.
4.12      Before any disbursements will be made under the livestock market-
ing component, the Government will have agreed with the Association on the
plan for an organization for livestock marketing in the Southern Region
(para 3.30).
4.13      A Project Implementation Schedule is attached as Chart I and the
estimated schedule of disbursements based on recent Rehabilitation project
performance is given below:
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA                                   Quarterly         Cumulative
Fiscal Year             Quarter        Disbursements      Disbursements
--------US$ '000       
1979/80             September               -
December              1,000               1,000
March                   600               1,600
June                    762              2,362
1980/81             September               762               3,124
December                763              3,887
March                   763              4,650
June                    862              5,512
1981/82             September               862               6,374
December                863              7,237
March                   863              8,100
June                    825              8,925
1982/83             September               825               9,750
December                825             10,575
March                   825             11,400
June                    900             12,300
1983/84             September               900              13,200
December               900              14,100
March                   900             15,000



- 25 -
F. Accounts, Audits and Reports
4.14      Separate accounts will be kept reflecting the expenditures financed
by the differer: agencies. The Project related accounts and claims for dis-
bursements against certificates of expenditures (para 4.11) will be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Such audited accounts
will be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained during nego-
tiations.
4.15      During negotiations it was agreed that PDU will prepare annual
and semi-annual implementation/progress reports and make them available to
the co-financiers. The annual reports will include comparisons of actual
achievements against appraisal report estimates with supporting explanatory
commentary.
4.16      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that within three
months of completion of disbursements of IDA funds, MOA will submit a Proj-
ect Completion Report. Such a report is expected to be prepared under the
Director General.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Background
5.01      Although PDU is part of MOA, it operates on a self-accounting
basis and without the constraints of Governmental bureaucratic procedures.
Its autonomy within the Ministry has proven to be a major factor in its
success to implement the Rehabilitation project. However, at the Ministry
level, there are problems due to poor coordination between projects, insuffi-
cient planning capacity and the lack of a consistent policy framework.
Furthermore, the operational difficulties posed by logistical and manpower
constraints have overburdened Project management and prevented sufficient
attention being given to improving technical performance. It is thus con-
sidered essential:
-    to improve Project coordination within MOA and between
Ministries;
-    to retain sufficient levels of autonomy and flexibility
for Project effectiveness;
-    to improve administration and logistical support so that
management and professional staff can mainly address
their development and technical goals;



- 26 -
-    to strengthen planning capacity and implementing
institutions; and
-    to expand the training needed for manpower development.
5.02      For this purpose MOA has been restructured (Chart 2) in accordance
with Government's long-term plans. The Director General, in a newly estab-
lished post, would be resposible for the Ministry's daily operations and
report directly to the Minister. The Directors of Agriculture and Animal
Resources would report to the Director General as would other Department
Heads. During negotiations it was agreed that under the new arrangement,
the Project Director will be at the rank of Director in the Ministry and
have the same powers as other Directors of the Ministry. Government stated
during negotiations that the Director General, whose appointment would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness, has already been appointed.
B. RSADP Coordination and Planning Assistance to MOA
5.03      The planning and coordination of all RSADP activities would be
the responsibility of the Chief Planning Adviser with the PFU working directly
under him and he would report to the Director General. The Project Director
and other RSADP Program Managers would liaise with him regarding the phasing
of smallholder activities, district planning and monitoring and evaluation.
In technical matters the Chief Planning Adviser would liaise with the oper-
ational directors and deputy directors in the Ministry. The Chief Planning
Adviser would also advise the Deputy Director of Planning for the other
functions of the Planning Department comprising planning activities outside
the smallscale sector such as collation and analysis of market information
for the development of marketing and price policies. Furthermore, he would
advise the Deputy Director of MOA's Agricultural Economics and Statistics
Department on planning needs and on appropriate ways of data collection and
analysis.
5.04      An RSADP Executive Committee, replacing the PDU Executive Committee
established under the Rehabilitation project and reporting to the Minister of
Agriculture, will be set up to oversee program implementation. The Committee
will be chaired by the Director General. Other members of the Committee will
be: MOA's Directors of Agriculture and Animal Resources, the Deputy Directors
of Planning and Marketing and Research and Training, the Project Director, the
Chief Planning Adviser, the Directors of Finance and Economic Planning and the
Director of Cooperatives. The Chairman will be empowered to coopt other
members such as Provincial Commissioners, representatives of other projects as
they enter the RSADP and EPAPC. The Committee will be responsible for review-
ing program implementation, the technical aspects of district development
plans, approving crop buying prices under the pilot marketing component and
for addressing manpower constraints and logistical problems. Assurances



- 27 -
covering the establishment and powers of the Committee were obtained during
negotiations. It is expected that the Committee would meet at least once
every three months.
5.05      MOA Directors or Deputy Directors concerned would convene, whenever
necessary, working party meetings to review programs and progress on applied
research, seed multiplication, training, livestock development, crop buying
and marketing and other activities as needed. Such meetings would be attended
by appropriate representatives of all projects and institutions involved.
C. Project Coordination and Implementation
5.06      The Project Development Unit headed by the Director would be the
Ministry's executing agency for the various Project components with the ex-
ception of the animal health program and the running of the Malakal Stockman
Training School. The implementation of the former would be the responsibility
of MOA's Director of Animal Resources and the latter of MOA's Deputy Director
of Research and Training. PDU would only be involved in servicing of vehicles
and funding of staff and other operating costs. The Project Director would
report to the Director General for day-to-day activities and liaise with the
CPA. In technical matters he would liaise with other Directors or Deputy
Directors of MOA under whose responsibility the continuation of services would
fall once the development phase has been completed.
5.07      The basic tool of management would be an annual work plan.  Such
plan would include inter alia details of the number of farmers, volume, type
and value of inputs, acreage and cropping patterns, proposed research trials,
capital requirements such as vehicles and equipment, number of houses, stores
and other facilities to be built, roads program, credit, staffing require-
ments and training. Staffing requirements, while being identified specific-
ally for one year, would also include estimates for each of the following
three years to enable a realistic training program to be carried out. Draft
work plan proposals would be prepared by the Divisional Heads, the Director
of Animal Resources and the German Veterinary Team. Before finalization
by the Project Director, he would consult with the Association. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that Government will provide all land
required to execute the Project, specifically for research, seed production
and civil works.
5.08      The annual work plans will be approved by the RSADP Executive
Committee before such plans will be submitted to the Association for final
approval. If, in the opinion of the Project Director, there are any changes
of substance to the work plans in the course of their execution, such changes
will need to be approved by the RSADP Executive Committee and the Association.
Assurances on the above were obtained during negotiations.



- 28 -
5.09      Any appointment of staff to Grade 8 or higher positions and the
selection of existing or proposed PDU staff for fellowship training overseas,
will be made by the "Staff Appointment Committee" already established under
the Rehabilitation project. During negotiations appropriate assurances were
obtained.
5.10      To implement the annual work plans, the Project Director and his
Deputy would be supported by two Assistants to be stationed in Yei and Halima/
Wau to coordinate the execution of Project activities. Technical supervision
would be the responsibility of Divisional Heads who would report and be
responsible to the Project Director. PDU's six Divisions would be: Finance
and Administration, Crop Development, Rural Services, Veterinary Services,
Livestock Production and Construction Services (Chart 3).
5.11      The Finance and Administration Division based in Juba would be
headed by the Financial Controller and would attend to all financial, procure-
ment and general administrative matters. The Chief Accountant would be
responsible for maintaining all Project accounts. The Purchases and Stores
Controller would be responsible for all procurement matters and control of all
stocks. The Chief Executive Officer would be in charge of all administrative
matters. During negotiations it was agreed that Government will strengthen
the Project's procurement office in Nairobi, maintain a radio link with
Nairobi and issue yearly charter plane landing permits.
5.12      The Crop Development Division would be headed by the Chief Crop
Development Officer based in Juba. The field activities would be executed
through the following four sections: applied research, coffee development,
cotton development and seed production. The supervisors responsible for these
sections would report directly to the Chief Crop Development Officer. This
Division would also be responsible for operating the revolving fund for
insecticides.
5.13      The Rural Services Division would be headed by the Chief Extension
Officer based in Juba and would be responsible for extension and nutrition,
crop marketing and support media activities and the training aspect. All
senior staff under this Division would report directly to the Chief Extension
Officer. This Division would be responsible for operating the revolving fund
for hand tools, the medium-term credit pilot scheme and the proper utilization
of the working capital provided for marketing.
5.14      The Veterinary Services Division would be headed by the Chief
Veterinary Officer based at the central laboratory in Juba. He would be
responsible for the operations of the three laboratories and the cattle
disease survey executed under the Project and coordinate closely with the
German Veterinary Team which would conduct a similar survey in Bahr-el-Ghazal
province.
5.15      The Livestock Production Division would be headed by the Chief
Livestock Development Officer based at Marial Bai. He would have the overall



- 29 -
responsibility for all the ranching and dairy activities and would have the
Ranch Manager and Dairy Manager report to him. The Regional Livestock Market-
ing Officer under this Division would be stationed in Juba.
5.16      The Construction Services Division would be headed by a Chief
Civil Works Engineer and would consist of: the building unit under the
Building Manager, the roads unit under the Road Engineer and the workshops
and repair unit under the Workshop Manager. Apart from the Roads Engineer at
Yei all senior staff would be based in Juba although they would oversee work
at the Yei and Halima/Wau centers and its substations.
5.17      The Supplies Officer under the animal health program would be placed
in MOA's Animal Resources Department and would be responsible to the Director
of Animal Resources. The Malakal Stockman Training School would be adminis-
tered through MOA's Research and Training Department; though curricula would
be drawn up with the advice of the Director of Animal Resources, whose depart-
ment would absorb the school's output.
D. Staffing
Internationally Recruited Staff
5.18      Due to the shortage of senior staff within Government and generally
within the Southern Region, the Project would continue to remain heavily
dependent on international recruitment. The Rehabilitation project, German
Veterinary team and UNDP/FAO Halima project together employ a total of 34 such
staff. Five have been recruited through the Bank's Agricultural Development
Service, namely Project Director, Financial Controller, Chief Crop Development
Officer, Chief Veterinary Officer and an Economist: the majority of other
posts have been provided through bilateral aid from Britain and West Germany
and about 30% of the staff come from volunteer agencies. Government has also
recruited staff directly from adjacent Kenya and Uganda.
5.19      It is estimated that the Project would require a total of 67 tech-
nical assistance staff (Table 3). Twenty-seven of the positions are presently
filled. Seven of these by ODM who have agreed to provide a further 15 and
four are provided by GTZ. The recruitment for the remaining 41 posts would be
the responsibility of Government. As 17 of these posts are presently filled,
there remain 24 more to be recruited.   A large recruitment program has been
initiated to secure staff from Northern Sudan and first indications are that
more than half of the requirements would be obtained in this manner within
the first six months of the Project. Additional staff may also be obtained
from volunteer agencies or FAO. Consideration would be given to utilize
savings on staff salaries for construction of staff housing in Juba and Yei
(para 3.03).
5.20      With the increased staff requirements, problems are foreseen when
a large number of personnel is being provided from different sources on vary-
ing terms. In order to ensure the retention of staff and successful new



- 30 -
recruitment, Government will review its employment terms for internationally
recruited staff. The most important aspects would be that an agreed percent-
age of total emoluments would be payable directly into an external account,
that in emergency cases the Project would provide transport to outside the
country and that dependent children of Project staff are allowed one free
visit per annum to the duty station and that staff have access to imported
food. The Regional Government agreed during negotiations to pursue the
matter with the appropriate Government authorities in order to have a satis-
factory arrangement.
Local Staff
5.21      In view of the severe shortage of local professional staff, con-
siderable emphasis would be placed on in-service training. Local graduate
staff would act as deputies with specific responsibilities rather than as
counterparts to internationally recruited staff. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from Government that not later than December 31,
1979:
(a)  administrative guidelines will be established for up-
grading certificate-level staff to fill diplomate posts
and diplomates to fill graduate posts; and
(b)  the Rumbek Institute will standardize its curricula
for certificate-level staff with that of the Yei
Agricultural Training Institute.
Key Staff
5.22      During negotiations assurances were obtained that Government will
obtain the Association's approval for the appointment or replacement of the
Project Director. Government will also consult with the Association prior
to engaging staff for the following posts: Chief Planning Adviser, Deputy
Project Director, Financial Controller, Assistant Project Directors, Chief
Crop Development Officer, Chief Extension Officer, Chief Veterinary Officer,
Chief Livestock Production Officer and Chief Civil Works Engineer.
VI. CROP AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARMER BENEFITS
A. Crops
Agronomy and Yields
6.01      Projections of crop yields and incremental production of foodcrops,
(mainly sorghum, maize, groundnuts, sesame, cassava and rice), cotton and
coffee are based on anticipated adoption by farmers of a package of improved
crop husbandry practices. The packages require the use of: good seed of
improved varieties, correct plant populations, sowing and weeding at the right



- 31 -
time, better crop storage, and adequate supply of hand tools and the introduc-
tion of work oxen in appropriate areas, also cotton spraying and coffee prun-
ing and mulching. These packages would be introduced through strengthened
extension in the four development phase districts to enter the RSADP under
the Project: Yei in the Greenbelt and Wau, Rumbek and Gogrial in tAe Ironstone
Plateau/Floodplain area. The coffee and cotton components are spread over
the Greenbelt area.
6.02      Although improved yields from new varieties have been obtained under
the research program of the Rehabilitation project, limited information exists
on farmer base yields and the constraints to adopting improved practices.
However, the demand for improved maize and groundnut seed is witness to their
efficacy. New sorghum varieties are in demand on a more limited basis, due
to little yield improvement in some areas and to farmers' reluctance to change
from proven local varieties. For groundnuts, the Makulu Red, and in drier
areas Mani Pintar varieties, have done very well, as have Nigerian and Katumani
Composites for maize. The Serena sorghum variety is being released by PDU in
some areas; but reselection of traditional varieties for sorghum, finger
millet and sesame seems the best approach. Upland rice is grown successfully
in the Yambio area and applied research is being carried out on the crop at
Bor under a Dutch aid project, which would be able to make seed available for
possible distribution in Bahr-el-Ghazal province. Virus free varieties of
cassava and of the major foodcrops are also needed.
6.03      In the light of limited available evidence, the following table
indicates the present yield levels, and those expected to be gradually
attained by farmers over a four year period using the recommended packages
of improved seed and cultural practices:
Estimated Yields of Major Crops: lb/f
Ironstone Plateau,
Greenbelt            Floodplain Fringe
(Rainfall + 1,400 mm/yr)  (Rainfall + 900 mm/yr)
Without      With         Without        With
Project     Project       Project       Project
Sorghum                     600          900          500           800
Ratoon Sorghum              900        1,400            -            -
Maize                       600        1,100          400           700
Finger Millet               400          600          400           600
Groundnuts (in shell)       600        1,000          400           600
Sesame                      300          400          300           400
Cassava flour             1,700        2,700        1,400         2,000
Pulses                      300          400          300           400
Rice - Upland               600          900           600          900
Cotton - unsprayed          300          -             -             -
Cotton - sprayed            500          900           -             _



- 32 -
Farm Budget
6.04      With the benefit of strengthened extension services, and results
from sub-center and on-farm trials, the packages would be revised and improved
to suit specific environmental conditions and farmers' needs. Attention
would be given to the whole farm and the cropping mix to ensure that recom-
mended changes reflect primarily higher returns to man-hour inputs rather than
per feddan, and can be absorbed in the farm family labor profile.  The farm
budgets, prepared to reflect improved Project performance in the two main
ecological zones, thus include attention to man-day requirements of the
various crops, and also take into account the effect on nutritional require-
ments in view of the need to first satisfy subsistence needs.
Incremental Production
6.05      Four districts would enter the development phase during the life
of the Project, where each extension agent would be expected to cover 750
farm families. Of this total, 240 farm families would adopt improved practices
over a four year period, rising to about 400 or a 53% adoption rate by the
seventh year after entering the development phase (e.g., Yei district in Year
7, Gogrial in Year 10). For each adopter, yield increases would be achieved
gradually over a four year period. For purposes of calculation, half the
yield increase is ascribed to the first three years of adoption and full
incremental yields are realized from the fourth year onwards (e.g.: full
anticipated benefits accrue to Yei district by Year 10, to Gogrial by Year
13). For the four districts the following incremental yields are expected:
Incremental Production (Tons) from
Four Districts in the Development Phase
District       No. of
entering      Overseers           Greenbelt               Ironstone
Year    program       (Cumulative)    Foodcrops    Cotton    Plateau Foodcrops
1      Yei incl. Mundri 30                 687         114           -
2        -               30              1,374        228            -
3      Wau, Rumbek       80              2,748        456            760
4      Gogrial          110              4,809         798         1,976
13 onwards               110             13,740      2,280         24,320
6.06      Regional Seed Distribution.  The distribution of improved seed
would not be limited to RSADP districts (para 2.05). After Project needs are
satisfied, seed would be available to achieve the following production by
Year 10:
Improved    Improved  Improved
Groundnuts  Sorghum    Maize
Total Area Planted (feddan)                       18,300    38,000    45,000
Area per farmer (feddan)                           0.25       0.40      0.40
Number of farmers                                 73,200    95,000   112,500
Incremental production per feddan (lbs)              350        150       250
Total incremental production (tons)                3,200      2,860     5,625



- 33 -
In addition, there would be an informal spread of improved seed which cannot
readily be quantified. Project seed would be made available to other RSADP
projects or through existing Government facilities on a cash basis. The
practice of selling seed at subsidized prices must not be continued. Prices
would be established by PDU and would reflect the economic cost. They would
be higher than the crop prices in order to discourage consumption as food.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that such seed will not be sold
at subsidized prices.
6.07      Smallholder Coffee Program.  Incremental coffee production would
come largely from increasing the area under rainfed smallholder coffee by
planting a further 3,000 feddan during the life of the Project. With yields
expected to increase to 300 lbs per feddan in the third year after planting
and up to 800 lb/f at maturity six years after planting, incremental produc-
tion from this source would rise from 120 tons in Year 3 to 1,200 tons in
Year 9. The increased extension efforts in existing coffee (3,500 feddan
planted under the Rehabilitation project) are expected to increase yields
by 50 lb/f in the fifth year and 100 lb/f in the sixth year after planting,
amounting to additional incremental production of 175 tons when all existing
coffee reaches maturity (Project Year 5). Irrigated coffee would be produced
only on a research basis on one or two cooperatives and though increased
production of a further 200 lb/f is anticipated, no incremental benefits are
included.
6.08      Smallholder Cotton Program.  Incremental cotton production would
come from increased yields on existing cotton through a spray program and
improved cultural practices. Apart from assistance to EPAPC in Western
Equatoria prior to its restructuring under the proposed ODM project, the
program would be confined to Eastern Equatoria province. In addition to the
incremental production included in Yei district (para 6.05), a further 2,400
farmers would be expected to produce an additional 532 tons of seed cotton
during the life of the Project.
Markets and Prices
6.09      The majority of foodcrops produced under the Project would be con-
sumed by farmers, while a small proportion would be sold in local markets.
Some 20,000 tons of sorghum (including that produced at Renk) are at present
imported annually into the Region for urban consumers, but this does not
represent the real shortfall, as many farmers are short of food just when
it is not available or when they do not have the means to buy it. In view of
supply shortages and poor communications between numerous isolated markets,
grain prices fluctuate markedly during the season. By improving supplies,
the Project would help to minimize these fluctuations. Foodcrop prices
used in the financial farm models reflect farmgate prices after the harvest,
and are shown in the table below:



- 34 -
Crop Prices ESd per Ton
Farmgate    Range in Markets
Prices      during 1977/78
Sorghum                            60         45    -    150
Maize                              55          35    -    160
Finger Millet                      55         70    -    155
Cassava flour                      50         45    -    130
Groundnuts                         75         70    -    230
Sesame                            130        130    -    270
Beans                             120         110    -    230
Rice                               90         -      -     -
6.10      Cotton would be sold to the EPAPC which requires increased produc-
tion to keep its present processing capacity fully operational. Present
cotton prices are five piasters per pound for Grade I seed cotton, giving
a price of f3Sd 100 per ton. Input costs for cotton spraying would not be
charged directly to the farmers but recovered through a cess built into the
buying price by EPAPC who would then reimburse PDU. Arrangements for the
recovery of the cess would be negotiated with EPAPC or its successor insti-
tution on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
6.11      Coffee is purchased by private traders at an average price of
25 piasters per lb, giving a farmgate price of hSd 500 per ton. This is sold
in Northern Sudan, which imports annually some 10 - 15,000 tons; thus Project
incremental production of 1,375 tons would replace only a small proportion
of the country's import requirements.
B. Livestock
6.12      The Project's livestock activities are primarily those of survey
and pilot research, so production benefits would largely accrue in later
phase projects. The cattle disease survey would enable more effective
vaccination programs to be mounted, but assistance to the Veterinary Depart-
ment in supporting ongoing vaccinations and drug supply, together with the
training of stockmen would contribute to reducing cattle mortality during
the life of the Project. It is expected that disease control activities
would concentrate on responding to disease outbreaks, and with the benefit
of the new diagnostic centers for analysis of specimens and Project logisti-
cal support, rapid immunization programs could be carried out. Although it
is difficult to quantify such benefits, it has been assumed that this would
reduce present overall herd mortality rates by one quarter of one percent
by Project Year 3, which would thereafter save 11,375 cattle annually with
a total value of hSd 284,375 at ESd 25 each.
6.13      The 100 cow pilot dairy herd at Marial Bai assumes lactations of
1,000 kg for the Butana cattle and 1,500 kg for the crossbreds which reach
maturity in Year 4. During the life of the Project this would enable from



- 35 -
68,000 to 91,000 kg of milk to be sold in Wau each year, production varying
from 186 to 250 kg of milk per day per annum. The pilot ranch activities
would also market between 470 - 530 steers and 100 - 160 sheep annually
during the life of the Project.
Market and Prices
6.14      At present due to the long and difficult stock routes to markets,
average livestock prices in Southern Sudan are considerably below those in
the North. The overall price level in producing areas such as Upper Nile
and Bahr-el-Ghazal averages LSd 30 per head of cattle rising to LSd 60 in
major consuming centers such as Juba, Yei or Maridi. Lately prices of over
LSd 100 have been recorded.  The price level of cattle in Khartoum averages
vSd 70 per steer arriving in good physical condition.  For cattle, this price
relationship is based on the costs and risks of trekking whereas for sheep,
which cannot be trekked over such distances, there is a much wider disparity
in price. Sheep and goats sell from LSd 2-4 per head in the South, whereas in
the export oriented Northern market sheep prices averaged LSd 23 in Omdurman
in March 1978.
6.15      The pilot livestock marketing component seeks to reduce the risks
and weight loss inherent in cattle trekking and enable profitable sheep export
by moving stock by barge from the Southern Region to Kosti. A motorized barge,
to be commissioned in Project Year 2, capable of carrying 120 head of cattle
and up to 500 sheep, would be able to move an estimated 6,000 cattle and 12,500
small stock during the last two years of the Project. Traders have expressed
great interest in moving stock this way and are willing to pay transport
charges of LSd 6 per head for cattle, and LSd 1.50 per sheep.  Projections
indicate that this would be a profitable venture, especially when allowing for
transporting sorghum or other food as a back load to the South. Cattle
purchased are expected to weigh an average of 250 kg and sheep 25 kg. By
avoiding trekking, weight loss savings of 30 kg per head have been assumed for
cattle, and 4 kg per head for sheep.
C. Farmer Benefits
6.16      The Project would bring about significant agricultural development
in the Southern Region of the Sudan, building on the foundations laid by the
Rehabilitation and associated projects and initiating the first phase of a
twenty year RSADP program that is directed at improving the lot of the large
mass of subsistence farmers and pastoralists. The main thrust of the Project
would be increased production of food crops and improved nutrition. In the
four districts entering the RSADP development phase, 44,000 farm families
would eventually (by Year 13) benefit. Some 32,000 farmers in the Ironstone
Plateau would receive incomes averaging a 75% increase rising from vSd 100 per
annum at present to LSd 175 per annum with improvements.  Since much of the



- 36 -
present bSd 100 is spent on subsistence, this represents a very big increase
in disposable income. At present as the average production has only 2,600
calories per person per day available, in poor years nutrition would be
inadequate, and the increase to a potential of 4,000 calories removes the
danger of famine, and provides a regular surplus for cash sale. For the
12,000 farmers in the Greenbelt the increase, depending on the crop mix, is
from bSd 160 - bSd 220 to iSd 240 - bSd 340, an increase of 1fSd 100 - bSd 120
per annum. This gives an increased return of 55% and a 25% increase to labor,
as well as an assured food supply with potential calories per person per day
increasing from 3,500 to 5,500. During the four year life of the Project, the
beneficiaries reached would comprise 4,400 farmers on the Ironstone Plateau
and 7,200 farmers in the Greenbelt and improved seed would also be made
available to 25,000 farmers outside these districts. Three thousand new
coffee farmers would obtain increased incomes of ESd 200 per year, while
another 3,500 existing coffee farmers would receive an additional ESd 25 per
year. A further 2,400 cotton farmers receive an additional ESd 36 per annum
from incremental cotton production. Project support to improved animal
disease control is assumed to reduce herd mortality rates by a quarter of one
percent, which is equivalent to increasing annual income by bSd 25 for some
11,000 pastoralists (Table 4).
D. Environmental Impact
6.17      The Project would have an overall beneficial impact on the environ-
ment in the Region. Improved physical planning under the PFU would contribute
to better resource use, and the range ecology survey would indicate which
areas are in danger of overgrazing and which have higher grazing potential.
It would aim to further soil and water conservation by better husbandry
practices, and improve living conditions through crop and nutrition extension.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Analysis
7.01      The Project's main quantifiable benefits would be increased pro-
duction of food and cash crops and savings in livestock mortality (paras 6.05 -
6.08 and 6.12). Based on projected export/import parity prices (para 7.02),
these benefits would result in foreign exchange earnings/savings of about
US$15.0 million per annum at full development in 1991/92. After allowance
is made for the foreign exchange component of operating costs needed to sus-
tain the Project after the development period, net foreign exchange earnings/
savings would be about US$13 million per annum. The Project would also have
a number of other benefits which are more difficult to quantify, the principal
one being improved nutrition and reduction in occasional famine conditions.



- 37 -
The Project's roads and marketing and facilities would also produce benefits
beyond those included in the rate of return calculation, and the emphasis
on institution building and training would further improve the Region's
capacity to implement development projects.
7.02      The economic rate of return of the Project is estimated to be 15%
over 20 years. In calculating the rate of return, all costs which are yield
related were included. Thus, the full costs of coffee and cotton develop-
ment, seed production, crop research, agricultural extension and nutrition,
rural services division, crop marketing, development support media, Yei
Agricultural Training Institute, Stockman Training School and animal health
control were included. Only 50% of the cost of the PDU headquarters, feeder
road construction and building units were included as half of their activi-
ties are not for production related activities. Excluded are planning and
preparatory activities, which comprise the PFU, the Range Ecology survey and
preparatory phase activities in new districts, the cattle disease survey, the
pilot livestock production activities at Marial Bai and pilot livestock mar-
keting. The rate of return is thus based on about 58% of Project base costs.
The 5% physical contingency was also included. In the almost complete absence
of alternative employment opportunities, farm family labor was valued at 30
piasters per man-day, the average return to subsistence agriculture. Economic
prices for the major crops and farm livestock were derived from IBRD projected
prices on an export or import parity basis depending on whether Sudan is an
exporter (most cereal grains, oilseeds, cotton and livestock) or an importer
(coffee and rice). Production of sorghum, which, unlike the sorghum traded
internationally, is of human food quality in the Sudan, was valued at maize
prices, as was millet. Production of cassava flour and of beans, which are
not traded internationally, were valued at 1978 local market prices corrected
for seasonal fluctuation. Internationally recruited staff were valued at
their full economic cost of US$60,000 per annum instead of the blend figure of
US$50,000 used for financial calculations (para 4.04). Foreign exchange was
valued at the rate of iSd 1 = US$1.75, compared to the prevailing rate of
exchange of fSd 1 = US$2.00, to reflect trade restrictions.
B. Project Risks
7.03      From past experience, the risks most likely to affect the Project
are twofold: delays in Project implementation or lower production caused by
lower than anticipated yields and farmer adoption rates. To recruit sufficient
technical assistance staff and retain them in the Region would be essential
together with better logistical support and fuel supplies to ensure timely and
well supervised Project implementation. To test the effect of delayed imple-
mentation, the rate of return was recalculated with a one year delay in the
build-up of the benefit stream, which reduced the rate of return to 11.5%.
The identification of the source of all technical assistance staff by the time
the Project is to start, the provision of better conditions of service of
such staff, the improved procedures for procurement through Nairobi, and the



- 38 -
US$1 million initial disbursement facility are all designed to minimize the
risk of delayed implementation. Lowering crop returns by 20% to reflect lower
yields and adoption rates reduced the rate of return to 9%. Combining a
year's delay in benefits with 20% lower crop returns reduced the rate of
return to 6%. The increased supply of improved seed, advance selection and
training of extension staff, media support and measures to remove the present
shortage of handtools would lessen the risk of there being a shortfall in
anticipated increased crop yields. In view of the Project's potential to
bring about significant improvement in the living standards of some of Sudan's
poorest farmers and pastoralists, these risks are considered acceptable.
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMIMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations it was agreed that:
(a) once the Cooperative Bank and/or the Agricultural Bank of
Sudan, Juba Branch, become operative, the Project will
hand over the credit activities to one or both of these
institutions in accordance with a schedule to be agreed
upon with the Association (para 3.17);
(b) MCTS will provide technical advice to PDU's extension
staff with regard to future farmers' associations and
cooperatives (para 3.18);
(c) any expenditures incurred by PDU and not eligible for
reimbursement under the Credit, will be replenished by
Government to maintain PDU's revolving fund for working
capital (para 4.06);
(d) Government will undertake to study the long-term budgetary
implications of all agricultu'ral development projects in
the Region (para 4.07);
(e) the procurement procedures proposed under this Project
will be followed (para 4.08);
(f) for disbursements against certificates of expenditures,
auditors' opinions will be submitted (para 4.11);
(g) separate accounts will be kept by PDU reflecting the
expenditures financed by the different agencies and
such accounts will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and be furnished to the
Association not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year (para 4.14);



- 39 -
(h) PDU will prepare implementation/progress reports for
the Association and other co-financiers (para 4.15);
(i) within three months of completion of disbursements
under the Project, M1OA will submit to the Association a
Project Completion Report (para 4.16);
(j) the Project Director will be at the rank of Director in
the Ministry and will have the same powers as other
Directors of the Ministry (para 5.02);
(k) an RSADP Executive Committee empowered as recommended
will be set up (para 5.04);
(1) Government will provide all land required by the
Project (para 5.07);
(m) annual work plans and subsequent changes of substance
will be submitted to the Association for review and
approval (para 5.08);
(n) appointment of staff to Grade 8 or higher and the selection
of existing or proposed PDU staff for fellowship training
overseas will be made through the "staff appointment com-
mittee" (para 5.09);
(o) Government will strengthen the Project's procurement office
in Nairobi, maintain a radio link with Nairobi and issue
yearly charter plane landing permits (para 5.11);
(p) by December 31, 1979, administrative guidelines will be
established to upgrade certificate-level staff to fill
diplomate posts and diplomates to fill graduate posts
(para 5.21(a));
(q) the Rumbek Institute will standardize by December 31, 1979
its curricula for certificate-level staff with that of the
Yei Agricultural Training Institute (para 5.21(b));
(r) the appointment or replacement of the Project Director will
be made after approval by the Association, and Government
will consult with the Association to engage the following
staff: Chief Planning Adviser, Deputy Project Director,
Assistant Project Directors, Financial Controller, Chief
Crop Development Officer, Chief Extension Officer, Chief
Veterinary Officer, Chief Livestock Production Officer and
Chief Civil Works Engineer (para 5.22);
(s) seed will not be sold at subsidized prices (para 6.06).



- 40 -
8.02      During negotiations it was agreed that before any disbursements
would be made under the livestock marketing component, Government will
prepare a plan for the organization of livestock marketing satisfactory to
the Association (paras 3.30 and 4.12).
8.03      It is a condition of effectiveness that Government will appoint
the Director General. The post has already been filled and only official
notification needs to be received by the Association (para 5.02).
8.04      With the above assurances, the Project is suitable for an IDA Credit
of US$15 million to the Government of Sudan.



SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURME PROJECT
ProJect Inplncntati.. Schedule
Yea  I                                     Yea  2                                     'dear 3                                    Year 4Y-                            
1978  1979 1st 1979 Znd 1979 3rd 1979 4th 1980 lot 1980 2cd 1980 3rd 1980 4th 1981 l.t 1981 2nd 1981 3rd 1981 4th 1982 lst 1982 2.d 1982 3rd 1982 41~h 1983 "   198.3 2,nd 8   rd18   t
P. REPARATORSY ARRANGEORBNTS
Id-ntift-ation of co-financ ier and egreent
of Proje-t no----t.
Foodicg acd -ourc of key staff .c..rcd
Negotiation. of lIDA Credit - Marh 1979                                            -
IDA Boerd appr.v.1 - April 1979                                                        -
II. PROJECT PELATED ACTIVITIES
Appotutoot oR Di-et-c G-cu  liA kpora 5.02)
Appoicto-t acd/cr S-coit  of key staff
Tr-nfer of oorki.g napita1 i.t  P'OU-a accouts (sara 4.86)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
R.crolioent ond apoticcoet of ensi-  staff                           I.-------
Civil docks cocstruction
R-gr    Cu-lugy    S -ovy                                                                                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Cattle Di-sase Soroey
Crop sod liretonlk develpment aetivities
Coosissiociug of litoestok  ark.tissg b.rge
Feeder Rood Contr-cioss Tom  N.. 1 to oporotion
Feeder Road Construction Tr-  No. 2 in op.ration                                                                                          _______________
A-..I  -kri  pi.n sobeRoels  Rn IDA
Co .  t.eEd    *t.dy    -     BodgeEar7    RsplRe-tROS                                                                          - -                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
April 12, 1979



SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Project Relationshii to the Regional Ministry of Agricultural and Natural Resources
Minister|
Director General
Directorof - Direcor of       Drectr ofO                                                                                                                             Parasttata
-----          ------- -DireDirecto                          r of      Directo     r       irco of                         Director oDlstrof                 organisatloms
Agri|ultur  PDU   If  Rsources             Forestry            FIsheries            De  e      t            reAdpin stration                             Authorityel
Boards
Deputy                   Deputy                                                                     tyDpy
Director                 Director                                     e                        Director                          Director
Re search and             Planning and                              Planning                   Agricultural                           Range
Training 31              Marketing                                 Adviser                   Economics and                     Manageent and
_________--_  Technical Liaison
Technical Advice
1/ For organisation of PDU see Cbart 3.
2/ Project supported activities are the Animal Health Program.
3/  Project supported activities are the Malakal Stockman Training School.
April 6, 1979



- 43 -             CHART 3
LX L
0             -3
0          <0
0X0.00 0



SUDAN
SOUiliERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Suvamary of Project COot Estimates
Reference:                                                                                                     Foreign Exchange
Component                                    Annex/Table             Year I           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Total                X         Total
Project Formulation, Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit                                    Annex 3/Table 1             324,784          317,838         291,713          291,713         1,226,048               77       947,783
Range Ecology Survey                                 Annex 3/Table 2              89,072           54,864           57,864          67,864            269,664              83       226,347
PDU Headquarters                                     Annex 4/Table 1             388,435          327,880          287,280          315,780        1,319,375               76     1,015,531
Crop Development Activities in Yei                   Annex 5/Table 15            406,472          237,912          257,412          260,412         1,162,208              74       855,011
Foodcrop Research in Yei and Mar-di/Yambio           Annex 5/Table 16            340,090          227,251          250,851          224,751         1,042,943              66       691,086
Crop Developeent Activities in Rumbek                Annex 5/Table 17            113,983           48,438           54,003           59,603           276,027              39       107,122
Crop Development Activities in Toni                  Annex 5/Table 18               -                -              75,940           59,144           135,084              65        87,158
Crop Development Activities in Halima                Annex 5/Table 19            483,137          335,417          341,951          332,676         1,493,181              76     1,129,684
Crop Development Activities in Cogrial               Annex 5/Table 20            133,962           51,432           46,992          64,317            296,703              42       123,711
Crop Development Activities in Bentiu                Annex 5/Table 21               -              59,908           52,009           35,374           147,291              55        80,942
Crop Development - Coffee                            Annex 6/Table 2             260,953          180,396          163,956          168,696           774,001              35       275,021
Crop Development - Cotton                            Annex 7/Table 1             211,946           68,306          85,506           63,306            429,064              67       285,969
Crop Development _ Seed Production                   Annex 8/Table 8             137,318          126,481          102,352          103,323           469,474              25       120,115
4:-
Rural Services - Extension                           Annex 9/Table 1             105,913           57,078          48,578           61,578            273,147              77       210,913         .,
Rural Services - Nutrition                           Annex 9/Table 2            258,073           157,599         144,599           164,099           724,370              71       515,987
Crop Marketing, Cooperatives, Credit and
Farm Input Supplies                                Annex 10/Table 1           221,870           367,729         290,937          276,237         1,156,773               53       618,666
Development Support Media                            Annex Il/Table 1           246,240          102,959            70,339           76,839          496,377               80       398,760
Training and Staff Development                       Annex 12/Table 6            251,044          122,797         131,377          146,377            651,595              60       381,211
Animal Health Program                                Annex 13/Table 1            379,097          178,546          177,546         160,546            895,735              70       627,494
Malakal Stocknan Training School                     Annex 13/Table 2             87,159           39,688           28,188           29,488           184,523              41         76,948
Veterinary Laboratory Servicea and Cattle
Disease Survey                                     Ainnex 14/Table 1          757,119          593,217          707,107          607,107         2,664,550               86     2,292,153
Livestock Production - Marla1 Bel Administration   Annex 15/Table 8             142,889            76,453          59,953           59,953            339,248              72       244,905
Livestock Production - Mrial Bat Ranch              Annex 15/Table 9           118,895           85,855           50,065           50,065            304,880              53       161.678
Livestock Production - Dairy Ranching                Annex 15/Table 10           109,703          46,518           37,828           43,218           237,267               66       156,846
Livestock Marketing                                  Annex 16/Table 1           250,095          385,030          168,971          183,771           987,867               87       860,054
Secondary and Feeder Road Construction               Annex 17/Table 4           960,779          844,022          521,652          468,852         2,795,305               77     2,139,416
The Building Unit                                    Annex 18/Table 2           545,165          226,025          220,868          196,972         1,189,030               81       962,690
Project Preparation                                                             400,000             -                -                -              400,000              100       400,0(0
iase Cost                                                                     7,724,193        5,319,639        4,725,837        4,572,061         22,341,730              70    15,993,201      IM
Physical Contingencies                                                          366,913          263,632          236,093          228,905         1,095,543               76       836,113
Price Contingencies                                                             743,491          898,869        1,233,971        1,638,805         4,515,136               70     3,145,180
iIiTAL COST                                                                   8.834.597        6.482,140        6.195.901        6,439,771        27,952,409               70    19,974 494
January 26, 1979



N                                          Et -         N =   NN K   0  80 ZEE
wo             zo          o00  o              ( 0o0                  0         N                  01    0 Z0            0(0         10                      10(0100                0o  o       o
00I  I.                                                                                                                                                                    -- 0.  -(.(.(0-0---  ( (--0
Nt I                                                                                   0
0j.  10 ,-00                                            0 
2~~~~~ -   zl -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - - -  -------                                          ---------                       ---------------------------- -
0.    0.0.  0..      ..      .. 
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
oI-11  '0(0(0 0 1(0(0(0(0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l.0(0       '           1      (0 ~         ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~    ~ ~~ 'd'
I                                           ooV
*]'00((.00(((00((~000(000'(0 0 0'(000(.00l.(00'((00.(
=    o  oo    .   44     -  '   4   o   4   0             4    0   -   .   4   4    4   .   4  4       4   -4     1    4   -   .   -    4   0    4   0    0   4    .  .    4   (    0    4    0
10!                                                          n   m  -        D s               e  ei =                                                                      =   >  o    v           
0(0e                                                                  V  V44001011 V(00'ob                      ao__         U  ¢ s.      w.       
- (0l0.044aB0v
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V V  IS0
'00                                                                             4444-444444                                           (0(0(0~~~~~~~~~=3
10 w.    00. v0    Z                             0           0_ocv                                             W        ns        QrDQvQQ                        MXn
_   X siz  W  v S_< . Q  ' ' '0                                                                                                                          0.                             00
6~~~~~~ 00                                                                                                               -00'Y0          v   fv#3<v     fz2a3<wm_><3_  3o;Xf-_oooXf,-






SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Summary of Farm Models-/
Model                                Unimproved Production                          Improved Production
Greenbelt                      Value bSd    Man-days    Piaster/Md.        Value bSd    Man-days    Piaster/Md.         Increased Income tSd
Basic Model 2                      223         440             50               330         590             56                   107
With Cotton 3/                     222         469             48               335         650             52                   113
With Rice 4/                       226         440              s 50            335         630             53                   109
Ironstone Plateau
Basic Model                       111          327             31              163          456             36                    62
Using Upland Rice -/              111          334             33               172         457             38                    61                   I
Nutritional Value per person per day                                                                                  Potential Increased
k  6/                                                                                 Calories
Greenbelt                  Total Calories- Gr.Protein   Gr. Fat   Total CaloriesA/ Gr.Protein             Gr. Fat
Basic Model                     3,600           70             60            5,700         113              90                2,100
With Cotton                     3,000           58             60            5.000           94             90                2,000
With Rice                       3,500           63             60            5,500         101              90                2,000
Ironstone Plateau
Basic Model                     2,700           60             55            4,250         106             101                1,550
Using Upland Rice               2,600           50             40            3,900           82             63                1,300
1/ Further details are given in Tables 5 and 6 and in the Implementation
Volume, Annex 5, Tables 6, 7, 8 and 9.
2/The base model includes maize, sorghum, finger millet,
groundnuts, beans,sesame, cassava and coffee (see Table 5),
3/In this mode] cotton replaces some of sorghum and beans (see Table 5).
4/In this model rice replaces some of sorghum and beans (see Table 5).
5/In this model upland rice replaces additional groundnuts (see Table 6).
6/Includes 37% from cassava in the Greenbelt Model, and 43% from cassava
in the Ironstone Plateau unimproved declining to 41% in the improved.
April 16, 1979



soFtml REGION AGRICUL1URE PROJECt
gCecebelt your ?cddan P.m t4odel: Hanower reqiremeotm. Yields  nd returns
75     150     190     170     180     210      180     150     60      15       10      30 cm riin/oonth                               !      dAra-d
lWr    Apr    NW    10s    JUI'    Aug    Sept           Oct   Nov      Dee      Jan     Feb
lb/O.87              ld6                     1D                     *Bd
w4i0-loc. gr. nuts    9   5        ,       7   8   8                                                                                       Was            320 /O08P           9 /0.8                590 /0.8     ,         16  /0.8F
12 u         3      11 11                                                                                          Or. zrute       320   '             22      '              530                     19    -
P. aIlet.sorg.                                  4 7        8    5           1     714    1   61 4                                      F. mdllet       220 "               6   *                 3209
4 110      0  6            11 9 6       1     86                                      SorTgt          e70o                 8   -                440                     144
Rat. sorgh             8           1 11  6 4                                                                                             Sorghum         320                                                                                        co15  80   n  22  *
8     111~~ 86
Adk-.sorg;1                                 68         5    7            '    4 4                1  1153    10                         Aduki           110 r               9   *                 160                     13
910             4           6    6 6                11 7         i d                      BSorghum        320   *             100                   430 w                   15
Peo6 66                                                8    5            111 8  8                  10                                  Rice            480                22                     720   0                 33
98         8    7           11 21210                  16
Cotton                                      6 5       10    7                    416       5    5     3       10                       Cotton          240   a                  0-
6 s        8    511           1      78        8   6103          10
910        8    511           1    10 13      10    9122b        16                                       40oo                18                     720   "                 33
P. ad111.-gr.outs     U  lo  I.                1 8   Ii    10    7                                                                        F    io          2                                         2 
P. K1.-6.rst    11.86                 1110             22 4  10    7r, llet                                                                         220  "        '      6   "                 320   *                  9
14    8   6           1  110  5       12   12                                                                       Gr. nruto       320   *2   *                              530             -       19
Bes.-ceasaa                                                  l2     10        I        8      4                                        Seme           160   *3 U                    *           220                     21
16     8         7        9      5
Csecas a    Uftag. cleasn±g. wasing whn neded MAo j i'b1e; tota1:                                  90od          88                       Cassava        1360   *                       *16o                                       0
170"          88137                                                                                                        .
Coffee ostabl"l!n.             5  2  3                             5                                             6
7  31                              7                                              13
Coffee product.                                                         6 8  10    16 8 1  16  6  3    7                                  coffee    160- 480e  *         29e 4  86" *.- .40 640 *343                             1.25-
a                                      11 8         8  6          113      0 10-4U
8S/4F, Fa.      d      Piaot/nd                    IS/4F. fern   wenday    Piaat/nd
Total l  Ads sarg 40 2 4 i            18      33      39       12      49              2        89  1   28  18  26   AdMzukisornu                266 _ -223    44a    40 -4 50                       258   330    59od  44 1 56 3
50      21.     22      1.7     50      50       4.9     13      21      39      25            orrc                          6-26          110     1045                         5...25        60      13.
Totallncl. rtce       40      14      18      33      37       43      49      24      27      28      21       26
50      24      21      4?      48      53       49      35      37      39      32       29   or cotton                   158 -4 215    445       35-47                        -       -      -       -      -4
Total mel. cotton    40       A1      18      33      36 4?     7       9      21      21      33      27       26   sprayed cotton              165-4 222 4 69          35-* 48                     258  .  335   65o      40     52
1.0    11.      18       3      36      1.7     51       22      2630                    26
50      24      21       7      50      51       31      32      311 h                     5                                                                        :
Jt Adnakl   2s 6,m   1979   u l)
January 26, 1979



SITDAN
SOUTIERN REGION A(RICULTIJRE PROJECT
Ironstone Platea. Four Feddan Farm M6odel: Xan.ovr requirements, vlelds and retura
Unimproved
25      70     140      140      180     170      140      80       20      10      -        10 k  :ain/l.cth
Ya-nays                      gar     Apr     May    June    July       Aug     Sept      Oct     Nov     Dec      Jan     Feb                                      lb/O.8F         LS                           lb/0.8F    LS
Finger mill.-sorg                   4       4 7         8       5        1  1 7 4         1   6       4     10                                  Fing.mill       220            6                             320              9
6       6 1o      10       6         1 1 9 6         1   8        6     16                                 sorghum          270           8                              1430           14
Maize - beans                 3 8      5       5             4     4    4  5          3           10                                            maize           220            6                             320             10
4 10    11       3            6     6   6    7         4            16                                           bean,            160          1A                              220            18
'?Lnf rice                           6  6     4 4      5                11  1   8    8           10                                        (rice            480)         (22)                           (720)           (33)
9 8       55      7                 11 2   12   10          16
,ro -1.=tx                      3         6   55          3                          10        7         7                                     Gronuts         320           12                             640             24
6        8    3 3        6                           12      12         11
sesaez - casac                                      6 6        10       5            8   4                                                      sesame          160           13                             220             21
88         8       7            9   5
assss:,                 limting, cleaning, vashing when needed sad possible; total:  70 od                           55                        cascara        1120           30                            1600             43
100                            88
Flnrirter               10 10    8                  4  12                5        1  1  2   15    12                                            flood rice                                                  1200            55
LS/4F   d/j4F  Pi&st/Nd         LS/4F   MAYLfE   FiLst/!d
Total mil. tTpl. rice            18      27       36       26      19      27       35       25      24      17       10                        Using Upland
26      42      37       3?      20       33       46      35       38      27      16                          rice                 111     334     33              172       457      38
-    e    gro.d~nuts           21      21       38       21      19      25        37      24      14       24      10                        Using  ddirtonai
1.6If               32      34      40        36      20      31       44       37      28      38       16                         groUndnuts           101     327      31             163       456      36
Using                                                 -27      58        4
Flood.          26      31      40        38      31      32       39       40      36      17      10                          fl;Lg                                                 227      538      42
rice            34      K6      hi        49      32      38       50      50       50      27      16
January 26, 19 79
C'



- 50 -
Table 7
'SUDIAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Volume of Incremental Crop Production
(Tons)
YEAR
1        2          3            4          TOTAL
Crop
Sorghum                      175      513       1,094        2,034        3,816
Millet                        27        54        148          294          523
Maize                        346      965       1,635        2,633        5,579
Cassava (flour)              216      432       1,080        2,074        3,802
Groundnuts (unshelled)       145      425       1,147        2,358        4,075
Sesame                        16       32          92          184          324
Beans                         14       27          81          165          287
Rice                          15       30          90          183          318
Cotton                       152      303         608        1,064        2,127
Coffee                        25       75         240          372          712
January 26, 1979



£OdPiii189 0*lNW111 AGRICULTUREi ?b.liEtL
foonooJc Costs and beneflt, (In 1978 Constant 654 00,)
PRoTECT COST                    1           2            3           4            5           6            7            8           9              10         11           L2                   13 - 20
ip13 HCi  (504)                 212.8       179.5        157.3       172.9        165.5       153.4        151.4        162.4       103.8          93.0         85.0         98.4                   95.0
Cotton D-evebopnnlt             229,b        74.0        92.7         68.6         83.3        68.3         83.3         63.3        58.3          43.3         58.3         38.3                   49.5
Coffee Pe-elop.ent              272.3       188.3        171.2       176.1        164.3       130.4        IP8.4        16o.6       139.3         105.4        103.4        135.6                  120.9
Seed Prod-ction                 143.3       130.5       105.6        106.5        115.0       110.2        101.7        102.0       115.0         110.2        101.7        lo2.8                  107.4
Crop rIevelop-nt                444.5       260.2       281.5        284.8        334.2       260.2        281.5        284.8       334.2         26o.2        281.5        284.8                  290.2
Cr-p De-eiopn-nt - Rucbek        98.4        29.0        36.9         40.8         36.1        34.2         34.2         48.8        36.1          34.2         34.2         40.8                   36.3
Crop Denelop-aent - HOll-!W. a  i82.2       169.o        159.2       166.2        198.0       169.0        159.2        166.2       198.0         115.4        1o6.2        112.6                  119.6
C-p D-velop.not - Cogrlal       102.8        30.9        26.3         34.3         46.4        30.9         26.3         34.3        46.4           30.9        26.3         34.3                   34.5
floral Snr-Ioes -   .t.ennion   i16.i        61.9        53.3         67.5         62.4        61.9        53.3          67.5        62.4          36.4         27.8         42.0                   35.6
Roral Ser-lon, -  uttititon     280.9       172.2        157.4       175.7        172.4       172.2        157,4        175.7        98.2          98.0         83.2        100.4                   95.0
De-elopatot Sopport MedIa       270.8       113.2        77.4         83.5        128.3        102.5       77.4          83.5       102.8          77.0         51.9         58.o                   72.4
Yei Agrin. Tr-ining Instite    269.2        132,0       141.2        157.4        145.2       121.6        i21.6        135.5       108.9          96.1         96.1        110.0                  192.8
Ani! lla-lth Control            402.3       194.1        193.0       172.6        158.5       158.5        174.8        172.7       133.0          133.0       149.8        147.7                  14o.8
Stocknan Tr-InIng School         91.6        41.9        29.6         30.0         36.6        29.6         30.0         36.6        29.6          30.0         36.6         29.6                   32.0
Oad.i onotroct on (53%)         522.2       462.6       285.9        257.0        114.0        84.o        84.o          84.o       114.0          84.o         84.o         84.0                   91.5
Molldlng o 't (501)             300.2       124.4        121.6       108.5                      -                  -            -            -                   -
Lal
Crop ieneareb                   513.6       347.4       368.'        371.8        347.4       368.6        371;8        368.6,      241.8         5!74         238.6        241.8                  232.6            Fw
Crop Mkrketing                  236.5       392.0        310.2       294.5        203.4       2L6.2        200.5        203.4       153.4          153.4       153.4        153.4                  153.4
Additional Coaaj,f [rt.    .
national Stff-                  362.3       387.5      --W..0        375.0        32S.0       325.0        300.0        300.0         -             -            -
3X Contisasocy on abov          257.7       174.6       157.1        157.1        141.7       139.7       126.8         133.1       103,8          85.9        83.9          90.7                   90.5
Shadou  toiciag Labor Iaptss     20.0        40.0       107.0        209.0        326.0       511.0       687.0         851.0     1,019.0       1,127.0      1,192.0      1,244.0                1,260.0
Tontl E.onoi Costa        3,429.5      3,705.2     3,408.0     3,509,8      3,305.7      3,247.4     3,350.6      3,626.8      3,190.0       2,930.8     2,995.9       3.149.2               3,160.0
:roundnuts                      21.4        69.8        173.3       372.1        618.6        972.5     1,306.8      1,603.9      1,886.2       2,0)76.9    2,188.6       2,272.0               2,298.2
Seose                             3.5         7.9        20.8         43.6         72.6       119.2        i62.i        203.7       249.2         274.7       292.2         305.8                  310.0
*Mil.e                          2o.6         57.6        99.7        i62.8        239.7       317.8        395.6        455.6       484.2         500.8       508.8         514.4                  516.2
S-rght                          io.4         30.6        66.7        L?.58        187.8       265.9       333.9         380.2       419.5         442.o       450.7         456.7                  458.6
Milllet                           1.6         3.2         9.0         18.2         29.3        46.5        62.9          78.5        94.4         104.9       111.4         116.3                  117.9
Onoonro                          12.1        P4.2        60.5       116.i         177.8       270.9       359.2         437.9       517.6         569.7       598.8         621.7                  629.0
Cotton                           51.7       106.6       217.2        380.2        515.9       705.7       867.9         948.5     1,028.9       1,o82.5    1,081.6        1,o81.6                1,081.6
Coftee                           26.2        74.9       222.4        358.2        757.1     1,078.2      1,292.7      1,434.7     1,500.1       1,525.8    1,551.6        1,551.6                1,55i.6
lice                             2.1          4.2        13.3        27.8          30.9        75.9       104.3         133.1       162.5         182.5       195.7         205.1                  208.1
bcoo                             1.9          3.6        io.8        21.8          j5.8        57.1        77.9         98.7        119.6         133.3       141.9         148.7                  150.8
CanItl                          94.8        189.6       284.4       284.4        284.4        284.4       284.4         284.4       284.4         284.4       284.4         284.4                  284.4
Total A.e-fit.         246.7       572.2      1,178.1     1,911.1      2,949.9      4,t94.1     5,247.7      6,059.2      6,746.6       7,177.5    7,405.7        7,558.3               7.606,4
Net (Cost) D.e-nfit         (5,182.8)   (3,133.0)   (2,229.9)   (1,598.7)        (355.8)      946.7     1,897.1       2,432.4     3,548.6       4,246.7    4,409.8        4,409.1               4,446.4             n
II, econoalo intornal tate of ret_rn ci the pr-J. t is 137 .
/Dif.r.n.ce hoboesL fi.ancIal sod fall  --onono. 00,0 of Intnnatlonaaliy --bcoad4 ataff
1/Ioomn-otol Iabor calsod at sobstentce rotors of 30 piastens pso mon-day.
Febcoary 8, 1979



SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Govermenet Cash Flow
(LSd '009)
Year:           1              2             3              4             5              6             7              8            9             10            11            1U-20
Cash Inflow
IDA Credit                                                      1,181         1,575          1,707         1,687          1,350            --            --             --           --            --            --                           --
IFAD                                                            2,325         1,800          1,650         1,725            --             --            --             --           --            --            --            --             --
ODM 1/                                                          2,950         2,200          2,000         2,100            __             __            __             __           __--                        -- __          _  
GTZ 1/                                                            295            228           209            218           --             --            --             --                         --                           --            --
Revenu.  fro  Sed Sales                                            27             27            38             39            39             39            39             39           39            39            39             39            39
L.ae Tao  Inretal Coffee and C?iron                                 5              9            19             33            45             62            76             83           90            95            95             95            95
Local Tax on Increcental nFSd Creps                                 4             10            23             44            70            106           140            170          197           214           224            232           248
Local Tan on Cattle 3t                                              5             10            18             26            30             33            36             36           36            36            36             36            36
Intone Tas                                                        150           150            150            150           15D            150           150            150          150           150           150           150            150
Tota1 Cash Inflow                              6,942          6,009         5,814          6,022          1,684           390            441           478           512          534            544           552            568
Cash Outflow
Project Costs                                                   8,835         6,482          6,196         6,440          4,509         4,509          4,509          4,509        3,048         3,048         1,048          3,048         3,048
IDA Credit Ser-ice Charges and Repayments                           9             21            33             46            56             56            56             56           56            56           131            131           131
IFAD Sterice Charge and Repayments                                 17             31            43             56            56             56            56             56           56            56           131            131           131
Tetal Cash Outflow                             8.861          6.534         6.272          6.542         4.621          4.621          4.621         4.621         3.160        3.160          3.310         3.310          3.310
Net Cash Inflow (Ostflow)                                            (1,919)         (525)          (458)         (520)        (2,937)       (4,231)        (4,180)       (4,143)       (2,648)      (2,626)        (2,766)       (2,758)        (2,742)
Cs-lati-ve Cas- Inflow (Outflow)                                     (1,919)       (2,444)        (2,902)       (3,422)        (6,359)      (10,590)       (14,770)      (18,913)    (21,561)    (24,187)          (26,953)      (29,711)       (51,647)
1/ ODh and GTZ fands are
2/ Based en 507. of predoction whicb would reach nain narkets.
3/ Represents 50p per head en reduced nortality.
n.y 1, 1979



- 53 -
Appendix A
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Table of Contents of Implementation Volume
Annex 1      Regional Background and Ongoing Development in the
Agriculture Sector.
Annex 2      Regional Agricultural Development Strategy, the proposed
Regional Smallscale Agricultural Development Program and
the role of the Project.
Annex 3      Project Formulation, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
Annex 4      Project Organization, Headquarters, Logistical, Admin-
istrative and Financial Support.
Annex 5      Crop Development:  Applied Agronomic Research and Farm
Models.
Annex 6      Crop Development:  Coffee Production.
Annex 7      Crop Development:  Cotton Production.
Annex 8      Crop Development:  Seed Production.
Annex 9      Agricultural Extension and Nutrition.
Annex 10     Commercial Services; Crop Marketing, Cooperatives, Credit
and Farm Input Supplies.
Annex 11     Development Support Media.
Annex 12     Training and Staff Development.
Annex 13     Animal Health Program.
Annex 14     Veterinary Laboratory Services and Cattle Disease Survey.
Annex 15     Livestock Production.
Annex 16     Livestock Marketing.
Annex 17     Secondary and Feeder Road Construction.
Annex 18     The Building Unit.



- 54 -
APPENDIX B
Page   1
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
A. General
1, Sudan: Appraisal of the Southern Region
Agricultural Rehab. Dev. Project               IDA, 1974
2. Loan Application for this Southern Region
Agriculture Project                             MOA, March 1978
3. Agriculture in the Sudan (Bank/Fund Library)    Tothill 1948
4. Natural Resources and Development Potential
in the Southern Provinces of the Sudan         Sudan Government, 1955
B,  Project Development Unit. MOA Publications
5. Annual Progress Report                            Oct. 1977 - Sept. 1978
6. Report on Experimental Programs at Yei,
1973-1976                                        May and West 1977
7. Agronomy Section Report for Yei for
1977 Season                                      Bennett May 1978
8, Livestock Husbandry and Agriculture among
the Dinka                                        Duncan May 1978
9. Seasonal and long term changes in the
marketed offtake from cattle herds in the
S. Region                                         Duncan Jtily 1978
10. Social and Eocnomic Characteristics of
traders in one cattle producing area in
S. Region                                         Duncan Oct. 1978
11, Results of a Farm Management Survey
carried out in the Rumbek area
(Parts I, II and III)                             Duncan August 1978
12. Results of a Farm Management Survey
carried out in the Gogrial area                   Duncan November 1978



- 55 -                      APPENDIX B
Page   2
13.  Annalysis of Cattle Auction Date in Juba 1971-78         Duncan November 1978
14.  An outline of Livestock Marketing in S. Sudan            Barker March 1978
15. Smallholder Farm Economic Surveys in
Eastern and Western Equatoria Provinces                Dima.July 1978
16.  Rural Markets Food Commodity Price Surveys              Dima June 1978
17.  Nutrition Report                                        PDU 1976-1978
18.  Handbook for Nutrition Extension Workers                Eaton Evans July 1978
19.  Handbook for Coffee Extension Workers                   Hughes  1977
20.  Technical Aspects of Development and Research
for Smallholder Coffee in the Southern Region,          J.B.D. Robinson,
Sudan                                                  February 1979
21.  Seed Multiplication by Contract Growers                 Evely  1978
22.  Self Help Farmer Groups                                 Evely Nov. 1978
23.  Final Report of Road Engineer, 1975-78                  Dowle Nov. 1978
C. Ministry and Other Government Publications
24.  Current Agricultural Surveys of S. Region
Crop and Livestock Estimates 1977/78 season            MOA 1978
25.  Reactivation of Yambio Research Station                Bekheit,  ARC Nov 1977
26.  S. Region Cooperative Societies Act and
Regulations                                            MRDC 1977
27.  Establishment of Regional Cooperative Training
and Development Center                                 Tiagi, MRDC Jan. 1978
28.  By-Laws of the Proposed Regional Cooperative Bank    Tiagi, MRDC Oct. 1977
29.  Classified Manpower in Agriculture in the S.
Sudan                                                  Mills, MPSAR, Oct. 1976
30.  Population and Manpower in the Southern Sudan           Mills, MPSAR, May 1977
31.  An Interim Report on the Dinka Livestock Industry
in the Jonglei Area                                    Payne   Jonglei Comm.Oct. 1976
32.  Labor Migration in the Jonglei Area                     ECSR & Jonglei Comm. Oct. 1976
33.  Jonglei Socio-Economic Research Team Interim
Report                                                  ECSR & Jonglei Comm. Oct. 1976
34.  Integrated Rural Development in a Dinka Area-           Payne and La Muniere, dUNDP
Proposals for Kongor District                           & Jonglei Commission
April 1978



- 56 -
APPENDIX B
Page 3
D. Aid Agencies
35. A Rehabilitation Strategy for the EPAPC,
S. Sudan                                         TPI (ODM) July 1978
36. Report on a Preliminary Study of Storage
Problems in S. Sudan                               TPI (ODM) April 1973
37. Sudan: Reconstruction of Bridges in
S. Region                                          CRE (ODM), March 1973
38. A Feasibility Study for Development of Coffee
Production in Eastern and Western Equatoria        AOAD,Khartoum, July 1977
39. Norwegian Church Relief Sudan Program Semi-
Annual Reports                                     June 1977, Dec. 1977
40. Project Report Livestock and Range Manage-
ment Adviser to S. Sudan, 1973-77                  UNDP/FAO, 1978
41. Project Document Dairy and Poultry Develop-
ment S. Region                                    UNDP/FAO, 1978
42. Project Document, Institute for Agricultural
Technicians, Yambio                               UNDP/FAO, 1977
43. Market Survey of Wau, 1976-77. Land Develop-
ment Project                                      UNDP/FAO Nov. 1977
44. Detailed Soil Survey of Marial Bai Dairy Farm    UNDP/FAO, April 1978
45. Semi-Detailed Soil Surveys in Sopo-Khargana,
Bahr-el-Ghazal                                    UNDP/FAO, Feb. 1978
46. Report of Adviser on Extension Institutions and
Organisation                                      FAO, Rome, 1977
47. Communication in Extension Work in S. Sudan        FAO, Rome, 1977
48. Report on S. Region Agricultural Extension
Services                                          ODM, 1978
49. Sudan: Second Highway Project Appraisal Report   IDA, March 1978
50. Southern Manpower Development Project Paper        USAID, May 1978



214-                                      SUDAN
Southern  Region(
-12j    CROP DISTRIBUTION, RAINFALL, AND ECOLOGICAL ZONES  '                                                                                   R
Central rainlands      --Main roads                        Average 
R Rice              M  Maize                  LE      eto ononsMi od                                         annual rainfall,      1    :.              /     \/                /
K  Kenat         C Cotton                        Flood region                  Other roads       _800 -  1931-1960,
C    TE Tea           CF  Coffee                       Ironstone plateau       - - .Railways
o     m crop production            200
\           ~~~~~TO  Tobacco                  Southeastern plains    -*-Iniernational bounduries                  {,si      ,i1    ,                           t 
N,,,oghlmletadasaa,~                          Mountain  slopes  and  hills $   11SPv    
~~~~~~A                                                                                                                      R ICAN\jWl9)f/7/ 
MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o           100    '    20;E5  0    300                              4o
CA F R I C     N                                        --
EMPIRE
LSd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tlFO                                                                                IE
~~~~~UOfl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     U






V ON     IV        Ofl, ..                                                              N~"~o,oq q-nOAoOOad.-0
co~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 20022adP22 A-.Ao,o  ~COsdO  0a  40  u2202  u  ..pq
22,P22 422 P.. / 90d - . A 042 220 A2A- 2 202 p dn 0220 J.04 o929220 J.           
042                    .g  jo   pA"084,220A 042Aq p.A0d02 000q 094 dew  24
o ;n V A N    N 
V I d O l <> N t 90 j V
f-    S  (                   (   w  >,                                   f X   ,9l-t) a a\XX \   0    X WZVn'9                                                                                     88 NVDI \
.    . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . .                                 . . . . . . .            . . . ..... W aJpnqDODJII.
. .         . . . .                           . .  .     .   .  .   .   .            . .    .   . . . .!JpnqlD0!OJ     
. ,.. .                               .    .. ..    .......                                                         ...           ....     .    A       S   N               N    O      lV     l    d   O   d                                                                                    )
i  T  i}     4   ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~~NVCiflS 
S  .              .                                      .   . .   .  ..                                                                         .   .
..............Z






2'4                                                                                                                             32v
SUDAN -Southern Region
CATTLE DISTRIBUTION AND                                                                          .1--.
(                                                               PROJECT LIVESTOCK FACILITIES                                                                          Renkl                                 r
*N                                                               .   Cattle distribution           A     Veterinary laboratories                           j   /
-.-Main roads                        *    Ranch and dairy
CHA[.                                                                 - Other roads                    [    Holding ground                                      j
_._!  -  Rivers                      *    River borge transport facilities
- -- Provincial boundaries           *    Os training centers                              /               )
-.-International boundaries         V    Stockmon training school                      /
\                         '             i.    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tsetse belt                                                       t\'                                |              \
C E N   0           <                                        t                    2  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T H I O P I A 
0~~~~
E M  P I R                                                                              I - -A  R  BaiE
<-               >--rkj #EYR~~EYAr \'                                                                       e
\ J I f b~~~~~~~~~toodartesnOs   honm  tO,s map do not iovir ton tOe part of Ohw World Bank tnd litst1.im 
\   2                  fhli~~~~~~~~~~tvstea,any ddOtdgeotonOth,t ieiStatus of ayterttoty o, nanyedoonetentGG no*f, I-   9      _   S    '        -     .   S                                          o
hoo           298                                                                                roN/N00R         f -*O                 323 0U G0A  N   D A  
KILOMETER






AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~£A
A iz A-         L~~~~~~~                  /8fl A 7
4Th..  -    N N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N0RT          
-J~~~~~~~~~~~~~dD
N F  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
C N A    Roj                   C             
Etv.r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
-tN: ~ ~ ~ prSvem 
TA,~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K  n~~~~~~~~.~~~~rfl~~~~~~~~I  I~ ~ ~ ~
'N   0     3>U T$WHH$ "' R N                           -NIt/
B A H50U                 FRR
_____________GHAZAL                    A
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-






IBRD 13905
f7i45        \                                                                     S U  [)A AN TAIGngtHl 280                                                                             OCTOPER 1978
SOUTHERN REGION
Marial Bai Ranch and Dairy Farm
\ \   \     3Cattle ranch
\ >\  . Dairy farm
Riverne land
~7   River/ stream
DAIRY FARM,       7
. - P   2   ,. '                          \                                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~MariaBo
IR0 N S TOC N E  /               PLATEAU                               n                                                         7 :7
Th,- d'.. i-(-  -dd"'h"                                                                      -\
Wor/d 8-nk sdd s.ff htlus vly r
the crmg- <ence .,  the rr7d.i rs of.'.\.\.J..                                                                                                  ',,'f,, .
doso mapl ot bhee preared by thr                \
World t21f nk st affDoloatretay f\
/thse7 coneeneo the Ireadertts of    
any teeorty ort oy end  rot                       \
27 4bound5r,eo att- fn oh  trdp
err terrtor or any-                                                                                     -       - endorentan
r ,                                         -7'45'                                                                                                                                          7' ,\  -  745'-
v ~    ~      oenetneo Corn bOondar,uo                                                                                                                                   _____9_1 _
CHAD'
¢5     S U D A N 0                f\L\
UA                  |              f To Rago                                                                            WAU
>\J- 't I~~ETWOK>A                                                                                                                                                                   7b-l  tTo
n_,  gfoJ  \   t.                          0          2         4         6          8         10              -
CEHTAY,
AFRi7       e                                                                          K,Iorreters _
*   t_r>>              >s   ?       o<,-  --ffi>s.              0                2                4                6
ZAIRE                (UGAN    KENYA                                                                                                             2'00' IToTO






IBRD 14186
24'                                                          S     D      N32                                                                                                                       APRIL t979~
_12..                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTHERN   REGION                                                                        7.-.                                               2-.
Administrative Division                                                                                 Renk( BLUENIL
-   Main roads      F   to  Provincial headquarters, District CounCil ISeats                     I
CH A DS                                                                  -     Other roads    --- District boundaries
/                                           .---.---.- ~~~~~~~~~~             ~~Railway  - Ponalboundaries
~~Rivers       ~         Internaitional boundaries        K  C) R  DO C PA  /V\ .
-AeI                                                                                                    Nai
/    /                            '--*    --/A---\
8 U H E YRA TT HOP 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1L 'J 
O       ~o                           30             N /y-'   ..                       .-.-~               umbk                                                                bor Post
KtLflMETEBS
ARAB REPUBLIC
LIBYA     OF EGYPT                                                                                                                                                k7k
N   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~\EA STER" EQUATOR/A
SUD N  JJc
CENTRAL"'          (. ETHIOPI
AFRICAN  '.,4'                                                 3      e    w,M  ww,5
EM PIRAE                                                                                                                                                                                                     K  E  N  Y Ar 555  5.5
y      -        .555.5.,..,,W ydgm.t en  lealxl,.    onn,s -n..t
ZIE   UOGAN52   KENYA       M 6 f         ""                                                        ~/                                                           U      A      D



