FILE copy
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2517-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
April 26, 1979
This dokmeu be a rnul u dirlbutle  and may be uied by rweipotef ouly In te perfornmee of
their .kW  dud.. lbs goWntum  my net otherwise be disclose  without World Bank authorization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =        Sudanese Pounds (ESd)    =        100 piasters
US$1.00             =         ESd 0.50
fSd1.00             =         US$ 2.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (f)        =         1.04 acres               =       0.42 hectares.
I short ton (t)     =         2,000 pounds             =       0.9 metric tons.
ABBREVIATIONS
EPAPC     -   Equatoria Province Agricultural Production Corporation
FAO       -   Food and Agriculture Organization
GTZ       -   German Agency for Technical Cooperation, Ltd.
IDA       -   International Development Association
IFAD      -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
MOA       -   Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources of the
Southern Region
MCTS      -   Ministry of Cooperatives Trade and Supply of
Southern Region
ODM       -   Ministry of Overseas Development (United Kingdom)
PDU       -   Project Development Unit
PFU       -   Project Formulation Unit
RSADP     -   Regional Smallscale Agriculture Development Program
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLv
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
of the Southern Regional Government
Amount:             US$15 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:       The proposed project would assist the Southern Regional
Government over a four year period to implement part of
its regional agricultural development program by strength-
ening agricultural services, planning capacity and manage-
ment and improving physical infrastructure. Specifically,
the project would focus on six of the region's 23 dis-
tricts and would provide assistance for (a) developing
smallholder rainfed coffee and cotton production and
expanding seed multiplication; (b) strengthening the
existing extension service and provision of two nutri-
tionists; (c) project implementation through the existing
Project Development unit in the Ministry of Agriculture;
(d) establishment of a new Project Formulation unit to
help prepare plans and future projects; (e) carrying out
crop trials and developing extension packages; (f) expand-
ing the existing feeder road construction unit to enable
it to improve and maintain some 560 km of road; (g) estab-
lishing a pilot livestock marketing program largely based
on river transport and initiation of a livestock marketing
strategy for the region; (h) operating the Livestock
Development center at Marial Bai; (i) operating three
veterinary laboratories, carrying out a regional cattle
disease survey and strengthening the animal resources
department of the Ministry of Agriculture; (j) providing
input supplies and special training programs. The risks
most likely to affect the project would be delays in
implementation or lower production caused by lower than
anticipated yields and farmer adoption rates. To miti-
gate possible delays in employing qualified personnel,
staff recruitment has already started and a majority of
staff are in post.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Summary of
Project Costs: 1/                                        US$ million         % of
Major Components             Local   Foreign   Total  Total
Crop Development              5.9       8.8      14.7    26
Livestock Development         2.4       8.8      11.2    20
Extension and Training        1.2       3.1       4.3      7
Project Development and
Project Formulation
Units                       1.3       4.3       5.6    10
Building and Road Units        1.8      6.2       8.0    14
Project Preparation            -          .8       .8      3
Base Cost                    12.6      32.0      44.6    80
Physical Contingencies          .6      1.8       2.4      4
Price Contingencies           2.8       6.2       9.0    16
TOTAL                   16.0      40.0      56.0   100
Financing:                                                 US$ million         % of
Local   Foreign   Total  Total
IDA                           1.8      13.2      15.0    27
IFAD                          4.3      10.7      15.0    27
ODM                           4.2      14.3      18.5    33
GTZ                             .1      1.8       1.9      3
Government                    5.6        -        5.6    10
TOTAL                   16.0      40.0      56.0   100
Estimated
Disbursements:                                       US$ million
IDA Fiscal Year    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual                2.4    3.1    3.4    3.4    2.7
Cumulative            2.4    5.5    8.9   12.3   15.0
Rate of Return:       15% on 58% of project costs for whiich benefits have
been quantified.
Appraisal:            Report No. 2356a-SU, dated April 26, 1979
Map:                  IBRD 13902
1/   Total Project costs are the same as net project costs as there are no
significant taxes on project inputs.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of $15 million to the Democratic Republic of the
Sudan to help finance the Southern Region Agriculture Project. The credit
would be on standard terms. The Overseas Development Ministry (U.K.), Inter-
-iational Fund for Agricultural Development and the Federal Republic of
Germany have agreed in principle to provide cofinancing totaling the equiva-
lent of about US$35 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic updating mission visited Sudan last November and its
report is now being finalized. Major conclusions are reflected in this
report. The last economic report distributed to the Board was the Economic
Mlemorandum of September, 1976 (Report No. 1273a-SU).
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the largest
country in Africa. It is also a poor country, is classified by the UN as a
least developed country and has a population of about 17 million. Per capita
GNP is estimated at about $300. Much of the country is unoccupied or very
sparsely populated, and in contrast to many developing countries, there is
little population pressure on presently developed land. Although a large part
of the country consists of desert or semi-desert, the Sudan nevertheless has
great untapped potential for agricultural development. Estimates indicate
that about two-thirds of the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral
production, and only a small fraction of this land is under intensive use.
The economy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, which is the major
commodity produced on irrigated land. Sudan also exports gum arabic, sesame
and groundnuts. Its considerable grazing resources have hardly been tapped.
The manufacturing sector is relatively small and, apart from the processing
of such agricultural commodities as cotton, oil seeds and sugar, it is limited
to the production of consumer goods and building materials. There have been
some exports of chrome ore and further development of these deposits is taking
place. A development of potential significance is the reported discovery of
oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. The public sector has
long been important in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irriga-
tion facilities, the railways and virtually all power and water supply. With
the nationalization measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry,
commerce and finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although some
industrial enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about half of
the GDP is still generated within the public sector.



-2-
4.        Wlile the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is consider-
able, its economic performance has been disappointing.  During the sixties
and early seventies, the economy grew by little more than the growth of the
population. This was primarily due to the depressed level of investment,
both public and private. While the Government was successful in achieving a
high growth rate of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure absorbed most
of it, and development expenditure decreased.  The growth of recurrent expen-
diture was caused by increasing security expenditures, the policy of hiring
all post secondary school graduates, converting casual labor on public proj-
ects into permanent government employees and rapidly increasing transfers to
local government. Further, savings generated by public corporations also
declined because of inefficiency and rigid pricing policies. A civil war in
the south also claimed considerable energy and resources. Public sector
deficits were increasingly financed through excessive credit expansion.
Prices rose steadily, and the external position was under pressure owing to
the rapid growth of imports and a stagnation of export volume. Following the
Addis Ababa accord of 1972, which brought peace to the south, the Government
directed its attention more to the development needs of the country. Priori-
ties were re-emphasized in the Six-Year Plan for the period 1977/78-1982/83.
These included: the amelioration of the severe transport bottleneck; the
attainment of self-sufficiency in a number of important consumer products; and
the expansion of exports to improve the country's foreign exchange position.
Most of the development projects started in the last few years have been in
line with these priorities.
Economic Performance and Recent Developments
5.        Over the five-year period ended June 1975, it is estimated that
GDP in real terms grew at an average annual rate of 4.5 percent -- a growth
rate consistent with growth trends in the agricultural sector, which accounts
for 40 percent of national income. Public investment, which increased from
US$75 million in 1973 to about US$300 million per annum in the years 1975-77,
has been concentrated on the highest priority needs. Most of the transport
investment has gone into increasing the efficiency and capacity of the rail-
way system, which carries about half of all freight and passenger movements,
and into developing and expanding alternative modes of transport, especially
between Port Sudan (the country's only port) and Khartoum. Priority also has
been given to increasing the domestic production of such commodities as
sugar, wheat and textiles.
6.        Agricultural production in Sudan has shown increasing diversifica-
tion into new crops during recent years. The production of food grains, of
which the most important are sorghum and millet grown mainly on rainfed land,
and wheat, which has expanded rapidly on irrigated lands, is oriented toward
satisfying domestic consumption. Groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic have
traditionally been major cash crops grown mainly for export, and recently
sugarcane cultivation and commercial livestock development have become in-
creasingly important areas of agricultural activity.



- 3 -
7.        In the industrial sector, the bulk of new public investments has
gone into the textiles and sugar sub-sectors. On infrastructure development,
the length of bitumen paved roads has increased from less than 400 km in 1973
to about 1,500 km now, and will approximately double between now and 1983.
The main road between Khartoum and Port Sudan should be completed by mid-
1979. The petroleum oil pipeline between Khartoum and Port Sudan became
operative in 1977, a year late, but has operated at only half its capacity
since because of technical difficulties.
Trade and Financial Development
8.         The increased rate of investment on the part of the public sector,
which is bringing about significant structural changes in the economy, is
in sharp contrast with the relative stagnation of the late sixties and early
seventies. However, in most other respects, the standard of economic manage-
ment needs improvement.  Indeed, the most notable feature of the Sudanese
economy today is the acute balance of payments and budgetary difficulties
facing the Government. With regard tc the balance of payments, the under-
lying reasons for the deterioration have been an inadequate pattern of
incentives in agriculture coupled with expansionary financial policies. The
former factor has caused export performance below Sudan's potential while the
latter has been reflected in a build-up of inflationary pressures which have
increased import demand and reduced export availabilities. The balance of
payments difficulties have been exacerbated by a decrease in net external
assistance precisely at the time when the Government has been attempting to
accelerate the development effort.
9.        Although receipts from exports have been rising consistently, the
volume of exports declined by some 13 percent between the years 1970-77;
thus, the rise in export receipts was entirely due to higher prices. The
volume of cotton exports has shown a declining trend with a particularly
sharp fall since 1973. An important factor behind this adverse trend has
been a system of explicit and implicit disinc2ntives, such as the application
of a relatively appreciated exchange rate for the conversion of cotton export
receipts and the disproportionate share of pr,:luction costs borne by cot-on
in the public irrigation schemes. Declining p--ices and sharply reduced
demand abroad also contributed to the drop in cotton exports from 62 percent
of total exports in 1970/71 to only 37 percent in 1974/75. Since then demand
has recovered somewhat and the 1976/77 cotton exports amounted to 48 percent
of total exports.
10.       On the imports side, the rise in prices of crude oil, most inter-
mediate imports, and essential food imports that  ccurred after 1973 coincided
with the higher rate of investment in Sudan, which necessitated a significan',
expansion in capital and intermediate goods imports. The increase in the
value of imports in the period 1973-77 averaged 23 percent per annum, cf luam ed
to 8.5 percent per annum for ex-orts. The largest increase in imports he s
been in the amount of imported transport equipment, reflecting the effort
to improve all means of transport, particularly road transport.  Th- incr-  ,e
in the amount of machinery and spare parts is mainl, attributed to major
development projects under execution.



- 4 -
11.       As a result of these developments, the current account deficit,
which averaged US$27 million in 1970/73 or about 2 percent of GDP, widened
to US$640 million in 1975, or approximately 15 percent of GDP. Initially,
the increases in the current account deficit were financed by capital inflows
which, on a net basis, reached a peak of US$250 million in 1975, as well as
by short-term borrowing by the Bank of Sudan. In the last three years, how-
ever, as the volume of capital inflows declined, the current account deficits
were financed to a significant extent by the accumulation of arrears.
12.       The internal imbalance stems to a large extent from inadequate
demand mailagement policies, serious deficiencies in the operation of public
enterprises and in the incentive pattern in agriculture. On the fiscal
front, the rise in development expenditures from ISd 25 million in the early
1970s to Levels in excess of ESd 100 million since 1974/75 was largely fi-
nanced through an increase in foreign assistance which reached a peak of ESd
114 million in 1974/75. Subsequently, foreign aid declined sharply and by
1976/77 the net official capital inflow was ESd 22.1 million. However,
domestic public expenditures on both development and current operations
continued to grow. While a number of production and consumption taxes have
been introduced since 1974/75, the increase in Government revenues has been
limited. As a result, the Government deficit has been rising steadily and,
in the face of declining external assistance, could only be financed through
increased borrowings from the banking systm. The borrowings, in turn, have
provided the primary impetus to the rapid expansion in money supply. Over
the period 1973/74-1976/77, for example, money supply grew at an average rate
of 29 percent per annum. Since the growth rate of real GNP in Sudan during
this period was in the neighborhood of only 4 percent per annum, this expan-
sion resulted in significant inflationary pressures in the economy, In
addition, public enterprises, which generate a large share of agricultural
production and a rising share of industrial output, have incurred losses
averaging fSd 27 million annually. As a consequence of all these factors,
the public sector deficit, which amounted to ESd 29 million in 1972/73 rose
to LSd 208.5 million in 1976/77, equivalent to 38 percent of total budgetary
expenditure, or 10 percent of GDP.
External Assistance and Foreign Debt
13.       A major consequence of the above developments was a resort to
foreign borrowing to finance development expenditures and to support the
balance of payments. Specifically, commitments have averaged about US$580
million annually in the last five years, as compared to US$110 million
annually in the preceding four-year period. As a result, debt outstanding
(including undisbursed balances) rose from US$0.6 billion in 1972 to about
US$3.4 billion in 1978. Furthermore, the Central Bank has repeatedly had to
borrow abroad in order to finance the overall deficit, while in the last
three years arrears on imports and other current payments as well as on ex-
ternal debt have accumulated. Total arrears at the end of February 1979
amounted to an estimated US$920 million, of which US$680 million was on
current payments and US$240 million on account of external debt.



- 5 -
14.       A most disturbing feature of Sudan's external borrowing in Lhe
recent past has been the relatively poor terms on wlhich the loans have been
secured. The average terms of all commitments of public loans in the pericd
1974-77 were 5.5 percent interest, 17 years maturity, including 4.5 years
grace, compared to an average of 3 percent interest, 32 years maturity, in-
cluding 6 years grace in the preceding three-year period. Thus, the grant
element of loans dropped from 48 percent in 1972 to 18 percent in 1974, but
in the last three years has averaged 34 percent. The Bank/IDA share of
Sudan's debt service is 13 percent and of debt outstanding is almost 10 percent.
We estimate the Bank/IDA share of debt service will fall to about 3 percent
in 1985 when the Bank/IDA share of debt outstanding would be about 8 percent.
Policy Changes
15.       Against this background of serious payments imbalances stemming
from structural maladjustments in production, trade and prices, the Govern-
ment in recent months has taken several significant decisions aimed at re-
establishing external and internal equilibrium. In June 1978, a stabiliza-
tion program was announced as part of an agreement with the IMF that involved
a draw down of 51 million SDR's from two support facilities -- the first
credit tranche and the trust fund. The agreement included a devaluation of
the Sudanese pound, effectively by 20 percent, and declarations of intent by
Government to keep deficit financing within certain limits and to limit short
and medium term foreign borrowing. Also, the Government announced that the
pricing system in the irrigated agriculture sector would be reformed and that
land and water charges would be imposed on most crops. Subsequently, the
Government, with Bank Group assistance, formulated and adopted a new Three
Year Public Investment Program (1979-81) designed mainly to restrict devel-
opment expenditures only to the most urgent infrastructure needs and to
priority projects in the agriculture sector. Adoption of this program helped
to provide a framework for more intensive discussions with the Fund and in
early April 1979 agreement was reached on a set of policy actions to be
taken by Government in order to obtain access to resources under the Extended
Fund Facility for a period of three years in an amount equivalent to SDR 200
million. The policy actions involve essentially an extension of those agreed
as part of the Fund standby in June, 1978 -- ceilings on the expansion of
bank credit, stricter limitations on external borrowings, controls on recur-
rent budgetary expenditures, arrangements for resolving the serious external
debt and arrears problem. On the last point, the Government has been making
progress in renegotiating outstanding debt and arrears with certain major
public and private creditors. Simultaneously with these developments, the
Government has taken steps -- abolition of the cotton export tax, institution
of land and water charges -- which should help considerably to recast the
pattern of financial incentives in the agriculture sector along lines that
are consistent with Sudan's comparative advantage in international trade.
16.       As the Government seeks to improve the standard of economic manage-
ment, it will need to put particular emphasis on domestic resource mobiliza-
tion. So far as the current budget is concerned, an improvement is required
in financial control mechanisms to ensure that actual expenditures do not



- 6 -
exceed appropriated amounts.  Additionally, budgetary transfers from the
central to provincial and, through them, to local governments need to be
placed on a permanently sustainable basis. As a result of the current bud-
getary and balance of payments difficulties, the Government has decided to
initiate only the most urgent new development projects and to concentrate on
completing on-going projects and rehabilitating existing ones. While the
Government is still committed to the objectives of the Six-Year Plan, the
volume of investments in the first three years will be significantly lower
than originally planned.
17.       On the revenue side, the main objective of reforms in the tax
system should be to make it more development-oriented. This requires a
reduction in the reliance on foreign trade taxes, development of broad-based
consumption taxes and extension of direct taxes, especially to capture the
growth in the modern agricultural sector. Another important aspect of
resource mobilization is the role of parastatals. While the public sector
in Sudan dominates all non-traditional economic activities, public enter-
prises have failed to generate adequate surpluses to finance development
expenditures, and their operational deficits have become a drain on the
Government budget. The Government has completed a comprehensive review of
the operations and performance of parastatal organizations. Bank staff have
assisted in the review and it is expected that a program of reforms of the
parastatal sector based upon the review will shortly be drawn up by the
Government.
18.       The recent buildup of external public debt and the foreign liabi-
lities of the banking system underscore the need for improved debt management
and a further easing of the external debt service burden, which reached
24 percent in 1977 and is projected to exceed 25 percent each year over the
next ten years and in some years will be as high as 40%.  It is essential for
Government to borrow on concessionary terms and to restrict borrowing to
that required for priority investments. In addition to factors described
above, which were responsible for the buildup of external public debt, the
debt management problem in Sudan is also one of knowledge -- the multiplicity
of agencies in the Government dealing with some aspects of data collection
or debt management makes it difficult to obtain a comprehensive and accurate
picture of Sudan's external debt transactions. New procedures to ensure
better debt management were introduced by a decree issued in February 1976,
which confined the authority to contract foreign loans to the Ministry of
Finance and National Economy. The Bank, in July 1976, completed an analysis
of Sudan's debt data and made recommendations for the centralization and
analysis of such data. The Government has now established a special unit in
the Ministry of Finance and National Economy to implement these recommenda-
tions. The Bank has been asked to provide technical assistance to the Unit.
19.        In summary, after a number of years of low and fluctuating rates
of savings and investments, momentum has been injected into Sudan's economic
development by a considerable expansion in domestic investment during the
last three years. However, the country faces severe balance of payments and
domestic resource mobilization problems in the short run. While these are



- 7 -
familiar problems in developing countries, they are especially acute in the
Sudan. Consequently, basic policy decisions, some of which have been out-
lined in the preceding paragraphs, will have to be implemented if these
prospects are to be realized. The recent economic measures (para. 15) re-
present an important beginning and indicate a greater awareness by Government
of the seriousness of the economic and financial situation. For the immediate
future, the Bank can assist the Sudan to maintain the momentum of development
by hielping channel resources into priority sectors, by extending technical
assistance to improve project implementation capacity, and by continuing the
dialogue on critical policy issues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
20.       World Bank Group commitments to Sudan now total US$521.9 million.
Of this, US$25.8 million are IFC commitments. There have been eight loans
(two on Third Window terms) and 22 credits for a total of 27 projects. Six
loans and one credit are fully disbursed while nineteen projects and one
technical assistance project, funded by UNDP and executed by the Bank, are
under implementation. Almost half of the total Bank/IDA lending has gone
into agricultural development: three irrigation projects, three mechanized
farming projects, two smallholder development projects in the southern and
the western regions; a livestock marketing project and an agricultural re-
search project. Projects in other sectors include: two power projects, two
education projects, two highways projects including one recently approved, a
domestic aviation project, four railway projects, a ports project, a technical
assistance credit and two credits to the Industrial Bank of Sudan. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as of March 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       Physical progress in implementating development projects in Sudan
varies. Most of them have difficulty in getting key materials -- cement,
motor fuel and timber, of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also
affects most projects. There have also been delays in meeting effectiveness
conditions, mainly because of problems in establishing new institutions,
completing necessary legal documentation or concluding required cofinancing
agreements. These problems have been brought to the notice of Government
authorities and efforts are being intensified to help resolve them.
22.       Our lending strategy in Sudan will continue to emphasize agricul-
tural and infrastructure investments. For the near term, and in accordance
with Government's current economic policies (ref. para. 16), more importance
will be placed on the rehabilitation and intensification of existing irriga-
tion schemes and on infrastructure development. For example, a third power
project and a proposed project to improve overall production in the existing
New Halfa irrigation scheme have recently been appraised. A second irrigation
project including rehabilitation of existing pump schemes on the White Nile is
scheduled for appraisal in the fall of 1979 and a similar project is envisioned
on the Blue Nile. Other projects under consideration include a second tech-
nical assistance credit, a water supply project and a fourth mechanized
farming project.



-8-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.       Agriculture contributes about 40% of Sudan's gross domestic product;
over 95% of export receipts; about 80% of employment; about 90% of the raw
materials for the industrial sector and a substantial proportion of government
revenues. The Bank has recently completed an agricultural sector review of
Sudan and the report is now being finalized.
The Resource Base
24.       Of the total area of the Sudan, nearly two-thirds is suitable for
crop farming and pastoralism. The northern third of the country is largely
desert and, according to Bank estimates, the remaining two-thirds contain
some 85 million feddans of arable land (only 25 percent of which is used),
240 million feddans of grazing land and 60 million feddans of natural forest.
The country also supports a large livestock population (15 million cattle, 16
million sheep, 11 million goats and 2 million camels), which is almost all
owned by transhumant pastoralists and has considerable potential for increased
productivity. With its considerable underused livestock and land resources,
and its proximity to Middle East markets, Sudan is in a favorable position to
expand its exports.
The Southern Region
25.       The Southern Region, comprising six provinces, covers 650,000 km 2
this is only about one quarter of Sudan's total area, but still 11% larger
than Kenya for example. With 3 to 4 million people, the South has a fifth of
the country's population, but the density is just over 5 persons per km . The
majority of the people live at subsistence level and per capita GNP is prob-
ably about US$80, less than a third of the national average. The civil dis-
turbances between 1955 and 1972 caused considerable disruption of economic
activity, and the displacement of large numbers of the population. Since the
end of hostilities, priority has been given to repairing and expanding infra-
structure, and to developing smallholder farming as the quickest method of
raising the standard of living of the majority of the population.
26.       Southern Sudan has mainly savannah and forest vegetation with an
annual rainfall varying from 700 - 1,600 mm. Crop production is limited to
short term grains and oilseeds, and transhumant livestock production is also
important. The large majority of farmers are dependent on subsistence cereal
and oilseed crops. The total crop area is estimated at 1.9 million feddans of
which 0.9 million is under sorghum, 0.3 million groundnuts, 0.2 million sesame
and 0.1 each of cassava, finger millet, pearl millet, maize and beans. Since
many of these are grown in mixtures, the total area under production may be
lower. Crop yields are low, reflecting a lack of modern technology and market
incentives. Shifting cultivation is widespread, soil preparation is by hand
tools, which themselves are scarce due both to communication and foreign
exchange problems. Little or no use is made of pesticides; improved seed,
mainly for maize, groundnuts and sorghum, is only just becoming available.



- 9 -
27.       The Southern Region Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
is responsible for agricultural development in the region. It is estimated
thiat less than half (42 percent) of all established posts (572) in the
Ministry are filled, and shortages are greatest in the professional and tech-
nical levels. The staff that does exist is not always able to perform effec-
tively because of communications problems, lack of management ability or
direction, shortages of fuel and spare parts and lack of sufficient recurrent
funds for operations.
Constraints
28.       The sheer size of the area, the scattered population and the
paucity of- communications infrastructure are major constraints. River
transport, whiclh should be the major economic lifeline, is run very ineffi-
ciently; railway services to Wau suffer from insufficient rolling stock
and poor management. The roadlink to the North is only in operation 3-4
months a year, so most imports come from Mombassa through Kenya and Uganda;
internal roads are few and suffer from lack of maintenance, while air
services are unreliable. To this must be added the lack of baseline data
for planning; the shortage of trained manpower, and of educational facilities;
constant fuel shortages, further impairing project implementation; lack of
coordination and thus some duplication of effort by different agencies
assisting Government; and financial constraints through shortage of foreign
exchange and inadequate budget allocations.
IDA Ongoing Project in the Smallholder Sector
29.       The Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation project, estimated
to cost US$12.6 million, was financed in part by IDA (US$10.7 million: Credit
No. 476-SU) and started in 1974. Additional parallel financing was provided
by ODM for internationally recruited staff and feeder road construction
equipment. A complementary cattle vaccination campaign was funded by the
Federal Republic of Germany. The aim was to increase smallholder production
of foodcrops, primarily sorghum, maize and groundnuts to improve nutrition
and reduce dependence on food imports. Cash incomes were to be increased
through the development of cotton and coffee as cash crops, and through the
sale of surplus food crops. Production of livestock was to be increased
primarily through the cattle vaccination campaign.
30.       The project started slowly, due to problems of staff recruitment
and the effect of the many constraints discussed in the previous paragraphs.
However, a sound infrastructure base has been established through the project
headquarters in Juba, the main crop station at Yei and sub-centers at Maridi,
Yambio, Torit and Rumbek (See map). An appropriate program of crop trials has
been started and seed production of improved varieties of groundnuts, maize
and sorghum is now progressing well with some 175 tons being distributed in
1977/78. Seed production exceeded appraisal estimates for groundnuts by 51%



- 10 -
but reached only 22% of sorghum and 45% of maize projections. Distribution of
coffee seedlings for rainfed production has been double that of the appraisal
estimates and 3,500 feddan, involving 3,500 farmers, will have been planted
by the end of the project instead of the 1,500 estimated at appraisal. The
rehabilitation project, along with assistance from other agencies, has given
the region improved infrastructure on which to build and has provided some
technical advances for improved farmer packages. Much more remains to be
done, and a realistic development program must be drawn up that maximizes the
use of available finance, technical assistance and scarce manpower resources               f
in a pha6ed program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Project Description
31.       The proposed project, originating from the ongoing agricultural
rehabilitation project in the Southern Region, was prepared by Government
with the assistance of the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa. The
project was appraised in May/June, 1978 and the staff appraisal report (No.
2356-SU, dated May 1, 1979) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. The Credit and Project Summary is in the beginning of this report
and a Supplementary Data Sheet is at Annex III. Negotiations were held at
IFAD headquarters in Rome from March 21-23, 1979; the Sudan Delegation was
headed by Dr. David Bassiouni, Director General, Southern Region M4inistry of
Agriculture.
32.       The project fundamentally has two objectives:  (a) to help complete
the institutional framework begun in the first project (ref. para. 29-30
above) and required for the initiation of sound agricultural development in
all six provinces of the Southern Region in order to improve the incomes
and diets of the large mass of farmers and pastoralists; (b) in certain areas
of high potential, to help improve the output of crops that either have high
export value, or that can rapidly assist in satisfying urban food demands
where this can be done by smallholders. These objectives are consistent with
the sectoral goals of the new Southern Regional government, which came to
power in April, 1978, and subsequently endorsed the concept that, henceforth,
agricultural development should conform to a 15-20 year Regional Smallscale
Agricultural Development Program (RSADP) that would involve all of the re-
gion's 23 districts. Although the program is still evolving -- and, indeed,
an important aspect of the proposed project is to assist that evolution -- the
general implementation approach has been accepted. Essentially, it would in-
volve a three-phase process for districts entering the program: A preparatory
phase that would include agro-economic surveys, research trials and seed
multiplication, pilot extension and project planning; a development phase
during which the appropriate infrastructure for improved input supply and
marketing would be initiated and completed; a consolidation phase during which
all services and activities established in the first two phases, mainly with
the support of external financing agencies, would be absorbed into the regular
administrative network of the Southern Region Ministry of Agriculture.



- 11 -
33.       Within the aforementioned planning framework, the proposed project
would achieve the following:
(a)  Crop Development Activities
(i)  Expansion of food crop development activities in two
major centers -- Yei (Eastern Equatoria province) and
Halima/Wau (Bahr-el-Gazal province). These centers
would provide the base of operations for activities
involving six districts: Four of the districts (Yei,
Rumbek, Wau, Gogrial), where preparatory work has
already been completed or is well advanced, would
enter the development phase (para. 31 above); in two
districts -- Aweil and Tonj -- preparatory work would
be started;
(ii) Expansion of smallholder rainfed coffee development by
increasing the area under production from 3,500 feddans
to 6,500 feddans, involving about 6,000 farmers. Medium
term credit would be provided under the project to assist
farm groups to acquire coffee hullers;
(iii) Expansion of the cotton extension and spraying program
started during the first project (Credit 476-SU) in
Eastern Equatoria province; it would also continue to
assist the Equatoria Province Agricultural Production
Corporation in Western Equatoria province through
staff training and research support.
(iv) Expansion of multiplication to increase the production
of improved seed such as maize, groundnuts and sorghum;
(v)  Continuation of food crop research with emphasis on im-
proving maize, groundnuts and sorghum; some work would
also be done on other crops (millet, cassava, pulses
and rice).
(b) Livestock Services, Animal Health
(i)  Support for the Livestock production center at Marial
Bai, which was established under the first project.
Senior staff would be recruited and studies would be
conducted on the performance potential of local livestock
for meat and milk production. In addition, a pilot dairy
ranching scheme would be initiated with a view to estab-
lishing smallholder dairy units to supply low cost milk
and milk products to urban centers;



- 12 -
(ii) Strengthening of the Animal Resources department of the
MOA, particularly in the coordination of its veterinary
field services. A logistics officer would be recruited
to supervise and train local staff in the procurement and
distribution of drugs anid vaccines. Funds would also be
provided for vaccines and for operating expenditures.
(iii) Provision of capital, operating expenditures and technical
staff for the three veterinary laboratories constructed
under the first project; recruitment of senior technical
staff to operate the laboratories. The laboratories would
be involved in a cattle disease survey which, over the
project period, would cover the five cattle carrying pro-
vinces in the region.
(iv) Support for the livestock marketing system by providing a
livestock marketing officer for a pilot project to develop
(through the purchase of a barge) livestock transport on
the White Nile. Since there is no existing marketing
agency, it is proposed that, as a condition of disburse-
ment for this component, Government prepare a plan for in-
stitutional arrangements satisfactory to the Association
(ref. Schedule 2, Para. 4(ii) Joint Project Agreement).
(v) A range ecology survey to determine rangeland types and
present use as an essential input into the planning of
livestock production schemes for pastoralists; the survey
would be implemented with assistance from the Project For-
mulation unit (ref. (c) (i) below).
(c) Institutional Aspects
(i) Establishment of a Project Formulation Unit (PFU) in the
Ministry of Agriculture to prepare district development
plans, conduct baseline surveys, and to run the monitoring
and evaluation unit established under the first project;
PFU would be headed by a chief planning adviser, recruited
under the project, who would also oversee the regional
smallscale agricultural development program;
(ii) Strengthening of the Project Development Unit (PDU), estab-
lished under the first project, which would implement most
project components; funds would be provided for all key
staff of PDU as well as for buildings, supplies and vehicles;
(iii) Establishment of five cooperative marketing and
development teams under a senior crops marketing
officer. The teams would be responsible for selling
input supplies (hand tools and seed) and for providing



- 13 -
rice threshers, maize shellers, coffee hullers and ox-drawn
equipment on medium-tenn credit (three year repayment, 9%
interest per annum); the teams would also help train farmer
association or cooperative members in management, credit
administration and would with technical advice from MCTS
assist extension staff to form farmer associations;
(iv) Provision of funds to the Ministry of Agriculture to
assist future project preparation and to undertake
special studies including one to assess the long term
budgetary implications of overall agricultural develop-
ment projects in the region.
(d) Extension and Training
(i) Establishment of two extension units -- one to operate
from the Yei center, the other from the Halima/Wau
center -- each headed by a senior extension officer to
be recruited under the project. The units would develop
a simple package program for all locally produced crops
that could be extended easily to farm families. The ratio
of extension staff to farmers would be about 1:750.
(ii) Provision of two nutritionists, one at each extension center,
to carry out surveys and implement nutrition extension
programs.
(iii) Expansion of the Agriculture Training Institute at Yei;
provision for 44 man-years of scholarships and short term
training courses.
(iv) Establishment of a development support media section,
headed by a senior communications officer recruited
under the project, to assist the crop, livestock and
nutrition extension services, help in the training of
junior level employees and to promote cooperation with
other projects, ministries and local administrators.
(v) Assistance to the training school for stockmen at Malakal,
established under the first project, through the funding
of teaching staff and operating costs to permit the
training of about 75 stockmen annually;
(e) Civil Works
(i) Strengthening of the building unit, established as part
of the PDU under the first project, through recruitment



- 14 -
of a chief civil works engineer, a building manager and
a building superintendent and through provision of a new
workshop including stores and an office in Juba. The
unit, which would handle all civil works requirements,
would also be provided with a drilling rig to drill and
equip about 20 wells.
(ii)  Expansion of the secondary and feeder road unit in the
PDU by doubling its size and replacing existing equipment
during the life of the project.  A road engineer, two
construction and two mechanical supervisors would be
recruited; the project would rehabilitate about 560 km
of feeder road and maintain the improved network.
(iii)  Establishment of four 200 ton district stores and fifty
distribution stores (40 tons each) for the buying and
selling of produce and input supplies.
Project Costs
34.       Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at US$56
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$40 million, or about 70 per-
cent of the total. Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing in December,
1978. Physical contingencies have been set at a rate of 5 percent on all
items including personnel to give project management some flexibility in
staffing. Experience from the first project shows that prices of goods and
services tend to increase more in the southern region than at the interna-
tional level, largely because of the isolation of the area and the fact that
virtually all imports must be obtained from Kenya via Uganda.  Consequently,
the following price contingency rates have been used: for all personnel, 5
percent per annum; for all locally produced goods and services 14 percent for
1979 and 10 percent thereafter; for all foreign costs 12 percent for 1979 and
10 percent thereafter. The price contingencies for salaries and wages have
been kept at 5 percent, as project costs are based on the new salary scales
which are being introduced and these will substantially increase pay for
public service employees including project staff. Physical and price contin-
gencies combined represent 26 percent on base cost. The Government will not
levy import duties on goods for the proposed project. Consequently all
capital items and the major operating costs such as petrol do not include a
local tax component. Other taxes such as border fees for shipments from Kenya
and charter plane landing fees are minimal and have not been separately
identified. A number of volunteers have been successfully employed under the
first project and it is expected that this source of technical assistance
would be continued. However, as it is difficult to allocate the exact number
and qualifications of such less costly staff, the Project provides a blend
cost of US$50,000 per man year for internationally recruited personnel. The
project also includes provision for about 15 man years (178 man months) of
consultancies at the rate of US$4,000 per month.



- 15 -
Project Financing
35.       Financing of the project would be shared as follows:
% of Total
Agency            Amount           Project Cost
(US$ m)
IDA                15.0                27
IFAD               15.0                27
ODM                18.5                33
Germany             1.9                 3
Government          5.6                10
TOTAL           56.0               100
About 85 percent of the Credit (US$13.2 million) would help finance the
foreign exchange requirements of the project; the remaining 15 percent (US$1.8
miLlion) would help finance local costs. The contribution to local cost
financing is considered justified because the project would essentially
benefit the poorest elements of the population in a region in which the
estimated per capita income ($80) is less than one-third of the national
level. IFAD would provide 11.7 million SDR's (equivalent to about US$15
million) essentially on the same terms as IDA except that a service charge of
I percent per annum would be levied on principal amounts of the loan withdrawn
and outstanding. Most of the proceeds of the IFAD loan would be used to
finance jointly with IDA such things as vehicles and equipment, experts' and
consultants' services, although a portion would help finance, on a parallel
basis, credit to farmers for purchase of certain equipment items (ref. Sched-
ule 2, Joint Project Agreement). ODM would provide US$18.5 million equivalent
to help finance certain crop development activities, the feeder road component
and experts' services. ODM funds would be on a grant basis. The Federal
Republic of Germany would provide the equivalent of US$1.9 million as a grant
through its technical assistance agency (GTZ) for the cattle disease survey.
Government would finance the remaining 10 percent of total project cost, the
equivalent of US$5.6 million. All cofinancing has been arranged in principle.
An additional condition of Credit effectiveness is that the IFAD Loan Agree-
ment and the Joint Project Agreement be duly ratified by the Government
(Section 5.02, draft Credit Agreement).
36.       The IDA Credit would be channelled through the Southern Regional
Government to PDU which would operate as an identifiable separate entity
within MOA and would have its own bank accounts, already established under the
first project. Experience with ongoing projects indicates that severe bud-
getary constraints and cash availability are major factors limiting the pace
of project implementation and consequently IDA disbursements. It is proposed,
therefore, that immediately after Credit effectiveness, an initial IDA dis-
bursement of US$1.0 million would be made to serve as a revolving fund to
finance the project's day to day operating expenditures. US$400,000 would
be paid into PDU's account in Nairobi, to help facilitate procurement, and



- 16 -
US$600,000 into their local account. IDA would replenish the revolving fund
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that such expenditure was eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit. However, should any disbursement
fail to meet this condition, Government would be obliged to deposit the cor-
responding amount into PDU's accounts.  Appropriate assurances were agreed
during negotiations and incorporated into the legal documents. (Section 2.02,
draft Joint Project Agreement).
37.       After completion of the Project, and excluding debt service, the
annual cost to Government to maintain the level of extension and other serv-
ices would amount to about US$8.0 million equivalent, stabilizing at US$5.0
million from Year 11 onwards and leading to a cumulative deficit of US$66.0
million equivalent by Year 20. The costs for continuing the services are
normally covered from general budget allocations. To help ensure that these
sources will be sufficient, the Government agreed to carry out a study,
assisted by consultants if necessary, to establish with more precision the
long-term budgetary implications of all agricultural development projects in
the Southern Region. The results of the study, which would help provide a
framework for establishing priorities and a more rational allocation of
resources, would be discussed with the Association before June 30, 1980.
(Section 4.08, draft Joint Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
38.       The project, in most of its aspects, would be implemented by the
Ministry of Agriculture of the Southern Region through the Project Development
Unit which was established under the first project. However, the animal
health program and the Malakal stockman training school would come under
jurisdiction of the MOA's director of animal resources and deputy director for
research and training respectively.
39.       Given the diversity of activities proposed under the project, and
the increasing number of externally financed development efforts in the
Southern Region, it is considered essential that management of the MOA be
strengthened, particularly with respect to planning/coordination capability.
As indicated earlier (para. 32), the proposed project would help in this
regard through establishment of a Project Formulation Unit headed by a chief
planning adviser and through implementation of the new regional small-scale
agricultural development program (RSADP). The MOA has been reorganized and a
new Director General appointed who would report to the Mlinister for the
Ministry's daily operations. Given the critical nature of the post, however,
written confirnation of the appointment of the Director General is proposed as
an additional condition of Credit effectiveness. (Section 5.01, draft Credit
Agreement).
40.       The planning and coordination of all RSADP activities would be the
responsibility of the chief planning adviser, with the Project Formulation
Unit (PFU) working directly under him; he, in turn, would report to the new
Director General. The PFU would include a land use planner, a farm management
specialist and a rural sociologist, all to be recruited under the project.



- 17 -
The main responsibilities would be to carry out base line surveys in districts
entering the development program; to prepare specific district development
plans; to draw up, with the project manager, an improved system of project
monitoring, largely to be carried out by field departments; to carry out in
depth surveys for evaluation purposes, such as on farmer adoption rates, the
impact of extension and increases in family incomes. Although the coordinator
would not have direct operational responsibility for execution of the project,
he would be expected to liaise closely with the Project Development Unit and
its head, the Project Director (Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 4 of draft Joint
Project Agreement). An RSADP executive committee would be set up to oversee
the program implementation (Section 3.01(d), draft Joint Project tgreement).
41.       The day-to-day execution of project activities would be the prime
responsibility of the Project Director. He would report to the Director
General and would liaise with the RSADP chief planning adviser.  iroject
implementation would proceed according to agreed work plans, approved by
the RSADP executive committee and submlitted to the Association for review
(Section 3.07, draft Joint Project Agreement). In implementing the annual
work plans, the project director and his deputy would be supported by two
assistants -- one each stationed in the major crop development centers at Yei
and Halima/Wau. Execution of project activities would be supervised through
the six PDU divisions: Finance and administration; crop development; rural
services; veterinary services; livestock production and construction services
(Schedule 4, draft Joint Project Agreement).
42.       Four districts would enter the development phase during the life of
the project and two would enter the preparatory phase. With the benefit of
strengthened extension services and results from on-farm trials, packages of
improved crop husbandry practices would be introduced in the development
districts. These packages would involve the use of good seeds of improved
varieties, correct plant populations, sowing and weeding at the right times,
better crop storage, adequate supplies of hand tools and the introduction of
work oxen where appropriate. Assistance for coffee and cotton growing activi-
ties would be provided more widely in the region.
43.       The majority of foodcrops produced under the project (sorghum,
maize, finger millet, groundnuts) would be consumed by farmers while a small
proportion would be sold in local markets. Some 20,000 tons of sorghum are
presently imported each year into the region for urban consumers; but even
this does not represent the real shortfall as many farmers are short of food
just when it is not available or when they do not have the means to buy it.
Cotton would be sold to the Equatoria Province Agricultural Production
Corporation (EPAPC); input costs for cotton spraying would not be charged
directly to the farmers but recovered through a cess built into the buying
price by EPAPC, which would then reimburse PDU. Coffee is purchased by
private traders. Recommendations for buying prices of project crops would
be established by the senior crops marketing officer, recruited under the
project, and approved by the RSADP executive committee. Prices would relate
to wholesale prices in the Juba and Wau markets and would be flexible to
reflect seasonal adjustments.



- 18 -
44.       Credit would be extended for coffee hullers, maize shellers and rice
threshers and ox-drawn equipment in the early stages of the project through
the PDU's cooperative marketing and development teams. Only farmers' associa-
tions would be eligible for credit at first. The credit program would be a
minor component involving an allocation of only about US$400,000; the credit
would be extended on the basis of three year repayment, with 9 percent inter-
est per annum (Section 3.08, draft Joint Project Agrement). Annual inflation
in Sudan has averaged 24, 22 and 20 percent in 1976, 1977 and 1978 and is
expected to decline gradually from an estimated 18 percent in 1979 to 8 per-
cent in 1983. The proposed rate of 9 percent is consistent with the rate
currently charged throughout the country by the Agricultural Bank of Sudan.
It is expected that, in time, branches of the Agricultural Bank of Sudan and
the Regional Cooperative Bank will be established in Juba. If these prove to
be viable institutions with a tested capacity for handling medium-term credit,
the project would turn over its credit operations to the two institutions
(Section 3.08, draft Joint Project Agreement). Seasonal credit is not
required; most farmers find adequate money from crop sales and cash reserves
or from the sale of livestock. Improved seed would be sold to participating
farmers for cash.
45.       Due to the shortage of senior staff within Government and generally
within the Southern Region the Project would continue to remain heavily
dependent on international recruitment.  It is estimated that the Project
would reqluire a total of 67 technical assistance staff.  Twenty-seven of the
positions are presently filled, either through the first project or through
development efforts assisted by other external agencies. Seven of these are
filled by ODM, who have agreed to provide a further 15.  Some are also obtained
from volunteer agencies, and the Project would continue to recruit from them.
This would leave Government to recruit staff for 24 more positions. A large
recruitment program has been initiated. In view of the severe shortage of
local professional staff, considerable emphasis would be placed on in-service
training. Local graduate staff would act as deputies with specific responsi-
bilities rather than as counterparts to internationally recruited staff. The
Government agreed that administrative guidelines would be established for
upgrading certificate-level staff (Section 4.05, draft Joint Project Agree-
ment). So far as key project staff are concerned, Government agreed that the
Project Director's qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to the Association and the Fund (Section 3.01
(c), draft Joint Project Agreement). Other key staff, such as the head of
the Project Formulation Unit, PDU's-Deputy Project Director, Financial
Controller, Assistant Project Directors and division heads would be appointed
after consultation with the Association (Schedule 4, Part A-3 and B-2, draft
Joint Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       Proceeds of the proposed Credit would be used to finance part
of the crop development activities, vehicles and equipment, technical assis-
tance, some civil works, local salaries and operating costs. About 85 percent



- 19 -
($13.2 million) of the proposed Credit of US$15 million would represent
foreign exchange expenditures, the remaining 15 percent (US$1.8 million) would
help finance local costs. Procurement of vehicles, equipment, machinery and
prefabricated houses (US$2.5 million equivalent excluding contingencies)
in orders above US$200,000 equivalent would be by international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank Group guidelines. Contracts of less than
US$200,000 equivalent would be through local competitive bidding, which
includes adjacent countries, in accordance with Government procedures which
are satisfactory to the Association. Contracts under US$25,000 equivalent
would be awarded after evaluation of quotations from at least three suppliers;
however, such purchases would not exceed US$1.0 million. Draft tender docu-
ments for all contracts exceeding US$200,000 would be submitted to the Asso-
ciation for approval before invitations to bid are issued. Orders under any
of the above three procedures would be grouped whenever possible. The ser-
vices of internationally recruited staff and consultants to be financed by IDA
would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Civil works (US$700,000 equivalent) would not attract international bidders
due to the remoteness and dispersed locations of individual small tasks and
would be executed by PDU's building unit. The IFAD procurement procedures
would be the same as those of IDA. Procurement for parts of the Project
financed by ODM and GTZ would be based on the procedures of these institutions.
47.       Disbursement of funds from the proposed Credit would be on the
following basis:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 90 percent of local
expenditures for vehicles and equipment (US$2.1 million);
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants and
internationally recruited staff (US$6.1 million);
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 78 percent of local
expenditures for operating costs, including local salaries
(US$4.2 million);
US$2.6 million would remain unallocated. Disbursement against foreign exchange
costs under (a) and (b) and (c) and local costs under (a) would be fully
documented. Disbursements against local costs under (c) would be made against
appropriate certificates of expenditure certified by the Project Manager, the
documentation of which would be retained by the Borrower and made available
for inspection by the Association during the course of supervision missions.
Before any disbursements would be made under the livestock marketing compo-
nent, the Government would have agreed with the Association on a plan for a
marketing organization (Section 4.04, Schedule 2, draft Joint Project Agree-
ment).
Accounts and Audit
48.       Separate accounts would be kept reflecting the expenditures financed
by the different agencies. Project related accounts would be audited by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association within six months of the end



- 20 -
of each fiscal year.  (Section 4.01(c), draft Joint Project Agreement).
PDU would prepare annual and semi-annual implementation/progress reports
and make them available to the co-financiers. The annual report would in-
clude comparisons of actual achievements against appraisal report estimates
with supporting explanatory commentary. (Section 3.04, draft Joint Project
Agreement).
Environmental Impact
49.       The Project would have an overall beneficial effect on the environ-
ment in the Region. Improved physical planning under the PFU would contribute
to better resource use, and the range ecology survey would indicate which
areas are in danger of overgrazing and which have high grazing potential. It
would aim to further soil and water conservation by better husbandry prac-
tices, and improve living conditions through crop and nutrition extension.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
50.       The Project would bring about significant agricultural development
in the Southern Region of the Sudan, building on the foundations laid by the
first project (Credit 476-SU) and associated projects and initiating the first
phase of a twenty year program that is directed at improving the lot of the
large mass of subsistence farmers and pastoralists. The main thrust of the
project would be increased production of food crops and improved nutrition.
In the four districts entering the development phase, 44,000 farm families
would eventually benefit; some 32,000 of these in the Ironstone Plateau would
receive increased incomes, from an average of US$200 per annum at present to
about US$350 from the use of improved seed and better agricultural practices.
Average incomes of the 12,000 farmers in the Greenbelt would increase US$200
per annum from about $320 currently to about US$520. During the project
period improved seed would also be made available to 25,000 farmers outside
these districts. Three thousand new coffee farmers would obtain increased
incomes of US$400 per year, while another 3,500 existing coffee farmers would
receive an additional US$50 per year. A further 2,400 cotton farmers would
receive an additional US$70 per annum from incremental cotton production.
Project support to improved animal disease control is assumed to reduce herd
mortality rates by a quarter of one percent, which is equivalent to increasing
annual income by US$50 for some 11,000 pastoralists.
51.       The Project's main quantifiable benefits would be increased produc-
tion of food and cash crops and savings in livestock mortality. Based on
projected export/import parity prices these benefits would result in foreign
exchange earnings/savings of about US$15.0 million per annum at full develop-
ment in 1991/92.  After allowance is made for the foreign exchange component
of operating costs needed to sustain the Project after the development period,
net foreign exchange earnings/savings would be about US$13 million per annum.
The Project would also have a number of other benefits which are more diffi-
cult to quantify, the principal one being improved nutrition and reduction in
occasional famine. Roads and marketing facilities would also produce benefits
beyond those included in the rate of return calculation, and the emphasis on
institution building and training would further improve the Region's capacity
to implement development projects.



- 21 -
52.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 15 percent over
20 years. In calculating the rate of return, all costs which are yield
related were included. Thus, the full costs of coffee and cotton development,
seed production, crop research, agricultural extension and nutrition, rural
services division, crop marketing, development support media, Yei Agricultural
Training Institute, training school for stockmen and animal health control
were included. Only 50 percent of the cost of the PDU headquarters, feeder
road construction and building units were included as half of their activities
are not for production related activities. Excluded are planning and prep-
aratory activities, which comprise the PFU, the Range Ecology survey and
preparatory phase activities in new districts, the cattle disease survey,
the pilot livestock production activil:ies at Marial Bai and pilot livestock
marketing. The rate of return is thus based on about 58 percent of Project
base costs. The 5 percent physical contingency was also included. In the
almost complete absence of alternative employment opportunities, farm family
labor was valued at 30 piasters per man-day, the average return to subsistence
agriculture workers. Economic prices for the major crops and farm livestock
were derived from Bank projected prices on an export or import parity basis
depending on whether Sudan is an exporter (most cereal grains, oilseeds,
cotton and livestock) or an importer (coffee and rice). Production of sor-
ghum, which, unlike the sorghum traded internationally, is of human food
quality in the Sudan, was valued at maize prices, as was millet. Production
of cassava flour and of beans, which are not traded internationally, were
valued at 1978 local market prices corrected for seasonal fluctuation. Inter-
nationally recruited staff were valued at full economic cost of US$60,000
per annum.
53.       From past experience, the risks most likely to affect the project
are: delays in project implementation or lower production caused by lower
than anticipated yields and farmer adoption rates. The need to recruit and
retain sufficient technical assistance staff in the Region is essential. Also
better logistical support and fuel supplies are imperative to ensure timely
and well supervised Project implementation. To test the effect of delayed
implementation, the rate of return was recalculated with a one year delay in
the build up of the benefit stream, which reduced the rate of return to 11.5
percent. Lowering crop returns by 20 percent to reflect lower yields and
adoption rates reduced the rate of return to 9 percent. Combining a year's
delay in benefits with 20 percent lower crop returns reduced the rate of
return to 6 percent. In view of the Project's potential to bring about
significant improvement in the living standards of some of Sudan's poorest
farmers and pastoralists, these risks are considered acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Joint Project Agreement
between the Democratic Republic of Sudan, the Association and the Interna-
tional Fund for Agricultural Development and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 22 -
Special features of the Development Credit Agreement and the Joint Project
Agreement are referred to in Section 3 of Annex III.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMIENDATIONS
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
Aprl1 2A, 1q79



- 23 -                                                      ANNfX I
TABWL  A                                                   Page  1
SUDU - SOCIAL INDICATOnS DATA SHEBT
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SUDAN                                                 k
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM. )                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL          2505.8                                                SAME        SAME    NEMT RIc
AGRICULTURAL    315.0                               MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb   1970 .& tSTIIATE /b      REGION Le  GROUP Ld   GIIOUP LA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)               140.0       170.0    300.0           223.6      432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    52.0       130.0    140.0            86.7      251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(0ILLIONS)                      10.8        13.6      16.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 8.6       11.8      13.2           13.6       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      4.0         6.0       7.0            18.4      42.7        50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   37.0        46.0      52.0           53.6       95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       47.0 Lt    45.0       45.0           44.4       44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                       51.0 ft    52.0       52.0           52.7       52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 2.0 f       3.0       3.0            2.8        3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.3         2.3 L&    2.9 /A         2.6        2.7         2.5
URBAN                             ..         5.5       2.2            5.8        8.8         4.7
CRUDE PIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.7       48.9      47.8           46.9       42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.7       20.2      17.5           20.6       12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             ..         3.4       3.4            3.1        3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..        ..            2.5       14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           86.5       100.0    104.5            94.2      104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  81.0       72.0      88.0           90.1       99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        55.0        63.0 th  65.1            55.2       56.8        63.0
OF VHICH ANML AND PULSE          ..       23.6      23.1           17.1       17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..         ..        ..             ..        7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   41.1       46.1      48.6           43.7       53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         159.0         *      132.0          138.4       82.5        53.9
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        19.0      33.0           22.4       31.1        56.8
URBAN                             *-        61.0      59.0           66.3       68.5        79.0
RURAL                             ..        13.0      26.0           10.4       18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRErA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        16.0      22.0           23.9       37.5        30.9
URBAN                             ..       100.0    100.0            70.3       69.5        45.4
RURAL                             ..         4.0      10.0           14.2       25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       31000.0    14200.0  10SS0.0          21757.5    9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER  UMSING PERSON   1030.0 /f  1740.0   1360.0           3473.8    2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSITAL rED
TOTAL                          1000.0      930.0    960.0           645.4      786.5      493.9
135AM                             ..          ..    290.0           172.9      276.4      229.6
itURA                             ..          ..   2270.0          1292.6    1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HDSPITAL BED         ..          ..      16.9           19.2       19.2        22.1
AVEUCE SIZE OF NOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..         5.1       ..             4.9        ..         5.2
URBAN                             ..         5.7 ft    .              5.0         ..5.0
RURAL                                        5 7 L                    4.7                    5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROo0
TOTAL                                        2 5        .                        2 i         2.0
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..              ..         ..        2.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                       26-4 /                     ..       2S.3       64.1
URAN                                        26.4                                           67.8
RURAL                            l..          ..        ..             ..       10.        34.1



- 24 -                                                             ANNEX I
Page 2
S0DA-S0CiAL INDICATORS DATA SNEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTFD AVERAES
SUDU N
- MOST RECEIT ESTIMATE)
SAIIE       SANE     NEXT HIGEER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCONE
1960 A      1970 A  ISTItATE Lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP Ae
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLHNrE RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 25.0        33.0       34.0            52.1        75.8        99.8
FrEALE               14.0        26.0      25.0             37.6       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0          7.0      14.0             8.0        17.7        33.8
FEMALE                1.0         4.0        7.9             5.0       12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCIT 0  SECONDARY)  3.0          1.4 /1    1.0 /t,_k       7.2         7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PREURY                            41.0        47.0       39.0            43.2        34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                         20.0         17.0      22.0            22.8        23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        13.1        15.0 L      *-            20.3        63.7        71.8
ComSsurrnou
PASSENGER CARS PER TH0USUD
POPInLATIW                         1.4          2.0        ..             3.9         7.2        12.4
RADIO RCEIVERS PER TNDUSAMD
POPULATION                         1.0         19.0                      40.1        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAMD
POPULATIN                            ..         2.9       6.0             2.2        14.1        28.1
ENSPAPERt ("DAILY rGEEtAL
INTEREST") CIRCUlATION PER
ThDUSAND POPUL.ATION                 4.0           ..       8.0              3.9       16.3        45.2
CINIXA AaNUAL ATTEWACE PR CAPiTA  0.8              ..       1.4              1.2        1.6         4. 6
UIPLOTNR
TOTAL LAOR PORCIE (THOUSANDS)     3700.0       4500.0    4443.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   9.6         10.2      10.6            32.6        28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             86.0         80.0      66.5            73.3        54.1        46.2
INWSTRT (PERCENT)                  6.2          7.8       7.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PEtCENT)
TOTAL                               33.0         32.1      31.5            42.0        37.8        33.8
MALE                                 59.1        56.9      55.8             54.8       50.3        48.1
PDFEE                                6.4          6.6       6.7            27.3        20.9        17.3
ECONIC DEPEUDENCT RATIO                 1.5         1.5       1.7              1.2        1.3          1.4
IEOME DISTIRUTION
PERCUIT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED SY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF NOUSEIOLDS   20.9 l         ..        ..            25.7        19.5        23.6
RICHEST 20 PERCEIT OF HOUSEOLDS  50.1 I        49.2                       5 ..   5.1  48.9       52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCEINT OF HOUSENOLDS    5.0 /       51                          8 /n   5.8  5.9       4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF NOUSIHOLDS   13.9 /       14.5 /      ..             14.5       15.7        13.1
POvERTTY TARGET GRODPS
tSTImAIED AISurt PoVERTT iNCm
LEVL (US5 PE  CAPITA)
URM                                  ..          ..        ..            108.8      155.9       199.9
RURAL                               ..           ..      80.0             J4.1       97.9       193.1
r 1MATED RELATIVt POVERTR Inco
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
uR                                   ..          ..     115.0            124.4      143.7       319.8
RURAL                               ..           ..      70.0             59.6       87.3       197.7
ESTIMATD POPUlAnTR BEW  POVRTY
INCO1    LVEI (PERCET)
URMI                                ..           ..      25.0             26.8       22.9        19.8
RURAL                                *-          *-      85.0            47.6        36.7        35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Is    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted Reometric mwans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countri.. aong the
indicators depends on availability of data and i- not unifors.
/b    Unlesa otherwise noted, dats for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; end for Most Recont tatiaste, betwen 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($55l-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1962;   LI  Due to imaigration, population growth rate is lower than
the rate of natural increase;   lb  1972;   /i  1965;  Li Beginning 1970, the duration of general secondary
education was reduced from 8 to 6 years;   /k  Includes progrsm of 5 training centers operated by Dept. of
Labor and 17 ahort-term centers operated by Min. of Youth and Sports;   L    1966;   /   1963, Ondurman (urban);
1!  1967-68.
Septemtber, 1978



- 25-
ANNEX 
DEFOSNITIONIS OP SOCIAL INDOICATORS
Page 3
dots; The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric meson, ex-luding the extreme -alues of the i,s l-tarn ad the no.t
populated country In each group.  Coverage of coustire  ammng the iudi-catowa depend. oo availability of data and is not uniform.  Due  -v Lack of data,
group average. for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and iadina.r.oraf enacse to vaste and ma.rota disposal. housing, Incom distribution and poverty ore
aImpld4 pop.l.tio.-vaightsd geometric masse without the aesluaoto of extreme valuma.
Ajc6  UAMA  ithousand eq. k.)                                                            Pulto ahsptled-total, urban. and rurl - Populutioc (total.
Iotal - Total eurface Area comprising land area end inland waters,                        urban, AMd rural) divided by their respective number of hoepital beds
Agricultural - Next recent estimate of agricultural area uuad temorarily                  available in public and private general mmd specialixed hospital  zof ye-
or.peomnenatly for crepe, pastures, macbat and kitchen gardems or to                    habtilCtattoo centers.  Hlospitals ors eecablialarsts parsmently otaUed b>
lie  allow,                                                                             at least one physician.  Zstahbliehmants providing prixcipelly custodial
cars are not intluded. Rrtal hospitals, however, include health snd -adi-
GNP7 PER CAPITA (Ull)  - GNP per cap  s estimates at currant merkat prices,                ceI renters met Permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical a-
calculated by sae  conversion method AM World Sank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               isitant, normse, midwife, err.) which offer in-patient accoowdation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admiasion  per 1iemitl bed - Total somber of Admissions to or dischargex
ENERG3Y CONISUMPTIONI PER CAPITA - Annual comeumption of comeerrial energy                 fromt hoopitalandivided by the number of beds.
(oai and ligmita, petroleum. natural gas end hydro-   o u.olmr AMd Seo-         -
thermal electricity) in kilogreme of coal equivalent per capita.HO$
Averale size of household (persons par household) ,- total. urbee. amd rural -
P0PULATSOPI An   IA  SAITC                                                                 A h..smhoId ro..aisto of a group of individuals who sha.. living quartes"
Tota                     Amu~in.a4ve  (alioe  k e of July 1: if not available,            an   hir main meals.  A boa:rder or lodger mAy or may not be includad 00
avrg   ftwo en-ymar estImates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                         the household for stetinrIcal purposes.  Statistical definitions of houses-
Urbap pop%lation teerromi of tota) - Ratio of urbeni to total popula-                     hold vary.
ths  differen  dfintin  of urban  rarsa may affect comparability                   Average .omer oi persons per room - total. urbax. end cuirl   k Lyrage num-
Pouf datoanamong coumtries,                                                              her of persoca per room  ir all. urban, and rural occupied comeerntinna1
Poultio  density                                                                       dwellings, respectivsly.  Dwellings ...clud  000-permanent structures and
P:     s ,- Slid-yast populatimn per square kilometer (100 hectares)              unoccupied parts.
of  toftaar.                                                                         Access to electricity toerrent,ofdela) - tural. uchbm. and rural -
Pe 8n.k.  giceultuer, land - Computed as  hobv. for agricultural lend             Conventional dwelling  with ectricity in living quarters as percentate
Penly.  oa sf total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
population a:ete. tiuctuirs(macsent - Children (0-14 years) , woeking-age
(15-64 years)  and rted(63 years  and over) me percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                    Adj!usted enrolment retina
Population arowth  rt   pect)-ttleduba-Cmond annul                                     Prmr   coo      oa,an  female - Total end fem.al  nrelmasnt of all moms
grwhraee oftta            hedubn mid-yost pplationa for 1950460,                    at the primary level aso percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70. and 1970-75.                                                                   population.; normally includes children aged 6-11 years hait adjusted for
Crude birth rate (jar thouseo) - Annual live birth. per thousand of                       different lengths of prixary education; for countries with unI-reral edc-
Mid-pear population; ton-year arithmetic averags*  ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may sc    100 percent since asne pupils are helow or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for mast recnst estimate,                    above the official school age.
Crude death' rate (per thousand) - Anua"l dasthe per thoueasd of mid-                   Secondary school I- total. ard female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averagma ending in 1960 and 1970                   tino requires at least f0cr years of appro..ed primary  mastrsction  Pron-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          videm ga.eral vocatinm1. or teacher traimime i"ntoutdaea foe  pupil.
Gross roprodustion rate - Average oumbAr of daughtera a woman will bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correpondence ceurosesare generally
in har wmeal ceproductive period if eh. experiences prasent age-                       macladed.
sPecific ffIlt   ratm usually five-year a                 ..eesadi.g in 1960,        Vocational enroll..st I asrost of secondary) - Vosti.nal lnstitution  In--
1970, and 1973.                                                                         clude technical, Industrial. or other progream  which operate independectly
family planming - acceptors. ennual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or as departments of secondary instituttoos
ac.oeptora of birth-control de-ioes under auspices of  atiomeI folly                Pupil-tea..her ratio - primary, and mm... d.ry - Total stuadent. surcllad In
Planning program.                                                                       primary mNd secondary laoedivided by numbers of teachers In the torte-
Family plannin  -mraprcnof married women) - Percent.ag  of                                epondieg levelo.
mans   se   fuhird-bea:cio  sag  (15-44 years) who use birth-control          Adult literary rate (percent) - Literate adults (able te reed ad write) me
device. to all married women insamea  age group.                                        a p-ermatage of tota  adu lt population Aged 15 years amd over.
POOD ANDS OUTRITIONI                                                                  CONSSSlTION
Ind"n of feed pooutionpr capita (197D1'00) - tndsa number of per                     Paesenlae  cars (per thousand population) - Passenger care comprise motor cars
capia anualprouctin o  allfoo t  meoitit.:eating lens than eight persons; excluode  ambulaoces, beers.. and military
Per capita supaly of calories (perct ofraioata       optd froe                         vmicles.
energy equivalent of not fond supplies available In country per capita              tadio receivaer  (Part thousasnd gnnulstioni. - All types of retainers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domaestic production, imports less             broadcasts t. ognara.  pu rpr thoseand of population; emolud.. -liraneed
exports, and changee in stock.  Net supplies seclude animal feed, ~soda,             receivers it countries mnd int yeats  when registration of radix sets was in
quantities used In food processing, and losses tin distribution.  Re-                ef fart; data for recent yeers may not ho comparable since meet countries
quiremmnta Vera .stimet.d b~y FAO based on physilolgical needs for nor-              abolished lcmig
mel activiy and health considering environmental temperature, bedy                  TV rerei-era (par thousand population)  - TV receivers for broadcaet to geear&L
weights, age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thoumand Population; excludes unlicensed TV reeamiver  in coun-
cen t far inaeast  rhoweebo14 leval.                                                    trio. end in peac   evh.  e-lactration of rV mete  me. 9. effect.
Per capita Su.ply of Protein (aLroma per igl) - Protein content of per                Seaee  cruaio   prtousadpopulation) - Shxwe the  .aveag  circels-
rapita not supply of food par day.  Not supply of food is definad as                   tin of Adaily 1eneralintsreacnwspape,dfiedaspeoicl sb-
aboey.  Requirements for alL countrIes aetablished by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general newa .  It is considered to
a  minime allowance of 60 grams of,total protein per day and 20 grams                 be "daily" If It appearese ateet four times a seek.
of snival And polses Protein, of shch 10 grams should he animal proesin.            Cin       nulatiedneer ceit.jy                   l~  ased on the mn"r of ticke ts
Theme mtandards are lvewr than those of 75 grams of total protein and                   slduigtear,nc.dgadiinato drive-io cisnme  and mobiLe
23 grams of aaimal protein As so average for the sorld, Proposed by                    unIte.
PAO in the Thrd World Pond Survey.
Per capita protelas upply from Animal and pulse - Protein mupply of food             EltPLOYONZST
"derioed from   aniasad pulse   .grs   d  day.                                       lotal labora force (thonasenda) - Ec-onoically active pereons. including armed
Child(sassi-A)  ortalty rae (pr thousad)  _ Annual deaths Per thoum-             focsaduemployed but excluding housewives, atdmats, etc.  Df int-
And in age group 1-4 yeace, to chidre  inthis.ag  grou.P.                              tioma in verious countries ear  ndt comparable.-
HEALTH                                                           F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pmals 1 percent) - female Labor force as percentage of totel labor force.
OEAITH                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Asrirdlt4.e  Pmaccett)- ilb- force in facaing. forentry. bunting And fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average ntumber~ of pears of life                     me percentege oftota  labor forte.
remaining at birtb; usually five-year averagas ending 10 1960, 1970,                Industy..(lgr gt  - LAbor forte in mining, opastrection. manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity-. Watr an  gas a% percentage of itotl labor force.
Infant mortality r&at  (pe&touand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   pentirpatie  rate isercant) - total. I~l.sadf                 Total, male, end
one pea  of Ag  per tousandlve bifhts.                                          m Le lbor ~orce aso Prcentages or theiMepctv   oulcoa
Ace,=    to seE water (osreent of eonlattmpI - total, urban. end rural -                  Thsae Arm 11.'s ediseted p.rtitPetiOe rat- reflecting ems-sos
Slumber of Pepe(ta,ubnad  ual)with roasnnablo atccec to                                 structure of the pepaletion. An  Long tiam trend.
safe water supply (includes treasted surfac. insate nor untreated hint              t-aa.i.  db     ecesri  - Ratio of popsl.tioc .9md- 15 and 61 And over to
uncontaminated water ouch as that from protected borehols, sprisja,                     th   ao   orei  g  group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of thair respective popuilations.
In an urban areafa public fountain or otandpost located out more                   suCm   DISTRt1flUTIONl
then 200 meter from a house may b. considered as being within tee-                  Pecenea oprivate iscm  (both in cash And hind) received by richest 5
sonable  .....sa of that booms.  It rural at."a reasonable access would                percent,* richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent * and poorest 40 percept
imply that the bousawif a or members of the houmahald do not- have to                  of heunah.1da.
epand a dieproportion.te part of the day In fetching the family's
Wate  ned.povERn TARGET GROUPS
Access to excrete dispos1al ipsrcytof 1bno.puistto    -total  aeo end                 Estimated absolute poverty Income level  (000 per capita) -  rban a.,I rurmal
rural - Number ofpol   ttl   ra,adrrl erved by excrete                                   Absolute poverty inccme Level 0. that incpma level below  which a minimal
diapoa  as I.  percentagee of their respective populations,   t-octa                  nutritionally edequate diet plus essential non-fond requirements So not
dispue..  ma MYoo.lud* the colla-tis. aod disposal,1 with co without                     fftcrgablt.
treatment, of buman sexcrete and waste-stetr by wster-bonro  systema                Estimated relativo novecty income level fWS$ Per capital - inches and cr..rl
or the use of pit privies and similar imstallatiocs. .                                  telstive Poverty (scrap level is that inco3e level Lees that one-third
Popuatin on ehsican   Population divided by member of practicing                    per capits personal incoes  of the rou.rt-
phyalcin    ulfes!o       eia   chool at univeroity level.                          Estimaetd Populatio  below ponery Lacommd level (percent) - urban and r.raS1
Populaion pr swnera peeon -Population divided by numbe  of                       Peccant of popolarir tubseedr:          giwoarrihr  aelrepo"o
practicing msal aNd fenele graduate nurses, practical -orses. acod                     "reLstiys yant" whichever ia greeter
assstant nurse..
EnEconoic mod  ofal D.t. Divinior
nronmi c Analysis and Projections Dopartoect



ANNEX I
Page 4
SOONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                         1970-75             1965 -70           1972
ONP at Market Prices          4,438.6    100.0                            4.5
Gross Domestic Investment       839.0      18.9                          11.4
Gross National Saving           391.6       8.8                           4.9
Current Account Balance        -519.0      11.7
Exports of Goods, NFS           696.0      15.7
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,304.0      29.4
OUTFUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITI IN 1976
Value Addedl/                  Labor Fore-                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln. --                       Mln ' f i-
Agriculture                   1,782.7      43.9
Industry                         529.4     13.0
Services                      1,748.5      43.1
Unallocated
Total/Average            .          __
4-05.  02;0- .05.                                                        100 0
GOENNUDiT FINANCE
Oeneral Governoent                               Central Govermeent
XV    J.n.)           oG(LSd. Nln.)   S                                  o!fGD
197           157        196                      1976/7  FY 197-!       FY191r-7r
Current Receipts                      ..            ..                               394.8        22.5          21.2
Current Eapenditure                   ..            ..                               396.6        22.6          19.7
Current Surplus                       -                                                -1.8                        -
Capital Expenditures'                                                                159.4         9.1           7.9
Erternal Assistance (net)                                                              22.1         1.2           3.6
m)NEY. CREDIT and PRICES                 FY1971        FY1972       FY1973       FY1974       FY1975      FY1976    FY1977
(Million    outstanding end period)
Money and quasi Money                      130.6         146.2      190.9        245.2        292.4       368.2      515.4
Bank credit to Public Sector               112.2        139.6       152.6        196.5        329.4       431.5      595.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector               83.9          98.9      113.9        141.9        206.6       250.9      287.6
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           20.8          18.7        21.9         22.2        20.1        24.2       29.3
General Price Index (1970 - 100)4/         108.2         120.9      141.6        178.6        221.4       225.1      271.7  5/
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                          1.4          11.7        17.1        26.1         24.0         1.6       20.7
Bank credit to Public Sector                24.5          24.4         9.3        28.8         67.6        31.0       37.9
Bank credit to Private Sector                6.1          17.9        15.2        24.6         45.6        21.4       14.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
_V Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatedf consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first Job.
i/ At market prices
3/ Expenditures from Development Budget (Includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
4/ Refers to low salaried cost of living index.
(Less than Lsd 500 per annum).                  .. not available
5/ Refera to the first three quarters.              . not applicable
EA2DB
December t, 1978



-27 -                                                            ANNEX I
BAIAIUJ O  FAN~35MNAL AES3TAUOU AND  rM
(asois   in       ccalems of U.S. doLlars at rasrnt prTce.)
Avg. Annual
Actual                          Ratisated                                      Proeoted                            Growth Rate
1974         1973         19765         1977                        178           9     -      980         1985-         1974-1980
SUMKARY BAlANCE OF PAYMITS
ERports (ino. tlFS)                     458.0        515.0       696.0         782.0                         840.1        966.3      1125.7        2181.9         16.2
lorts (inel. NFS)                       881.0       1202.0      1304.0        1492.0                        1555.6       1650.8      1755.0        3077.3         12.2
Reiouree  B lanc   (X-!t)           -423.0       -687.0      -608.0        -710.0                        -715.5       -684.5      -629.3         895.4 4.
Intercst (eetY       '                  -19.0       -54.0         52.0         -79.0                       -161.8       -183.6      -197.9         -255.2         46.5
Othor Factor Pay-ents                                         -            -                     -                    -            -                   -
Direct Investment Income                -11.0         -2.0       -47.0         -34.0                            -            -           -              -            -
Workers' Remittance */                   30.0         102.0       178.0         259.0                        274.6        291.0       308.5         412.8          47.0
cu tTransi'ers tnet)              3.0           -         10.0          37.0                          40.7         44.8        49.2          79.3         58.0
balanc     CurretAconat                -420.0       -641.0      -519.0         -527.0                       -562.1       -532.3      -469.5        -658.5          =
Private Direct Investjernt                               -           -             -                          10.O         30.0        50.0          88.1
Otficial Capital brants                    6.0         32.0       21.0           20.0                         2D.0         50.0        53.0           70.9         44.0
public t4kLT Loans
Disbursements                         552.0        424.0       379.0          132.0                        321.6        407.7       390.2         251.3         -3.0
-Repane! ts                            -40.0        -75.0      -119.0        -141.0                        -218.2       -229.0      -265.8        -330.9          37.0
Net Disbursrnt.nts                      512.0         349.0       260.0          -9.0                        10.4         178.7       124.3          -79.6        -21.0
Other MlUT Loans
DOisbur senento                                                                                                                                         
eents                                                       -   -                                                   - -                            -
N:tDisbur.sment.
Capital Transactioms n.e.i.  b/         -133.0       -102.0      -134.0       -516.0                                                -                   -
Change in Net Reserv6   (- increase)    35'0          362.0       104.0           -                          -10.7        -14.5       -15.9          -50.3
Actual                  Estimated
GRANT AND IOAN OOlMK9lS                                                                          DEBT AD DEBT SERVICE              1974    9u57     1               13i97;
Official Grants & Grant-like              35.0         32.0        21.0         20.0           PubliC Debt Out. 6 Disbursed    723.0   1290.8   1604.6
1797.9
Public M&WT loans                                                                                Interest on Public Debt          20.6      56.8      65.0  1/      84.0  1/
IBRD                                     1-            -         20.0          2.0             Repayments on Public Debt        37.9      75.2    119.0  V/    141.q  11
IDA                                     35.0         60.0        13.0         25.0             Total Public Debt Service        79.1    132.0    184.0           225.0
uther                                     -          35.5        69.5          5.8             Other Debt Service (net)           -         -         -             -
Outer Multilateral                      81.0         30.8        50.9         29.7             Total Debt Service (net)         79.1    132.0    184.0  1/    225.0  1/
So-ernmenta                            176.0        166.7       318.9        366.2
Suppliers                               32.0        161.4        25.9         24.4           Burden on Export Earning4s (%)
Financial Institution                  397.0           -           -            -
Blndtas                                                                                        Public Debt Service              22.0      16.0      19.3          19.8
Pn.e..                                                                           Total Debt Service
Total Fublic W, In.i,an                  720.6        454.5       498.2        463.1TD+Dret  nvet. In.                            25.7      25.7      28.4           30.1
I7TERt D M                        Actual Debt Ottstading on Dy.                                  Average Terms of Public Debt
T180                                  54.2                       2 6                             Int. as % Prior Year DO&D          5.4      4.4       4.1            4.9
other I iAtilateral                   126.7                       6.1                            Amort, as % Prior Year DO&D   10.1          10.2      11.5          13.0
GOther lJtisteal213.4                                            10.4
Governmets                           84.-3                       40.7                          188D Debt Ont. & Disbursed
FlipnliealIsiuon                      286.7                      13.8                            "as 7. Public Debt 040            11.2       6.2       2.8           2.5
Financiai Institutions                548.3                      26.4                            " as r Public Debt Service        19.8       8.9       6.2           4.9
Public Debts n.e.i                                      - ~~-IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Total Public MUI Debt                2075.5                     00.0                                O as % Public Debt 06D          2.5       2.6       4.4           5.5
Other NLLT Debts                         -                                                        " as % Public Debt Service        0.5       0.2       0.8           1.2
Short-term  Debt (disb. onr)
not applicable                                    - nil or negligible
not available                  R/ These figure. correspond to a mission estimates (which visited Sudan in May 1978) of imports
...  not available separat*Ly                             under the nil value.
but Included in total                            bl Includes arrears on external payuents.
VJ F4iures refer to debt service paysnte actually due.
ARIL, 1979



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of March 31, 1979)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellations)
Credit No.      Year    Borrower   Purpose                    Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:                     127.2  12.4
Credit 122      1968    Sudan        Education I                      8.5       0.9
Credit 311      1972    Sudan        Mechanized Farming II           11.3       5.3
Credit 331      1972    Sudan        Highway I                        7.0       0.5
Credit 364      1973    Sudan        Rahad Irrigation                42.0       Nil
Credit 364-1   1975    Sudan         Rahad (Supplement)              20.0      15.0
Credit 447      1973    Sudan        Industrial Bank of
Sudan I                        4.0       0.2
Credit 457      1974    Sudan        Railways III                    24.0       5.1
Credit 476      1974    Sudan        Agricultural Reha-
bilitation Project            10.7 /2   2.4
Credit 547      1975    Sudan        Education II                    10.0       9.4
Credit 564      1975    Sudan        Power II                        23.0       2.3
Credit 589      1975    Sudan        Industrial Bank of
Sudan II                       7.0       4.0
Credit 614      1976    Sudan        Technical Assistance             4.0       3.2
Credit 643      1976    Sudan )                                       9.0       8.8
Loan 1287T      1976    Sudan )    Domestic Aviation           20.0    -       20.0
Credit 718      1977    Sudan        Savannah Development            17.0      17.0
Credit 727      1977    Sudan )                                       8.0       8.0
Loan 1467T      1977    Sudan )    Railway IV                  12.0    -       12.0
Credit 781      1978    Sudan        Port                            22.0      22.0
Credit 782 /3  1978    Sudan         Livestock Marketing             25.0      25.0
Credit 804 T7  1978    Sudan         Mechanized Farming III           16.0     16.0
Credit 834 /3  1978    Sudan         Agricultural Research           15.0      15.0
Credit 882 /3  1979    Sudan         Highway II                      41.0      41.0
Total                                                   159.2 336.9    233.1
of which repaid                                        74.6   6.6
Total now outstanding                                    84.6 330.6
Amount sold                                    5.8
of which repaid                             5.8          -
Total held by Bank & IDA /1                              84.6 330.6
Total Undisbursed                                        32.0 201.1    233.1
/1   Prior to exchange adjustments.
77   Includes grant participation by Norway $5.35 million, of which $.8
million is undisbursed.
/3   Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                   (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                  Obligor                           Loan   Equity   Total
1964 and     Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972         Textiles                                   1.9    0.3       2.2
1976        Cotton Textile Mills                         8.7    1.3      10.0
1977        Seleit Livestock                            11.2    1.1      12.3
1978        Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.              6.7    1.4       8.1
Total gross commitments                     28.5    4.1      32.6
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales:                    6.8      -       6.8
Total commitments now held by IFC           21.7    4.1      25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                    10.1    0.8      10.9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and twenty credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
Credit No. 122    First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24,
1968; Effective Date: January 4, 1969; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Implementation of the project is about five years behind the
original 1968 appraisal schedule. An additional six months (to June 30, 1979)
will be required to finalize work and fully disburse the credit proceeds.
Delays in project implementation are mainly due to: insufficient managerial
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
skill of the local civil works contractors, lack of adequate local financing,
shortage of construction materials and inadequate staff in the Project Imple-
mentation Units (PIUs). Furniture and equipment procurement as well as the
technical assistance component are all basically completed.
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is 15 to 20 months behind the original 1975 appraisal
schedule. The delay is due to the lack of a viable construction industry and
the weakness in project management. A plan of action is being developed to
improve physical execution. Close monitoring of the project is to continue.
Credit No. 311   Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since October 1977, the total number of farms allocated has remained
stable at about 245 (98% of appraisal estimate). The road construction
program has made little progress due in part to difficulties in getting
spare parts for MFC's heavy equipment. The building construction program is
also making slow progress due to an overall shortage of cement. Repayment of
loans by farmers remains unsatisfactory - below 60% and 15%, respectively at
both Sim Sim and Umm Seinat. Explanations given by management include adverse
climatic conditions and unwillingness by farmers to repay loans received.
Repayment at Habila is said to be satisfactory however, - more than 95%.
The Tozi Farm Machinery Training Center has made some progress. Management
is now concentrating on the water supply problem.
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62.0 million Credit of March 20,
and            1973 and June 30, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29,. 1973
364-1           and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The Rahad Irrigation Project commenced agricultural production in
1977 with cotton grown over 50,000 feddans (15% of the total project area of
300,000 fd). Cotton yields for the first year -- 2.5 metric tons per
hectare -- were already close to the appraisal estimate -- 2.7 t/ha -- for
full project development. In 1978, the irrigated and cultivated area was
extended to a total of about 127,000 fd (40% of total project area), short of
the planned target of 200,000 fd.  Further delays are expected in project
implementation; this may necessitate a reassessment of the project size or
the deferment of some non-essential project components. The cofinancing
agencies have agreed on a revised allocation of disbursements and the
Government has been asked to communicate its views on the financing gap.
Despite the current difficulties, the project remains sound and economically
justified.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 476   Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project;
US$10.7 million Credit of June 5, 1974; Effective Date:
September 6, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is making progress with construction of infrastructure
components. Most of the senior staff positions have been filled, almost
entirely with expatriates. The project continues to suffer from a shortage
of local counterparts for expatriates and supporting staff, especially for
administration and accounting. The implementation of several components of
the project has been delayed. Government services have been seriously
impaired by shortages of fuel and funds. The project's foodcrop development
component has made good progress, especially at the main crop station at Yei,
where crop trials have shown promising results and increased quantities of
improved seeds have been produced. The cotton spraying program has started
but the project suffered a major setback because the agency responsible for
purchasing cotton delayed purchase of the crop last season due to financial
problems and shortage of fuel. Sales of coffee seedlings have exceeded
targets. The road construction unit started later than expected and
progress has been slow.
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 million Credit
approved on May 31, 1977; Effective Date: August 31,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project was declared effective on August 31, 1978, about one
year later than scheduled. The project is being implemented by the newly
established Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC), which is also
responsible for the ODM/Abu Dhabi funded Southern Darfur Rural Development
Project, putting heavy demands on this organization and the poor infrastruc-
ture of this province. Delays in project start and unforeseen cost increases
in building construction will result in higher project costs than estimated,
requiring possible reductions in project scope and rephasing. Because of
the physical and financial constraints, WSDC has been requested to prepare
proposals to deal with these difficulties.
Credit No. 331   Highway Project; US$7.0 million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective Date: February 6, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Due to escalation of costs for equipment purchases and feasibility
studies, the project's scope had to be reduced to keep it within the original
credit amount. Major components of the project have been completed; progress
on the balance of the project and compliance with the covenants of the Credit
Agreement are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 457   Third Railway Project; US$24 million Credit of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: July 29, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
After some initial delays, procurement is now well underway for the
Railway and Sea Ports Corporations and essentially complete for the River
Transport Corporation. The arrival of 50 new diesel locomotives in 1975
enabled the railway to reverse temporarily the declining trend in its freight
traffic.  Traffic carried increased from 2,275 million ton-km in 1975 to
2,703 million ton-km in 1976 but dropped to 2,479 million ton-km in 1977.
The decline in goods traffic during 1977 resulted from the low availability
of locomtives partly due to a shortage of spare parts and lack of efficient
maintenance capability. Passenger traffic increased by 10.9% in 1977 in
terms of passenger-km. Progress towards the operational objectives for the
railway has been slow.
Loan No. 1467T   Fourth Railway Project; US$12.0 million Loan of July 8, 1977
and           and US$8.0 million Credit of July 8, 1977; Effective Date:
Credit No. 727   January 12, 1979.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Preparation of specifications and bidding documents is now in
progress. Co-financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund,
Abu Dhabi Fund, and European Developmeng Fund.
Loan No. 1287T   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20.0 million Loan of
July 9, 1976 and US$9.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976;
Credit No. 643   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The completion of design and the preparation of tender documents
have been delayed by the Borrower. Contracts for construction cannot be
anticipated prior to June 1979. Negotiations for bilateral financing regard-
ing the Southern Rgional airport in Juba have not been finalized.
Credit No. 447   Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:  US$4.0 million Credit
of December 14, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Credit No. 589   US$7.0 million Credit of November 11, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The first Credit 447 has been almost fully committed and disbursed.
Under the second Credit 589, US$4.6 million has been committed and US$2.9
million disbursed.
Credit No. 564   Second Power Project; US$23.0 million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective-Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Contracts for supply, erection and commissioning of generating
plant, transmission lines and ancillary equipment were placed mostly accord-
ing to the program, but delays in award of contracts for civil works at the
Burri diesel station, Roseires hydroelectric station and delayed mobilization
by PEWC's staff for civil works at the Juba diesel station are likely to



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
delay commissioning of the Project by about two years. The project cost
estimate is now 38% higher than at appraisal and the Government has received
a loan of about US$9.0 million from the OPEC Special Fund to help meet the
foreign exchange cost overrun. PEWC is proposing average increases of 98%
in electricity tariffs and 110% in water supply tariffs. The Government has
indicated that it will consider these proposals and take a decision soon.
In August 1978, the Government changed the composition of PEWC's board of
directors, removed PEWC's departmental managers from the board and replaced
them with the ministerial undersecretaries related to PEWC.
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project;  US$4.0 million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date; October 4, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, supported by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, is helping to
finance preparation studies of high priority projects to facilitate Sudan's
public investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established and
progress has been good.
Credit 781        Port Project:  U$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is designed to expand the capacity of the existing
berths in Port Sudan and will include mechanization of cargo handling and
movement, improvement of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of
bulk, container and roll on/roll off facilities. An advance of US$500,000
was approved from the Project Preparation Facility to enable SPC to engage
consultants for detailed tendering documentation to permit timely procurement
of both civil works and equipment. Cofinancing of this project has been pro-
vided by the UK, Germany and the Kuwait Fund.
Credit No. 782   Livestock Marketing Project:  US$25 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
With the objective of developing organized livestock marketing
country-wide, the Project provides market and transport infrastructure,
technical assistance, a headquarters building and additional staff for the
Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMM4C), which is implementing the
project. The leader of the Ministry of Overseas Development (ODM) technical
assistance team has taken up his duties and four additional team members are
expected to be in post shortly. The Director General of LMMC, was promoted to
Minister of State for Agriculture, and a successor has just been appointed.
LMMC has already taken over the operation of seven main livestock markets in
the Project area.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 804   The Third Mechanized Farming Project:  US$16 million
Credit of July 13, 1978; not yet effective; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
The project objectives are to (a) help present users of mechanized
farming met:hods to become more productive, and (b) support programs designed
to develop mechanized farming methods for smallholders. These objectives
will be pursued through improvement and expansion of the extension activities
of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), programs of adaptive trials and
related research, access road building, importation of spare parts for the
mechanized dryland farmers, and reorganization and strengthening of the MFC.
Credit No. 834   Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 million Credit of
July 27, 1978; not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and expand support services at
ARC's new Khartoum headquarters. The research program would be concerned
with integrated livestock and crop production systems; pure livestock produc-
tion systems and water and land use management. USAID is co-financing the
project.
Credit No. 882   Second Highway Project; US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project consists of (a) construction of a two-lane bituminous
surfaced road between Jebel Aulia and El Dulim (158 km) including a ferry
crossing and two ferries; (b) assistance in strengthening the Roads Devel-
opment of the Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport and
Roads; (c) consulting services for detailed engineering for (a) above and
for about 50 km of other roads.
Technical         Planning Assistance and Training:  US$1.8 million Credit;
Assistance        Effective Date:  July 1, 1977;  Termination Date:
December 30, 1980
This technical assistance project, funded by the UNDP and executed
by the Bank, provides the services of seven advisers to the Ministry of
National Planning to assist in national, sectoral and annual planning and
improved project identification and preparation. The advisers have encoun-
tered some difficulties in trying to introduce appropriate systems for annual
planning and monitoring, as required by their terms of reference, but have
become involved in the development of a provincial planning capability. The
project is making satisfactory progress.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
SUDAN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Ten months
(b) Preparation by: Government and Bank's Resident Mission
East Africa
(c) Initial Discussions with Association: March, 1977
(d) First Bank Mission: March, 1977
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: May, 1978
(f) Negotiations: March, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: August, 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) Special US$1.0 million revolving fund to be provided from Credit
proceeds and activated immediately upon Credit effectiveness to
help finance operating expenses for project development unit
(para. 36).
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government to confirm appointment of the new Director
General, Ministry of Agriculture as a condition of Credit
effectiveness (para. 39).
(b) An additional condition of Credit effectiveness would be
ratification by Government of the IFAD loan agreement
(para. 35).
(c) A condition of disbursement related to the livestock com-
ponent would be that Government agree with the Association
on a plan for establishing a livestock marketing organi-
zation (para. 47).






2'4^                        ~~~SUDAN                                                   \3't)                                    /)      . 
\                                      ~~~~~~~~~~Southern  Region                                                     1  .                   /     I          /
-12      CROP DISTRIBUTION, RAINFALL, AND ECOlOGICAL ZONES   'f    y/                                                                                        (
vs  R Rice          M  Maize                     Central rciinlands         Moir roads                  Averoage      i0?          
CAt K Kenat           C Cotton                     Flood region            -Other roctds      -JOO-  1931-1960 ,ZS ;                       
j TE Teo          CF Coffee                      I rotnstone plateau    - |Railways                   nilner'          >}  2  i)        |  
m e          cole OS Oil seeds     ,_XCentral hills                      Rivers -1J; e53,i!, 
CscPhremrnecst  S C Sugar cone  S        3Green belt          ---  Provincial boundaries <t  /./ /
\          ~~~~~TO Tobacco                 Southeostern plains  -.-International bounrJaries              .,,S.  :  ;           /       |/        t 
\Note: :onh.MmiltuncR ,HIM             _   Mountaiin slopes and hills            3K/1l                                            7:      /      A   
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hg FRICAlNt-tul_ areas X
A \L--':~~~~~~~~~~~~
v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      (T-1 
, , \\  (/ ~tlutymen LnX r9trsrarrroflrglrP;wtrE#//v; l iF S X = zf^\ M a1 110- tM n g 
C EN TRA2                                                              -      (/#rJA ltb- 2                    33            n e   {   G  A       



