CONFORMED COPY
IDA CREDIT NUMBER 904 SU
IFAD LOAN NUMBER      20 SU
Joint Project Agreement
(Southern Region Agriculture Project)
among
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 11, 1979
_ _____


﻿II
IDA CREDIT NUMBER 904 SU
IFAD LOAN NUMBER   20 SU
JOINT PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of May 11, 1979, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower), the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Fund).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement between the Bor-
rower and the Association of even date herewith, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower a development credit
in a principal amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million dollars ($15,000,000), for the purpose of assisting in
the financing of the agricultural development project described in
Schedule 1 of this Agreement;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement with the Borrower of even date
herewith, the Fund has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan, in
a principal amount equivalent to eleven million seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR11,700,000), for the same
purpose;
WHEREAS the Fund has appointed the Association as the Coop-
erating Institution to administer the Fund loan;
WHEREAS the parties hereto deem it to be in their mutual
interest that the allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds
of such credit and loan and the execution of the project to be
financed thereby, as well as other matters relating thereto, be
regulated as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Agreement shall have the
following meanings:
(a) "Association Credit Agreement" means the Development
Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association referred
to in the first recital to this Agreement, as from time to time
amended;


﻿ 2 -
(b) "Fund Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement between
the Borrower and the Fund referred to in the second    recital to
this Agreement, as from time to time amended;
(c)  "Association Credit" means the credit provided for in
the Association Credit Agreement;
(d) "Fund Loan" means the loan provided for in the Fund Loan
Agreement;
(e) "Credit Account" and "Loan Account" mean the respective
accounts established under the Association Credit Agreement and
the Fund Loan Agreement;
(f) "Project" means the project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(g) "Southern Region or Southern Region of the Sudan" means
the Southern Provinces of the Sudan, as defined in Section 2 (iii)
of the Borrower's Southern Provinces Regional Self Government Act,
1972", and in the "Reorganization of Provinces (Amendment) Act of
1976";
(0) "Southern Regional Government" means the regional
government established in the Borrower's Southern Region under
Article 8 of the Borrower's Constitution of 1973 and in accordance
with the Borrower's Southern Provinces Regional Self Government
Act, 1972;
(i) "Ministry" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources of the Southern Regional Government;
(j) "PFU" means the Project Formulation Unit to be estab-
lished pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
(k)  "PDU" means the Project Development Unit referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(1) "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(m) "First Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project)
between the Borrower and the Association, dated June 5, 1974.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Association Credit and Fund Loan
Section 2.01. Subject to the respective rights of suspension
and cancellation set forth in the Association Credit Agreement
and in the Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Association
Credit and of the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and the Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and with the allocation of the
proceeds of the Association Credit and Fund Loan set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such allocation may be modified
from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or
by further agreement among the parties to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw
from the Credit Account and from the Loan Account for expenditures
made (or, if the Association or the Fund shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Association Credit and the Fund Loan.
(b) The Borrower s,-all, for the purposes of the Project,
cause the Ministry to maintain Special Accounts in Juba and in
Nairobi in commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Disbursements from the Special Accounts
shall be made exclusively to finance the costs of goods and
services required to carry out the Project.
(c) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Accounts in Juba an initial amount in
the currency of the Borrower not exceeding $600,000 equivalent and
in Nairobi an initial amount not exceeding $400,000 equivalent,
and shall thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, further
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Accounts such amounts as shall be required to reimburse the Bor-
rower for payments made out of the Special Accounts for expendi-
tures for the L ject eligible for financing under the Association
Credit Agreemen., but only to the extent that the amount of any
such deposit, together with any amount already on deposit in the
Special Accounts as of the date of such, request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,000,000.
__________________4_______


﻿-4-
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect
of each payment out of the Special Accounts such documents and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that the payment was made on account of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Association Credit.
(e) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for any expendi-
ture not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Credit
Account; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association and prior to any further
deposit in the Special Accounts by the Association, deposit in the
Special Accounts an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(f) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (b) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Accounts shall be made
when the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals can be made under paragraph (a) of this Section or
when the total amount withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have
reached the equivalent of $14,000,000, whichever shall be sooner.
Withdrawal of the remaining amount of the Association Credit shall
follow procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section
2.02 of this Agreement, when the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Association Credit or the Fund Loan, the Bor-
rower shall deliver to the Association a written application in
such form and containing such statements and agreements as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for
withdrawal, with the necessary documentation, as hereinafter
provided shall, except as the Borrower, the Association and the
Fund shall otherwise agree, be made promptly in relation to
expenditures for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before
or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy
the Association that the Borrower is entitled to withdraw from the


﻿-5
Credit Account or the Loan Account the amount applied for and
that such amount is to be used only for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be identified as a request to withdraw funds from
the Credit Account or from the Loan Account, as the case may be.
Section 2.05. (a) When the Association shall have approved
an application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) subject to the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, if withdrawal is requested from the
Credit Account, pay the amount which the Borrower
is entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account to
or on the order of the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of the Association Credit Agreement;
or
(ii) if withdrawal is requested from the Loan Account,
promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Loan Account
in the aggregate amount specified in such notice
and that the amount to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account as set forth in such notice is eligible for
payment by the Fund.
(b) Upon receipt by the Fund of notice of the Association
pursuant to paragraph (a) (ii) above, the Fund shall, subject to
the rights of suspension and cancellation of the Fund Loan set
forth in the Fund Loan Agreement, pay the amount so to be with-
drawn from the Loan Account in the currency and to the payee
stated in the notice.
Section 2.06. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such terms
as shall be agreed between the Association and the Borrower, the
Association may enter into special commitments to pay amounts,
out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan, in respect of the cost of
goods required by the Project. Any such special commitment by
the Association shall, once it has been notified to the Fund,
constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to pay, notwith-
standing any subsequent suspension or cancellation of the Fund
Loan and in conformity with the foregoing Section 2.05, such
amount to be disbursed in fulfillment of such special commitment
as agreed pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Association Credit or of the
Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and agricultural practices, and shall provide to the Southern
Regional Government, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Ministry to establish
a project formulation unit (PFU) with such powers, functions and
staff as set forth in Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Ministry to expand and
maintain the Project Development Unit (PDU), established under the
First Credit Agreement, with such powers, functions and staff as
set forth in Part A of Schedule 4 to -.his Agreement. The PDU shall
be headed by a Project director, who shall have the rank of
director in the Ministry and whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association and the Fund.
(d) The Borrower shall cause to be established in the Minis-
try an executive committee under the chairmanship of the Director
General of the Ministry to be appointed pursuant to Section 4.07
of this Agreement. The committee shall be directly responsible to
the Minister and shall be responsible for supervising the imple-
mentation of all small-scale agricultural development projects in
the Southern Region. The committee shall include the Ministry's
Directors of Agriculture and Animal Resources, the Director of
the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the Director of
Cooperatives of the Ministry of Cooperatives, Trade and Supply of
the Southern Region, and the director of PDU.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ such technical assistants,
consultants and other experts, whose qualifications, experience


﻿-7-
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association and the Fund, as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association and the Fund.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Association Credit or
of the Fund Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance,any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association and the Fund shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Association Credit or of the Fund Loan
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association or
the Fund shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Association Credit and the Fund Loan,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's and the Fund's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Association Credit and the Fund Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association or the Fund
at regular intervals all such information as the Association or
the Fund shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Association Credit and of the
Fund Loan and the.goods and services financed out of any such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of. the Project, but in any
event not later than three months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-8-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower,
the Association and the Fund, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association and the Fund a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association or the Fund shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower, the Association and the Fund of their
respective obligations under the Association Credit Agreement, the
Fund Loan Agreement and the Joint Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Association Credit and of
the Fund Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) provide the Association and the
Fund, semi-annually during the Project implementation period, with
reports of such scope and in such detail as shall be acceptable to
the Association and the Fund on progress in carrying out the
Project; and (ii) provide the Association and the Fund during the
Project implementation period with annual reports on progress in
carrying out the Project, including comparison of actual achieve-
ments with the targets specified in the annual work plans to be
prepared pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. In order to expedite procurement of goods and
services required for the Project, the Borrower shall make or
cause to be made appropriate and timely arrangements satisfactory
to the Association and the Fund (including without limitation the
employment of experienced procurement staff) to strengthen the
Borrower's procurement office in Nairobi, and shall maintain a
radio link between the headquarters of PDU and said office and
yearly landing permits for chartered aircraft.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause PDU: (i) to prepare,
during the Project implementation period, annual work plans in
such detail as the Association or the Fund shall reasonably
request; (ii) to submit each such plan to the executive committee
referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement for approval;
and (iii) to furnish to the Association and the Fund for their
approval each such plan and any proposals for subsequent modifi-
cations thereto after the approval thereof by the executive
committee.


﻿Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) cause the Ministry to
grant credit to farmers under Parts E (ii) and I (iii) of the
Project through PDU on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association and the Fund including an amortization period of three
years and interest at the rate of nine per cent (9%) per annum on
amounts withdrawn and outstanding; and (b) upon the commencement
of operations of the Regional Cooperative Bank or the establish-
ment in Juba of a branh of the Agricultural Bank of the Sudan,
cause the Ministry to -rovide such credit to farmers through said
Banks under arrangements satisfactory to the Association and the
Fund and on the terms and conditions specified in paragraph (a) of
this Section.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause PDU to set the sale
price of the seeds to be provided under Part G of the Project
at levels which shall not be less than the cost of such seeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause PDU to retain, until one
year after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
and the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure
and shall enable the Association's and the Fund's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) cause PDU to maintain accounts
reflecting, separately, expenditures on account of the Project
financed out of the proceeds of each of the Association Credit,
the Fund Loan, the, ODM Grant and the GTZ Grant; (ii) cause said
accounts for each fiscal year to be audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Fund; (iii)
furnish to the Association and the Fund as soon as available, but


﻿- 10 -
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association or the Fund shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limi ation to the fore-
going, separate opinions by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Association Credit and the Fund Loan withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure have been used to make payments for
goods received, or works or services performed, and that such
goods, works and services were eligible for financing under this
Agreement and were used in the carrying out of the Project; and
(iv) furnish to the Association and the Fund such other informa-
tion concerning the aforementioned accounts and the audit thereof
as the Association or the Fund shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause PDU to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association and the Fund for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of
Cooperatives, Trade and Supply to provide technical advice to
PDU's extension staff with regard to future farmers' associations
and cooperatives.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Southern
Regional Government to prepare, jointly with the Borrower's
Livestock Meat Marketing Corporation, a plan for the organization
of livestock marketing in the Southern Region; (ii) furnish said
plan to the Association and the Fund for their approval; and (iii)
thereafter establish a marketing organization in accordance with
the approved plan to be responsible for supervising and coordinat-
ing livestock marketing in the Southern Region.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken,
not later than December 31, 1979, all action necessary to stan-
dardize the curricula, for certificate-level staff, of the Rumbek
Institute and the Yei Agricultural Training Tnstitute.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the Ministry to estab-
lish, not later than December 31, 1979, administrative guidelines
for upgrading certificate-level staff of PDU to fill diplomate
posts, and diplomates to fill graduate posts.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.07.   The Borrower shall cause the Ministry to
appoint an appropriately qualified and experienced person to fill
the position of Director General of the Ministry.
Section 4.08.  The Barrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, a study of the long-term implications of budgetary
allocations required for the carrying out of all on-going agricul-
tural projects, including the Project, in the Southern Region,
and shall furnish to the Association and the Fund the findings of
said study not later than June 30, 1980. The Borrower shall, after
reviewing these findings with the Association and the Fund,
formulate priorities for budgetary allocations for future agri-
cultural development projects in the Southern Region.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous
Section 5.01. (a) The Association is hereby appointed by
the Fund and accepts to act as the Cooperating Institution for
the administration of the Fund Loan, with the responsibilities
set forth in Article V of the General Conditions applicable to
Loau and Guarantee Agreements of the Fund. Accordingly, any action
required or permitted to be taken by the Fund under this Agree-
ment, other than actions by the Fund referred to in Section 2.05
hereof, shall be taken by the Association as the Cooperating
Institution on behalf of the Fund, except as otherwise agreed
between the Association and the Fund.
(b) The Association and the Fund shall cooperate fully
to ensure effective coordination of their respective actions
under the Association Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement
and the achievement of the purposes of the Association Credit and
the Fund Loan.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
and the Fund sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or
persons who will sign the applications provided for under Article
II of this Agreement or who will, on behalf of the Borrower, take
any other action or execute any other documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by the Borrower under this
Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.


﻿- 12 -
Section 5.03. The Minister of National Planning of the
Borrower or such person or persons as he shall designate in
writing are designated as the representative of the Borrower to
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as shall otherwise be agreed by
the parties hereto, this Agreement shall become effective on the
date upon which the Association Credit Agreement shall be declared
effective.
(b) If the Association Credit Agreement or Fund Loan Agree-
ment terminates for failure to become effective in accordance
with its terms, -this Agreement shall forthwith terminate and the
Association or the Fund, as the case may be, shall promptly notify
the other parties of such termination.
Section 5.05. This Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereto thereunder shall terminate on the earliest date
upon which both the Association Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan
Agreement shall have terminated or on a date fifteen years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 5.06. Upon termination of the Association Credit
Agreement or the Fund Loan Agreement only, the Association or the
Fund, as the case may be, shall promptly notify the other parties
hereto and, notwithstanding such notification this Agreement shall
continue to remain in force and effect, but only for the purpose
of implementation of the Association Credit Agreement or the Fund
Loan Agreement, as the case may be, and of orderly settlement of
matters of mutual interest to the parties hereunder, subject to
such modifications of this Agreement as shall be agreed among
the parties hereto or as shall be reasonably requested by the
Association or the Fund for such purposes.
Section 5.07. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made by any party under this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall have been delivered by hand or mail,
telegram, cable, radiogram or telex to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
specified below or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request:


﻿- 13 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of National Planning
P.O. Box 2029
Khartoum
Democratic Republic of the Sudan
-Cable Address:                    Telex:
EIMAR                              324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Fund: (except for matters within the responsibilities
of the Association as the Cooperating Institution for adminis-
tration of the Fund Loan, for which notice or requests will be
delivered to the Association):
International Fund for
Agricultural Development
Via del Serafico 107
00142 Rome
Cable Address:                    Telex:
IFAD                              614160 IFAD
Rome                               614162
Rome
Section 5.08. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original. All such coun-
terparts shall collectively be but one instrument.


﻿14                                              I
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America and in Rome, Italy, as of
the day and year first above written.
THE DEMORATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ Omar S. Eissa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT
By Is! A. Sudiary
Authorized Representative


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project forms a part of the Borrower's program for the
development of small-scale agriculture in the Southern Region cc
the Sudan. Its purpose is to strengthen agricultural services,
planning capacity and management for rural development programs
and to improve physical infrastructure in the Southern Region. The
Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Project Formulation Unit:
Establishment of a Project Formulation Unit and provi-
sion of mapping equipment, vehicles and books and
provision of experts' services therefor.
Part B:   Range Ecology Survey:.
Carrying out of a range ecology survey to determine
types and present use of rangeland.
Part C:   Project Development Unit:
Provision of experts' service to strengthen the Project
Development Unit and provision of consultants' services
to assist in establishing an accounting system for the
Project.
Part D:   Crop Development:
Carrying out of research and trials on improving maize,
groundnuts, sorghum, millet, cassava, sesame, pulses and
rice.
Part E:   Coffee Development:
(i)  Provision of an expert'S services to improve and
expand extension services for coffee development
to about 6,500 farmers; and
(ii) Provision of medium-term credit to farmers for the
purchase of coffee hullers.


﻿- 16 -
Part F:   Cotton Development:
Provision of an expert's services to expand cotton
extension services to about 10,000 farmers; carrying
out of spraying programs; provision of assistance to the
Equatoria Province Agricultural Production Corporation
through staff training and research support; and provi-
sion of incremental insecticides.
Part G:   Seed Production:
Provision of improved seed varieties consisting of about
600 tons of groundnut seeds and 550 tons each of maize
and sorghum seeds for further multiplication and dis-
tribution to about 4,000 farmers; and provision of an
expert's services to assist in expanding production of
improved seeds.
Part H:   Extension and Nutrition:
(i) Establishment of two extension units in Yei and
Halima/Wau;
(ii) Carrying out of nutrition surveys and of extension
programs; and
(iii) Provision of experts' services to assist in
development of extension and nutrition services.
Part I:   Crop Marketing, Credit and Input Supplies:
(i) Establishment of five cooperative marketing
and development teams.
(ii) Carrying out of a pilot crop marketing operation;
(iii) Provision of medium-term credit to farmers for the
purchas.e of maize and rice sheller and ox-drawn
equipment and provision of input supplies in the
form of hand tools and seeds; and
(iv) Provision of consultants' services to assist in
training of marketing staff and preparation of a
development plan for cooperative marketing.


﻿- 17 -
Part J:   Development Support Media:
Establishment of a development support media section in
the Rural Services Division of PDU to assist in crop,
livestock and nutrition extension services and in the
training of about 600 junior level employees of the
Ministry, provision of experts' services to assist in
the foregoing.
Part K:   Training and Staff Development:
(i) Provision of experts' services to assist in train-
ing of the staff of the Ministry in the Yei Agri-
cultural Training Institute;
(ii) Expansion of the facilities of the Agricultural
Training Centers at Yei to provide about 2,200
man/months of training; and
(iii) Provision of about 44 man/years of scholarships and
of short-term training courses to the staff of the
Ministry.
Part L:   Animal Health Program:
(i) Provision of an expert's services to assist the
Veterinary Service Department of the Ministry in
the procurement and distribution of drugs and
vaccines;
(ii) Provision of vaccines and drugs; and
(iii) Provision of teaching staff and operational support
for training of about 75 stockmen per annum at
the Stockman Training School at Malakal.
Part M:   Veterinary Laboratory Service and Cattle Disease Survey:
Provision of experts' services to the veterinary
laboratories at Juba, Wau and Malakal and the carrying
out of cattle disease surveys.
Part N:   Livestock Production:
Provision of experts' services to strengthen the
Livestock Production Center at Marial Bai;


﻿-II
- 18 -
(ii) Carrying out of studies of performance potential
of local livestock for meat production; and
(iii) Carrying out of a pilot dairy scheme to supply
low cost milk and milk products to urban centers.
Part 0:   Livestock Marketing:
(i) Carrying out of a pilot project for livestock
marketing;
(ii) Purchasing of a barge; and
(iii) Provision of experts' and consultants' services.
Part P:   Secondary and Feeder Road Construction:
(i) Rehabilitation and maintenance of about 560 km
of feeder roads;
(ii) Provision of experts' services; and
(iii) Provision of equipment for road rehabilitation and
maintenance.
Part Q:   (i) Provision of staff housing, chartered aircrafts,
vehicles, workshop equipment, spare parts and fuel;
(ii) Provision of a drilling rig to drill abo-ut 20
wells; and provision of equipment for the wells;
(iii) Construction of sheds, stores, workshops and other
necessary Project facilities; and
(iv) Provision of operational expenses for PDU's work-
shops.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 1983.
14


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Association Credit and of the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Association Credit and the
Fund Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Association Credit
and the Fund Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit
and Loan Allocated
Credit       Loan
Expressed   Expressed        % of
in Dollar    in SDR       Expenditures
Category             Equivalent Equivalent to be financed
(1) Vehicles and          1,400,000   1,950,000
equipment
(a) Directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) Locally                                  90% of local
procured                                expenditures
(2) Experts' and          4,000,000   2,184,000   100% of foreign
consultants'                                 expenditures
services
(3) Operating costs       3 000,000   3 900 000   100% of foreign
including local                              expenditures
salaries                                     and 78% of local
expenditures
(4) Civil works           1,000,000   1,092,000   100% of foreign
expenditures and
78% of local
expenditures
(5) Credit to farmers
(i) Coffee hullers        -         62,000
(a) Directly                            100% of foreign
imported                           expenditures


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the Credit
and Loan Allocated
Credit       Loan
Expressed   Expressed        % of
in Dollar    in SDR       Expenditures
Category             Equivalent Equivalent   to be financed
(b) Locally                             90% of local
procured                           expenditures
(ii) Maize shellers,       -        234,000
rice threshers
and ox-drawn
equipment
(a) Directly                            100% of foreign
imported                           expenditures
(b) Locally                             90% of local
procured                           expenditures
(6) Livestock marketing
(i) Vehicles and       600,000        -
equipment
(a) Directly                            100% of foreign
imported                           expenditures
(b) Locally                             90% of local
procured                           expenditures
(ii) Experts' and       700,000        -      100% of foreign
consultants'                            expenditures
services
equipment
(iii) Operating          700,000        -      100% of foreign
costs                                   expenditures
including                               and 78% of local
local                                   expenditures
salaries


﻿- 21 -
Amount of the Credit
and Loan Allocated
Credit      Loan
Expressed   Expressed       % of
in Dollar    in SDR      Expenditures
Category            Equivalent Equivalent to be financed
(7) Initial advance      1,000,000       -
under Section
2.02 (c)
(8) Unallocated          2,600,000   2,278,000
TOTAL          15,000,000 11,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and- the Fund that no
proceeds of the Association Credit or of the Fund Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Association
Credit or the Fund Loan decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(i) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or


﻿- 22 -
(ii) expenditures under Category 6 for Part (0) of the
Project, until the Borrower has furnished to the
Association and the Fund a plan satisfactory to the
Association and the Fund for the organization of live-
stock marketing in the Southern Region pursuant to the
provisions of Section 4.04 of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Associa-
tion Credit or the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Association Credit or
the Fund Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Association Credit or the
Fund Loan, as the case may be, which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in :his Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Association Credit or the Fund Loan and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association under the Association Credit
Agreement or the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Association Credit or of the Fund Loan,
as the case may be, as in the Association's or the Fund's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Association Credit or the Fund Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare or
cause to be prepared and forward to the Association as soon as
possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender or prequal-
ification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Orders for vehicles, equipment, machinery and pre-fabricated
houses shall be grouped to the extent possible.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 24 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for groups of vehicles, equipment, machinery and
prefabricated houses estimated to cost more than $25,000 but less
than $200,000 equivalent each may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised in the Sudan and its adjacent
countries in accordance with the Borrower's procedures.
2.   Contracts for the goods listed in paragraph B.1 above
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 each may be
procured by negotiated purchase after solicitation of at least
three quotations from suppliers, provided, however, that, except
as the Association and the Fund shall otherwise agree, the
aggregate cost of such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent
of $1,000,000.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for vehicles, equipment,
machinery and pre-fabricated houses estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 25 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in
respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
D.   Procurement without Contracting:
Civil works other than those for pre-fabricated houses shall
be carried by PDU's force account.
UI


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Development Unit; and
the Project Formulation Unit
Part A:   Project Development Unit
1.   General Responsibilities
The Project Development Unit shall have such responsibil-
ities and powers as may be necessary or incidental to the proper
execution and supervision of the Project and, in particular, the
responsibilities specified in respect of each of its divisions
referred to in paragraph 2 hereof.
2.   Divisions, Staffing and Functions
The Project Development Unit shall be headed by a project
director to be assisted by a deputy project director and two
assistant project directors; it shall consist of the following
divisions:
(a) A Crop Development Division: to he responsible for
the carrying out of applied crop research, seed selection and
multiplication and cotton and coffee development. The Division
shall be headed by a chief crop development officer who would
be assisted by a farm management specialist, two senior research
officers, an agronomist, a plant pathologist, an entomologist
a sorghum breeder, a coffee development officer, a senior cotton
officer and a seed production manager. A soil survey unit in
the Division shall be responsible for soil analysis.
(b) A Rural Services Division: to be responsible for small-
holder extension, ox training, nutrition, audiovisual media for
extension training and public relations, training and staff
development, crop marketing, cooperatives, credit and input
supply. The Division shall be headed by a chief extension officer
and shall operate through the extension units in the existing Yei
and Halima/Wau centers which would each be headed by a senior
extension officer.
(c) A Livestock Production Division: to be responsible for
all ranching and dairy activities and for livestock marketing.
The Division shall be headed by a chief livestock development
officer to be assisted by a ranch manager and a dairy manager.
R


﻿- 27 -
(d) A Veterinary Services Division: to be responsible for
the operations of the laboratories referred to under Part M of
the Project and for the carrying out of cattle disease surveys
to be carried out thereunder. The Division shall be headed by a
chief veterinary officer to be assisted by two veterinarians,
a pathologist, a microbiologist, a senior technologist, and a
laboratory technician.
(e) A Construction Services Division: to be responsible for
secondary and feeder road rehabilitation and. maintenance to be
carried out under Part P of the Project and for the construction
of the Project facilities referred to under Part Q of the Project.
The Division shall be headed by a chief civil works engineer
and shall consist of a building section to be headed by a build-
ing manager, a roads section to be headed by a roads engineer,
and a workshop section to be headed by a workshop manager.
(f) A Finance and Administration Division: to be responsible
for Project accounts and administrative matters and for the
procurement of the goods required for the Project. The Division
shall be headed by a financial controller to be assisted by a
chief accountant, an executive officer and a purchase and stores
controller.
3.   Appointment of the Staff; Scholarships
(a) Appointments of the deputy project director, the assis-
tant project directors, and the financial controller referred to
in paragraph 2 above and the heads of the divisions of PDU listed
in sub-paragraphs (a) through (e) of paragraph .2 above shall be
made after consultation with the Association and the Fund.
(b) Appointment of PDU staff in Grade 8 or higher grade
positions shall be made by the staff appointment committee of PDU.
(c) Selection of candidates for scholarships under Part K
(iii) of the Project from among PDU's staff or. prospective staff
shall be made by the staff appointment committee of PDU.
Part B:   Project Formulation Unit
1.   Responsibilities
The Project Formulation Unit shall.be responsible inter alia
for:
4i


﻿IFII
- 28 -
(a) formulating a small-scale agricultural development
program in the Southern Region;
(b) conducting baseline agro-economic surveys in selected
districts in the Southern Region;
(c) preparing district agricultural development plans; and
(d) monitoring and evaluating the project and coordinating
other small-scale agricultural development projects in the
Southern Region.
2.   Staff and Appointments of Staff
(a) The Project Formulation Unit shall be headed by a chief
planning adviser who shall be appointed in consultation with
the Association and the Fund and who shall be responsible to
the Director General of the Ministry for the discharge of the
responsibilities referred to under paragraph 1 above. In addition,
the chief planning adviser shall advise the Ministry's Deputy
Director of Planning on the Ministry's general planning activi-
ties.
(b) The staff of the Project Formulation Unit shall include
a crop production specialist/land use planner, a farm management
agronomist, a rural sociologist and two economists.


