Report No. PID5982
Project Name                     Georgia-Restructuring of the Transport...
Ministry Learning and Innovation Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Transportation
Project ID                       GEPE56514
Borrower                         Government of Georgia
Implementing Agency              TRRC
12 Kazbegi Avenue
Tbilissi 380060
Georgia
Tel:     (995 32) 99 04 61
Fax:     (995 32) 888 96 98 (ext 147)
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           December 16, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         March 15, 1998
Projected Approval Date          April 30, 1998
by RVP
Country and Sector Background
1.      Georgia is a country of 5.4 million people bounded by the Black
Sea, Russia, Azerbaidjan, Armenia and Turkey. At independence in
April 1991, it appeared to be among the best placed of the former
Soviet States to make a successful transition. It had highly
educated staff force, a long tradition of entrepreneurship, a
significant underground economy, a prosperous agricultural sector
and substantial natural resources. Its location made it a primary
transit corridor in the Caucasus. However two years of civil
conflict and an eroded government authority resulted in a collapsed
economy with high short term debt, low output, and hyperinflation.
In mid 1994, Georgia made a significant turnaround and embarked in a
stabilization program supported by the Bank and the IMF that reduced
inflation to less than 14 percent in 1996 and fiscal deficit to 5.5
percent per year and stimulated again the economy.
2.      Georgia's opportunities for growth largely depends on the
country's capacity to enhance Government revenues (9.4 percent of
GDP in 1996), integrate into international markets and attract
foreign investment. In this regard the recovery of trade in 1996
following the sharp decline of imports and exports in 1995, is
encouraging. Exports grew by 20 percent contributing to a
significant decline of the current account deficit to below 8
percent of GDP. Trade data although deficient, show significant
penetration into new markets : about 50 percent of exports are
toward non-FSU countries and among those, Turkey has become the most
important trade partner. Notwithstanding these accomplishments,
Georgia's economic recovery remains fragile.



3.      The severe deterioration of basic infrastructure (energy,
transport, water supply) represents a critical barrier to private
investment and growth. In Georgia, it is the result of a
combination of factors : the lack of investment and maintenance for
a number of years; and inefficient organizational and institutional
structure dominated and regulated by large monopolies, state-owned
enterprises/departments; and a very precarious financial situation
due to inadequate pricing policies and low collection payments. The
Government is aware that, due to the limited public resources,
alleviation of these infrastructure bottlenecks will require a
financial rehabilitation of private investments. A number of steps
have already been taken in this direction with tariffs increases and
the introduction of user charges, improvement in collection of
payments and some restructuring of the sector in view of subsequent
privatization. However, enforcement of payment discipline is not
yet fully achieved; the legal/regulatory framework for private
participation is not yet in place; and privatization is still at an
early stage.
Objective
4.      The project objectives would be to develop the capability and
capacity of the Ministry of Transport to implement efficiently the
transport sector reforms outlined in the Transport Sector Memorandum
(Report # 13978), and to increase the operational autonomy of the
Transport Agencies (State Departments). Progress towards these
objectives would be monitored by comparing the pace of reform with
the existing reform schedule, by conducting transport user surveys
and by ensuring that Transport Agencies become independent, have
their own income and capacity to borrow. This project will enable
the Georgian Government and the Bank to experiment Government
restructuring in Georgia with a small scale approach prior to its
broader application. The lessons learned from making transport
agencies operationally independent, selecting the staff in a clear
and transparent way, training the staff and retaining it within the
Government, may be applicable, if not directly replicable, in a wide
scale Civil Service Sector Reform.
Description
5.      The project would combine (a) restructuring of the Ministry of
Transport (MOT) and independence/commercial operations of Transport
Agencies (State Departments); and (b) support of the training
strategy for the sector to expose new MOT staff and Georgian
decision-makers to sector reform management.
a) Restructuring of the MOT and independence of Transport State
Agencies (US$1.5 million). The component would cover technical
services to : (i) reorganize the MOT and its staff around the new
functions needed in a market economy using the recommendations
prepared under the World Bank Transport Rehabilitation Project and
described in two reports entitled "Organizational Structure,
Personnel and Ministerial Action" and "Action Plan 1997"; (ii)
draft new statutes for transport State Agencies guaranteeing their
independent and commercial operations and increasing their
- 2-



accountability; (iii) determine proper information flows within the
transport sector; (iv) provide office technology to support the new
MOT organization for a period of five years; and (v) monitor the
process for two years. This would also include refurbishment of the
Ministry and provision of Information Technology.
b) Training of MOT staff and Georgian decision makers (US$0.7
million) would cover the training requirements outlined in the
"Development Strategy for the Transport Sector (March 1997)" and
would be performed by the Training Unit of the Transport Reform and
Rehabilitation Center (TRRC), which successfully provided training
to 120 persons under the Transport Rehabilitation Project. This
component would consist in training the newly recruited staff,
creating an information center gathering relevant publication on
worldwide experiences in transport restructuring, and in offering
study tours for higher level ministry officials to countries where
restructuring has been successful.
Financing
6.      Total project costs are estimated at US$2.5 million including
US$0.3 million of price and physical contingencies. An IDA Credit
would finance US$2.3 million of the estimated project cost and the
Ministry of Transport would provide US$200,000 to cover some local costs.
Implementation
7.      The TRRC, which acted as the PIU of the Transport
Rehabilitation Project would be reconducted as the PIU of this
project, given its excellent performance on the previous project.
The project team would be composed of a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), working groups within each involved agency or entity, and
Georgian and foreign experts. The preparation work would be managed
by the PIU. The PIU would coordinate the activities of the working
groups, hire consultants, contract services and purchase goods as
necessary for the preparation of the project.
8.      Consultant services would be procured in accordance with the
World Bank "Guidelines", dated January 1997, on the "Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers".
Sustainability
9.      Project sustainability would be directly linked to the quality
of the technical services provided by international consultants and
to the political/social acceptance of restructuring and increased
user charges corresponding to cost recovery levels. The Project
components have been designed primarily to achieve transport sector
sustainability thanks to enhanced policy formulation prepared at a
faster rate.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
10.     The Bank's first credit to Georgia was the Institution Building
Credit of US$10.1 million in 1994.   This was followed in 1995 by a
-3 -



Municipal Infrastructure Credit of US$18.0 million and a
Rehabilitation Credit of US$75.0 million. In Fiscal Year 1996, a
Transport Project of US$12.0 million, a SATAC of US$4.8 million and
a SAC of US$60.0 million were approved. In Fiscal Year 1997, a
Health Credit of US$14.0 million and an Agriculture Credit of
US$15.0 million were approved. In Fiscal Year 1998, a Municipal
Development and Decentralization Project of US$20.9 million and a
Social Investment Fund Project of US$20 million were approved.
During the first phase of assistance to the Transport Sector, the
impact of the Bank on the course and types of reforms has been
substantial and has helped establishing a fruitful policy dialogue
and building a good partnership with the Government. The
implementation of the Transport Rehabilitation Project has been very
successful and the project is close to completion less than two
years after becoming effective. Nevertheless, the extent and scope
of assistance provided remained limited in part due to resource
constraints. The serious deterioration of the basic infrastructure,
the stringent financial constraints faced by the Government, and the
need to undertake wide-ranging reforms to rebuild and transform the
Georgian economy mean that request for support largely exceeded what
the Bank was able to offer, leaving a substantial agenda for the
coming years. This project would be consistent with the Bank
Country Assistance Strategy (Report # 17000-GE para. 57) that
specifies that the Transport Sector would be considered for an early
use of adaptable lending instruments such as Learning and Innovation Loans.
Environmental Aspects
11.     The Project would be classified as Category C since it would
have no impact on the environment.
Program Objective Categories
12.     The project would contribute directly to environmentally
sustainable development of Georgia by accelerating the pace of
reform in the Transport Sector, enabling an increased participation
of the private sector in transport operations and the development of
public-private partnership in financing new infrastructure.
Contact Point:           Pedro N. Taborga, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-4312
Fax No.: (202) 522-3641
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 6, 1998.
- 4 -



