                                                                                       32556
                    UKRAINE-SecondProgrammaticAdjustment Loan
                                      (Loan No.4722-UA)
                   Release of the Second Tranche and Request for Waiver

                                  Tranche Release Document

 I.Recommendation

 1.      Ukraine (the Borrower) has met all but two conditions for release o f the second
 tranche o f the Second Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL-2). A waiver i s sought on the
 condition contained in paragraph 2 o f Schedule 3 o f the Loan Agreement: "The Borrower
 has continued to improve the payment discipline in the electricity and gas sector through the
 satisfactory implementation o f debt resolution, as evinced by: (i)the adoption by the
 Parliament (Verkhovna Rada) o f a comprehensive law on debt resolutioninthe energy sector;
 and (ii)the obligatory participation o f enterprises, inwhich the state has a controlling share,
 inthe debt resolution mechanism established by the said law." A partialwaiver is sought on
 the condition o f paragraph 6 (i) f Schedule 3 o f the Loan Agreement with regard to the
                                    o
 engaging o f the financial advisor for the privatization o f a group o f remaining state-owned
 Oblenergos (power-distribution companies) and the launching o f the corresponding
 privatization tender . These waivers are recommended on the grounds set forth inparagraphs
 20-21 o f this tranche release document. In view o f the performance in implementing the
 Program supported by the Loan, it is recommended to release its second tranche in the
 amount o f USD 172.5 million.

 11.Background

 2.     The Programmatic Adjustment Loan Program (PAL) was developed with the
 Government o f Ukraine in2001. PAL was envisaged as a series o f three loans totaling US$
 750 million in support o f the government's program o f institutional and structural reform. It
i s designed across five thematic areas: (a) financial discipline, (b) regulatory reform, (c)
protection o f property rights, (d) public sector accountability, and (e) management o f social
and environmental risks. The first PAL o f US$250 millionwas approved by the World Bank
Board o f Executive Directors in September 2001. It was disbursed in two tranches, o f
US$lSO just after Board approval, and a second tranche o f US$lOO on December 7, 2001
upon completion o f 2"d tranche benchmarks. PAL-1 included indicative benchmarks for the
proposed PAL-2 and PAL-3 operations.

3.      The PAL program was designedto disbursein sequence with completion o f concrete
achievements on the institutional and structural reform program o f the government.
Preparations for PAL-2 began in January 2002, and it was approved by the Board in
December 2003. A first tranche o f US$ 75 million was disbursed on December 19, 2003
basedupon completion o fthe pre-Board benchmarks.

4.      The Government and the Bank have completed negotiations on a proposed First
Development Policy Loan (DPL-1) program, which would carry forward the PAL agenda in
the context o fthe new government program.

 111.Recent Developments

 5.     Political Developments: The 2004 Presidential Elections represent significant
 political change. Mr. Viktor Yushchenko was elected President with a clear mandate to
 integrate Ukraine with Europe and fight corruption. H e has committed to undertake the
 necessary legal and political changes to improve the welfare o f Ukraine's citizens by
 establishing broad-based social and economic development.                    President Yushchenko's
 nominee to the post o f Prime Minister,
 Ms. Yulia Timoshenko, was confirmed                            Ukraine PovertyIncidence
 by the Verkhovna Rada on February 1,                  (percent of populationunderthe poverty line)
 2005. Her Government's program is
 designed to uphold this mandate by
 implementing the policy, institutional
 and structural reforms necessary to          30%
 bringit to fruition.
                                              25%

 6.     Economic          Developments:       20%
 During the PAL period, Ukraine
 improved its      macroeconomic      and     IS %

 fiscal framework      and experienced        10%
 strong economic growth and poverty                  1999        2000        2001      2002        2003
 reduction. In the years since the 1998          +                                       -+-
regional financial crisis, improvements                 Largecities          Smalltowns            Ruralarea

 in financial discipline,     fiscal and     ource' WB estimates,UkraineHBS

monetary policies, current account adjustment (supported by a weak real exchange rate),
regional growth trends, and improvements in the business climate have resulted in strong
GDP growth totaling 50% for the period 1999 through 2004. The highest growth measured
over this period occurred in 2004 when GDP growth o f 12.1 percent was spurred by further
improvements in the terms o f trade and pre-election fiscal expansion. High growth over the
post 1998 period led to significantly lower poverty incidence, which declined from over 30
percent in 1999-2001 to 19 percent in 2003, and i s expected to have fallen further in 2004.
However, a rural-urban divide remains, and some groups o f the population are especially
vulnerable, especially children inlarge families, the elderly and the disabled.

7.      The public debt to GDP ratio has declined. Primary fiscal surpluses o f 0-2 percent
GDP during 1999-2003 have helped to reduce the public and publicly guaranteed (PPG) debt
(incl. IMFcredit) ratio from 61 percent GDP in 1999 to 25 percent GDP in2004.

8.      During the last 5 years, Ukraine's current account has been in surplus, and the
National Bank o f Ukraine (NBU) has accumulated substantial foreign exchange reserves
which now exceed the value o f 4 months o f merchandise imports. Continuing recent trends,
strong external demand and improvements in the terms o f trade, in particular high world
prices for steel, resulted in a record current account surplus o f 10.4 percent o f GDP in 2004.
Untilrecently, the NBUmaintained a policy of defacto fixing o f the hrynia against the US
dollar at around 5.3 UAWUSD. In 2003-2004, the hryvnia depreciated inreal terms due to
higher inflation inRussia, and the Euro appreciation against the U S dollar.

9.      The resilience o f the macroeconomic fiamework was tested by the political crisis
during the presidential election. Households' loss o f confidence during the election process
resulted in exit from hryvnia holdings, resulting in pressure on the international reserves o f
the NBU, which declined by almost USD 3 billion. However, sound monetary policy and

 banking sector management during the political crisis, and the strong fundamentals outlined
  above, were sufficient to avoid a financial crisis.      The situation in the banking sector
  stabilized as soon as the political crisis was resolved, evinced by a recovery in reserves, the
  exchange rate, interest rates, and inter-bank liquidity.

  10.     The new authorities inherited unbalanced public finances. The 2005 State Budget
 Law, adopted inDecember 2004, envisioned a general government deficit o f 2.1% GDP. But
 this deficit figure did not account for all expenditures, including the legislated increase in
 minimum pensions to the level of the subsistence minimum which was enacted by the
 Cabinet of Ministers in September of 2004, and enacted through legislation in December
 2004. Simulations suggested that without adjustments, the deficit of the general government
 would infact have increased closer to 7 percent o f GDP.

  11.     A s a priority measure, the new Administration has revised the 2005 Budget through
 parliamentary approval on March 25, 2005, and reduced the targeted consolidated deficit to
 2.2 percent of GDP.         While President Yushchenko has made it clear that the new
 administration would keep the social promises legislated late last year, the Government has
 responded to the fiscal gap by enhancing revenue measures and containing expenditure
 growth. Revenue measures include: (a) eliminating most tax exemptions, (b) increasing
 excise taxes for fuel and alcohol, (c) charging higher rents for extractive industries, (d)
 significantly lowering import some tariffs, and (f) seeking to improve SOE management
 throughprofit incentives and associated higher profit transfers to the budget. There is also a
 broad effort to transfer shadow economic activity to the formal economy through better
 leadership and reduced corruption, especially within revenue authorities. On expenditures,
 the Government has taken early steps toward addressing the pension problem, including
 rebasing privileged pensions o n their real levels at the time of the 2003 pension reform, and
 indexing pensions only to CPI (not to CPI plus 20 percent of the nominal average wage
 increase inthe economy).

 12.     Early indications are positive in terms of tax revenue collections. Inthe first quarter
of 2005, the revenues o f consolidated (state and all local) budget grew, inreal terms, by 28
percent year-on-year, especially from increased VAT (up by 51percent year-on-year) and the
corporate profit tax (up by 34 percent year-on-year). However, the highnet VAT collections
data overstates progress; gross VAT collections were up by 28 percent only in real terms,
while VAT refunds declined by 14 percent. The State Tax Administration (STA) insists that
reductions in VAT refunds are due to technical and legal reasons, and the problem will be
addressed. The still substantial revenue increases may reflect a permanent reduction of the
shadow economy, particularly through changes in the management of Customs and the State
Tax Administration, or it may reflect a more temporary, risk averse behavior of tax
inspectors, customs officials and entrepreneurs, which will not be preserved without
improved technical administration to permanently stop corruption.

13.      In response to inflationary pressures, the Authorities have started to re-align the
exchange rate. On April 20, the NBU slowed its purchases of the net inflow of dollars,
allowing a one-off shift of the de facto peg to 5.05 hryvnia per U S dollar. This moderate
exchange rate realignment has helped establish the basis to move toward a floating rate inthe
context of the plan to move to inflation targeting. The exchange rate realignment will help to
reduce inflationary pressures through a number of channels: lowering prices o f imported
goods, reducing the current account surplus, and lowering the relative value inhryvnia of net
inflows o f foreign exchange. These factors will help reduce money supply growth while
reducing opportunities for currency speculation.

  14.     Policy coordination is improving. The Prime Minister has explained benefits o f the
 NBU's stance on revaluating the exchange rate, while noting the independence of the NBU.
 At parliamentary hearings after the exchange rate realignment, the Minister of Finance
  supported the move by the NBU. In April, the Minister of Finance managed to reduce the
 costs of debt service and helped the NBUto sterilize the money supply throughbuy-back of
 the government debt held by the NBU. The Letter o f Development Policy (LDP) dated
 November 12, 2003 recognizes the importance of macroeconomic stability (see Annex 1). It
 expresses the aim to strengthen the macroeconomic policy framework through adjustment o f
 monetary and exchange rate policies, impose more stringent budget restraints on consumption
 expenditures - especially unsustainable recurrent transfers,       eliminate uncertainty and
 excessive complexity in the tax system, and adopt clearer principles of government
 borrowing. The Government has indicated that it will take necessary corrective actions if
 macroeconomic stability is threatened.

  15.     The strengthened macroeconomic management is reflected in market optimism. The
 Ukrainian government has recently issued hryvnia-denominated Treasury bills with a
 maturity of one-year, yielding 4.5 percent. This represents a dramatic decline from T-bill
 rates one year ago, which exceeded 10 percent. The improved climate for government paper
 can be attributed to optimism for current and future economic prospects as well as
 perceptions of a substantial undervaluation of the currency. In May, Standard and Poor also
 upgraded Ukraine's sovereign credit rating from BB- to B+ reflecting, in good part, the
 improvements ineconomic management.

 16.     While the medium-term macro-policy agenda still needs to be more fully articulated,
 the new Government's active recognition of, and response to, the economic risks it inherited,
 and the well-established track record o f strong economic growth, and stable macroeconomic
 indicators over the recent past, indicate that the macro policy framework is adequate for the
 second tranche o f PAL-2 to proceed. To date, growth continues to be strong, debt i s low and
 falling, and foreign reserves are at record levels. The Government has targeted a halving of
 the inherited budget deficit as a proportion o f GDP. Fiscal performance throughthe first four
months of 2005 is already ahead of ambitious targets.         The authorities have introduced
measures to combat inflation,        liberalize the exchange rate, and strengthen overall
macroeconomic management.

 17.     The authorities have indicated a willingness to engage with the IMF. The 12-month
precautionary stand-by arrangement between the IMFand Ukraine expired inMarch 2005. A
review of precautionary stand-by was not completed.         In particular, the IMF noted pro-
cyclical amendments to the 2004 budget and weak legislation on connected lending in the
banking sector. The Authorities have signaled general interest in a successor precautionary
arrangement, but have not yet indicated a timefiame for discussion.

V. Progress under PAL-2

18.      A s was mentioned above, the PAL Program supports the Government's program of
structural and institutional reforms articulated around five thematic cross-cutting areas,
covering the following activities: (a) financial discipline; (b) regulatory framework; (c)
property rights; (d) public sector accountability, and (e) management of social and
environmental risks.

19.      Overall, progress in program implementation has been significant with many
important accomplishments, including improved financial discipline as evidenced by reduced

 budget, tax and inter-enterprise arrears, an improved regulatory framework in the financial
 sector, further advance towards creation o f conditions for Ukraine's accession to the WTO,
 particularly in areas o f technical regulation and intellectual property rights, a strengthened
 system o f budget execution and intergovernmental finance, establishment o f a legislative and
 institutional framework for pension reform, better targeted social assistance and improved
 quality o f social care. The Table below summarizes progress made under specific Board and
 second tranche release benchmarks, and thus represents a core sub-set o f overall progress
 achieved under the Letter o f Development Policy.



                                       PAL-2                                        Summary of Progress
                  First and Second Tranche Benchmarks
  Fiscal and FinancialDiscipline
    Reduction o f budget and tax arrears                                            Achieved
    Immediate reforms to improve financial discipline in the energy sector,
    through successful implementation o short-term plan, and adoption o f a         Achieved
    comprehensive long-term plans to bring the energycomplex to financial
    solvency and attract investment
    Improved payment discipline in energy sector through satisfactory debt
    resolution                                                                      Waiver proposed
  Regulatory Framework
    Improved legal and regulatory framework in critical sectors, including          Achieved
    agricultural and financial sector
    Progress toward WTO accession, including harmonization o f technical
    standards system with EUrequirements and development o f legal                  Achieved
    framework incorrespondence with the requirements o f TRIPS
  Property Rights
   Transformation o f ownership and organizational structure in agriculture
   through enactment o fthe law which forms legal basis for establishment o f a     Achieved
   unified system o f registrationo f legal rights to land and real estate within a
   single agency
   Further progress inmanagingnatural monopolies and encouraging private
   sector participation:
 (i)Engagingthe financial advisor for the privatization o f a group o f
 remaining state-owned Oblenergos and the launching o f privatization tender        Partial waiver proposed
 (ii)Continuedprogresstowardcompletionofanunqualifiedauditofthe
 consolidated financial statements o fNaftogaz for 2004, based on IFRS              Achieved
 Public Sector Efficiency and Accountability
 Adoption of a Development Concept for the System o f Internal Audit and
 Control according to EUstandards.                                                  Achieved
 Introduction o f more effective tax and revenue system through reduction o f
 sectorhndustry specific tax exemptions and privileges                              Achieved
 Managementof Social and EnvironmentalRisks
 Progress in establishment o f legislative, technical and institutional framework   Achieved
 for pension reform
 Improvedsystem o f targeted social assistance                                      Achieved
 Promote environmental compliance through a more efficient system o f
 environmentalregulation                                                            Achieved



20.     In addition to significant overall progress, the Borrower has surpassed the original
benchmarks of the PAL-2 in a number o f cases. These include, among the many areas of
continued progress, on cash collections ingas and electricity, progress on development o f EU
technical procedures and adoption o f voluntary product standards, enactment o f the

 legislative basis for a modern three pillar pension system, enactment o f good laws on
 mortgage and secured interest, establishment o f the institutional and enforcement basis to
 combat money laundering and financing of terrorists, measures to improve customs
 procedures, establishment o f a communications regulator, and dramatic reduction o f tax
 exemptions, from an already low base. Specific to the second tranche benchmarks, all legal
 conditions have been completed with the exception o f condition set forth in paragraph 2,
 Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement regarding enactment by the Verkhovna Rada o f a
 comprehensive law on debt restructuring in the energy sector, and partially on para 6 (i),
 Schedule 3 o f the Loan Agreement with regard to engaging o f the financial advisor for the
 privatization o f a group o f remaining state-owned Oblenergos (power-distribution
 companies) and the launching o f the corresponding privatization tender . The waivers are
 recommended on the basis o fthe following reasoning.

 21.     The Government has confirmed that it is committed to continuing energy sector
 reforms, and supported by PAL-2, has developed anAction Planfor Financial Recovery of
 the Fuel and Energy Sector. This plan was approved by the Cabinet o f Ministers on May
 28, 2005 and published inthe national standard. The plan calls for continued improvements
 in cash collections of energy services, reduction of cross-subsidization of tariffs, bringing
 tariffs to full cost recovery levels (including investment needs), better management o f
remaining state-owned companies in the sector, strategic industrial re-organization, and
various options for additional private participation inthe sector. The plan forms a basis for a
 strategic program to be developed for the overall energy sector. At the same time, the
Borrower has requested a waiver on two related steps agreed underthe PAL-2: (a) passage of
a comprehensive debt restructuring law inthe energy sector, and (b) launching o f a tender for
privatization o f a group o f power companies. A concept and draft law for debt restructuring
has been prepared under the PAL-2 program, and i s under consideration o f the Fuel and
Energy Committee in the Verkhovna Rada, where it has been approved for the second
reading.     While the new Government supports the goals and principles o f the debt
restructuring concept, it i s reviewing the structure o f the workout and write-off mechanisms
as envisaged inthe draft law. The Government has expressedits concerns about passageo f a
law, which will include debt write-offs for non-technical losses o fthe past, while allowing for
partial payment o f those losses with a tariff increase to consumers, inthe run-upto the March
2006 parliamentary election. Debt restructuring i s crucial prior to privatization, since the
power companies in question have large debt overhang. Inthe context o f the Government's
concerns about the non-transparency o f past privatizations in Ukraine, it plans to move
forward on power privatization not earlier than the latter half o f 2006, after the debt
restructuring law i s passed and under implementation, and in light o f a new privatization
program with a clearer focus on the transparency and quality o f privatization o f large state
owned companies.

22.     It is proposed to proceed with the PAL-2 second tranche of US$172.5 million inthe
context o f a new agreement on the proposed Development Policy Loan for Ukraine inwhich
the energy sector objectives o fthe PAL program would be subsumed and achieved.

23.     Detailed description o f actions that have been taken to fulfill the second tranche legal
conditions i s given inthe next section.

 VI. Status ofRelease Conditions of the 2"dTranche

 FinancialDiscidine

 Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraph 1. The Borrower has reduced the
 accumulation of arrears to the budget, by: (i)maintaininga no net increase in active tax
 arrears, without the use of tax amnesties, by the non-energy enterprise sector since
 January 1,2002, andby the energy enterprisesector since January 1,2003; (ii)carrying
 out a satisfactory implementation of the Short-term Action Plan; and (iii)adopting,
 throughits Cabinetof Ministersand, thereafter, publishinginthe officialgazette of the
 Cabinetof Ministers(Uriudovy Courier),the Comprehensive Action Plan.

 (i)This conditionhasbeenmet.AccordingtotheGovernment's official data, activetax
      arrears' without the use o f tax amnesties, decreased from 0.9 percent GDP (UAH 1,916
      million) as o f January 1, 2002 to 0.3 percent GDP (UAH 1,250 million) as o f April 1,
      2005 for the non-energy enterprises. Tax arrears o f enterprises inthe energy sector, also
      without the use o f tax amnesties, decreased from 3.5 percent GDP (UAH 7,941 million)
      as o f January 1,2003, to 2.2 percent GDP (UAH 8,082 million) as o f May 1,2005'.
 (ii) conditionhasbeenmet.IthasbeenagreedintheMinutesofNegotiationsthatthe
      This
      short term action plan to improve financial discipline inthe energy sector should include
      the following points that will be implemented as triggers o f second tranche release o f
      PAL 11: (a) submission to the Verkhovna Rada o f the draft Law on Charging Penalties
      for Untimely Payment for Consumed Electricity, Gas and Communal Service, (b) local
     Governments legally obliged to compensate municipal companies for setting loss making
     municipal services tariffs, (c) an emergency reserve list o f potentially environmentally
     hazardous enterprises, including the protected volume o f electricity, i s approved by the
     Cabinet of Ministers (CoM) and financing sources are identified for each o f these
     enterprises, (d) procedures for compensating consumers o f low quality or below billed
     provision o f heating and water services are developed and made effective and (e)
     electricity payment and/or tariff privileges for individual business entities andlor sectors
     are prohibited with the exception o f the tariff level for the communal service companies.

a) This sub-condition has been met. The law introducing the provision on charges for
     untimely payment for consumed electricity, gas and communal services has been
     submitted to the Verkhovna Rada and adopted on June 24,2004.

b) This sub-condition has beenmet. Article 191ofthe Economic Code that came into force
     on January 1, 2004, and article 31 o f the Law o f Ukraine "On Housing and Communal
     Services", No. 1875-IV, that came into effect in January 2005, require local executive
     authorities and local self-governments to compensate communal enterprises for the
     difference between established (fixed) tariffs and actual, economically justified costs, for
     services. Additionally, as a legislative harmonization step, the CoM submitted to the

 Active tax arrears are defined as tax arrears excluding, (a) penalties, fines and sanctions, (b) arrears of
enterprises on which bankruptcyproceedings have been instituted and moratorium on collection by tax
authorities has been imposed, (c) arrears o f enterprises o f a fictitious nature, andor (d) against whose managers
o f which criminal proceedings have been instituted.
 Actual energy sector arrears as o f May 1, 2005, were UAH 8,082 million as compared to UAH7,941 million,
as of January 1, 2003. The difference o f UAH 141 million is marginal, relative to the margin o f error of the
official and best available data source, as a percentage o f GDP (0.04 percent GDP), and relative to monthly
energy sector tax payments (10% o f average monthly payments so far in2005). The level innominal UAH
represents the progress envisionedbythe benchmark as a ratio to GDP.

     Verkhovna Rada a draft law on Amendments to the Law on Prices and Pricing, which
     would bringthe latter inconformity with the Economic Code.

 c) This sub-condition has been met. A resolution o f the Cabinet o f Ministers providing for
     creation o f an emergency reserve list o fpotentially environmentally hazardous enterprises
     was adopted on December 26, 2003. This resolution creates a system by which harder
     budget constraints can be imposed on enterprises, which if shut down because o f energy
     nonpayment, would create environmental hazard.             The emergency reserve allows
     corrective action to be taken during a period covered by the reserve fund. In addition,
     Budget Law 2004 allocated UAH 37.0 million from the special fund o f the State Budget
     to the Ministry for Emergency Situations to finance electricity reserve for enterprises in
     the emergency reserve list. This provisionhasbeen extended to the 2005 Budget Law.

 d) This sub-condition has beenmet. Procedures for compensating consumers for low quality
     or below billed provision o f heating and water services have been establishedby the CoM
     Resolution dated December 30, 1997. In May 2004, the State Housing Committee
     developed a new version o f the Procedures in compliance with the Law on Housing and
     Communal Services. These draft Procedures were agreed with the Bank, considered at
    the Government committee and approved at the meeting o f the Cabinet o f Ministers on
    January 19,2005.

 e) This sub-condition has been met. By the beginningo f 2004, all privilegedtariffs hadbeen
    eliminated with the exception o f OJSC Zaporizhzhya Aluminum Plant and Zaporizhzhya
    Titanium and Magnesium Plant. These privileges were eliminated by CoM Resolution
    dated February 23,2005.

(iii) conditionhasbeenmet.A satisfactory actionplanhasbeenpreparedbythe
      This
Government and inparticular the Ministry o f Fuel and Energy. This plan was prepared with
the help o f a consulting firm financed by the Verkhovna Rada, as well as local and
international consultants financed through a Japanese Grant (PHRD) in support o f the PAL
program. The plan i s well designed, comprehensive, reasonably sequenced, and already
under partial implementation, including improved electricity and gas cash collections, and
strengtheningof governance inthe sector. The plan has been agreed with the Bank, adopted
by the Government, and was published on May 28, 2005. As agreed with the Bank, it was
adopted by the Cabinet o f Ministers as a working plan, subject to change on a rolling basis
through the life of its implementation.

Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraph 2. The Borrower has continued to improve the
payment discipline in the electricity and gas sector through the satisfactory
implementation of debt resolution, as evidenced by: (i)the adoption by the Parliament
(Verkhovna Rada) of a comprehensive law on debt resolution in the energy sector; and
(ii)theobligatoryparticipationofenterprises,inwhichthestatehasacontrollingshare,
inthe debt resolution mechanism established by the said law.

This condition has not been met, and a waiver i s requested (see paragraphs 20-21 o f this
document). As was mentioned above, the Government has confirmed that it stays committed
to further reforms in energy sector, including adoption o f energy debt restructuring law and
subsequent launching o f the privatization tender.

 Regulatory Framework

 LoanAgreement, Schedule3, Paragraph3. The Borrowerhas improvedthe regulatory
 framework in the financial sector, by: (i)the satisfactory implementationof the agreed-
 upon schedule on phasing in of the Base1 Core Principles for connected lending; (ii)
 taking adequate actions to enforce the procedures to ensure all bank externalauditing
 i s compliant with the International Standards of Auditing or the application of the
 appropriatesanctions within the powers of the NBU in lieu thereof;(iii)the continued
 progress inthe satisfactoryimplementationof the Memorandumof Understanding;and
 (iv) the provisionof adequate fundingfor the continuedestablishmentof the SCRFSM.

 (i)Thisconditionhasbeenmet.Inlinewithagreementreachedduringtheloannegotiations,
     as elaborated in Attachment 10 o f the Minutes o f Negotiations, in May 2004 NBU
     submitted proposed amendments to the Law on Banks and Banking to the parliament o f
     Ukraine.3 These amendments have been agreed with Bank Staff, and upon enactment by
     the Verkhovna Rada, would establish the legal framework for improved corporate
     governance and transparency o f banks and their ownership structure, thus allowing
     improved compliance and enforcement by the NBU o f the Basil Core Requirement on
     connected lending. All o f the respective NBU regulations have also been prepared, in
     agreement with Bank Staff, relevant to implementation o f the revised banking law, as
     outlined in Annex 10 o f the Minutes o f Negotiations o f PAL-2.4 These regulations go
     into force as soon as the proposed amendments to the law on banks and banking are
     adopted by the Verkhovna Rada. A special working group inthe NBUcontinues to work
     with Bank Staff on further revisions o f NBU regulations to make them fully compliant
     with all Basil Core Requirements, and toward gradual introduction o f risk-based
     supervision. The National Bank has been regularly providing the World Bank with the
     status report on banks' compliance5 with prudential ratios reflecting the five, core Basil
     principles in focus o f PAL-2, and has applied respective sanctions to non-compliant
     banks within the competence and authority o fthe NBU.

(ii) conditionhasbeenmet.FollowingtheApril 18, 2003 letter oftheChamberof
     This
     Auditors of Ukraine announcing the requirement to auditors to use the International
     Standards o f Auditing (ISA) in their work, NBU has (i)                jointly with the Chamber o f
     Auditors agreed on the procedures for the registration o f bank auditors; (ii)             established
     the Auditing Committee under the auspices o f NBU with participation o f the
     representatives o f NBU (Banking supervision and accounting departments) and auditors
     (Chamber o f Auditors and certified auditors from the reputable Ukrainian audit firms);
     (iii)issued the revised requirements for annual external audit of banks' financial
     statements; and (iv) issued the Procedures for certification o f bank auditors by the above
     mentioned Auditing Committee. All the banks were required to produce annual external
     audit reports according to ISA for year end 2003 and further on. According to the
     established NBU procedures, banks are required to submit to NBU the draft auditing
     contract and the documents confirming audit firm's compliance with the NBU
    requirements. NBUhas a right to suspend or cancel the license o f an individual auditor,
    instruct a bank to appoint a new auditor or require from a bank to arrange a new audit o f
    financial statements should NBU find the previous audit report non-compliant with NBU


 This refers specifically to rows 1and 2 o fpart 2 ofAnnex 10. All points o f Part 1o fAnnex 10were
completed as prior actions for the Boardpresentation o f PAL-2.
 This refers specifically to rows 3 through 8 o f part 2 o f Annex 10.
 This refers specifically to row 8 o f part 2 o f Annex 10.

      requirements. During 2003-2004, NBU has certified or extended certificates for more
      than 60 individual auditors and suspended or temporarily deactivated licenses for 6
      auditors. Inaddition, NBUprepared and submitted to Parliament revisions to the L a w on
      Banks and Banking and L a w on Auditing that envision strengthening of NBUpowers in
      the area o f bank auditing as was agreed during the PAL 2 negotiations.

 (iii)This condition has been met. Since July 2003, the Savings Bank has been operating under
      requirements established through a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) co-signed by
      the National Bank of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance o f Ukraine and the Head of the
      Supervisory Board o f State Saving Bank. While operating under restrictions of the MoU,
      Savings Bank was obliged to undergo diagnostics of its IT systems, its lending portfolio
      and its internal risk controls.     In addition, it was required to develop a business plan
      acceptable to the signatories of the memorandum and develop a strategic plan for its
      restructuring.  Savings     Bank has successfully            carried out its obligations            and
      responsibilities under the MOU, although the signatories have not officially approved the
      Savings Bank's response to the MOU. The Savings Bank has adhered to the restrictions:
      inJuly 2004 it presented a three-year business plan satisfactory to the World Bank, and
      the diagnostics have been completed,           Under the restrictions the Savings Bank had a
      financially successful year in 2004, reaching 98 percent of its required NBU provisions
      for non-performing assets. It has also achieved its required level of regulatory capital
      with the exception of NBU single borrower and insider exposure. Under the proposed
      Development Policy Loan for Ukraine, a Memorandum of Development will be put in
      place which outlines an operational and strategic solution for Saving Bank.

(iv)This condition has been met. The L a w on State budget for 2004 and 2005 has provided
     UAH6.74 and 7.87 millionrespectively to finance the activities ofthe State Commission
      for Regulation o f Financial Services Markets. This fundingexceeds the amount provided
     to the Commission during its first year of operations, i.e. 2003. Although this level of
     funding is believed to be insufficient to cover the institutional development costs of the
     regulator (first of all in such areas as I T i M I S investment, training and adequate
     remuneration of staff), it is expected that the Government will undertake necessary steps
     to establish more conducive environment for enhancing the performance o f the regulatory
     agencies, including increased institutional independence, strengthened enforcement
     powers, larger funding and more adequate remuneration and personnel development
     system.

Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraph 4. The Borrower continues to make progress
towards its accession to the World Trade Organization, by: (i)the adoption, by its
Cabinet of Ministers, of eleven (11) technical proceduresbased on the New Approach;
(ii)the adoption, by its Cabinet of Ministers, of one thousand five hundred (1500)
technical standards; and (iii)the development of a legalframework in correspondence
withthe requirementsofTRIPS.

(i)Thisconditionhasbeenmet.Sixteenoutoftwenty-fivetechnicalproceduresbasedonthe
     EU"New Approa~h"were approvedby official orders of the State Standards Committee
                               ~
     and registered by the Ministry of Justice.             Previously, the authority to issue these
     technical procedures was limited to the Cabinet of Ministers. However, on December 26,
     2003, by Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 2022, this authority was


 "New Approach" refers to the regulatory strategy laid down inthe Resolution of 1985 of the Council of the
European Union regarding the new approach to technical harmonization and standardization

     delegated to the State Standards Committee. This clears the way for rapid preparation
     and adoption o f the remaining eight procedures.
(ii) conditionhasbeenmet.AsofFebruary21, 2005,2,241 technicalstandardswere
     This
     harmonized with international and European standards and adopted by the State
     StandardsCommittee of Ukraine.
(iii)This condition has been met as the Verkhovna Rada has adopted relevant laws in area o f
     intellectual property rights to bring Ukrainian legislation in minimum compliance with
     WTO TRIPS Agreement. On May 22, 2003, the Vekhovna Rada passed the Law "On
     Amendments to Some Legislative Acts o f Ukraine on Legal Protection o f Intellectual
     Property" No. 850-IV that entered into force on June 25, 2003. Also, Ukraine adopted a
     number of additional laws that create better framework for intellectual property owned by
     companies in WTO member countries.             These include the law on distribution of
     audiovisual works and phonogram samples (dated August 21, 2003) and a law on
     amendments to some laws on intellectual property (pertaining to copyright and related
     rights) of 3 July 2002 No. 1296. This law has entered into force on June 25, 2003.
     Finally, the new customs code, which contains provisions to enforce intellectual property
     rights at the border, came into force on January 1,2004.

Prouertv Rights

Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraph 5. The Borrower has transformed the
ownership and organizationalstructure inthe agriculture sector through the enactment
of a law which forms the legal basis for establishmentof a unified system of registration
for legal rightsto land and real estatewithin a single agency.

This condition has been met. The Law o f Ukraine "On State Registration o f Property Rights
to Real Estate and Their Limitations" No. 1952-IV o f July 1,2004 came into force on August
3, 2004. This law establishes the legal basis for creation o f a single registry for land and real
estate within a single agency.

Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraph 6. The Borrower has achieved further
progress in the transparent privatization of large energy enterprises, by: (i)engaging
the financial advisor for the privatization of a group of remaining state-owned
Obienergus and the launching of the corresponding privatization tender; and (ii)
continuing the progress towards the completion of an unqualified audit of the
consolidatedfinancial statements of Naftogaz for 2004 on the basis of the IFRS.

(i)Thisconditionhasnotbeenmet,andawaiverisrequested(seeparagraphs20-21ofthis
    document). As was mentioned above, that the Government has confirmed that it stays
    committed to further reforms in energy sector, including adoption o f energy debt
    restructuring law and subsequent launching o f the privatization tender.

(ii) conditionhasbeenmet. Naftogashasachievedconsiderableprogressincompletion
    This
    o f an unqualified audit o f the consolidated financial statements. BDO Balance-Audit has
    audited consolidated financial statements for 2001-2003. The required steps to make it
    possible for 2004 to be the first unqualified audit year for Naftogaz were taken, as agteed
    with the Bank.     In particular, an inventory was conducted with the participation of
    .auditors at the beginningand end o f 2004. Also, a stock taking o f the 100percent proven
    oil and gas reserves was conducted by the intemational appraisal company Miller &
    Lents. This was required in order for the "fair market value" o f Naftogas fixed assets to
    be assessed. This assessment was completed by Emst & Young. Also, as required by

      IFRS, the audited consolidated financial statements of Naftogas were made public (they
      are available on the company web-site). Moving forward, Ernst and Young has been
      selected to conduct an IFRS based audit o f the consolidated financial statements of
     Naftogas for 2004-2008.      Additionally, an agreement i s being concluded with the
      international appraiser Miller & Lents on making an assessment o f the oil and gas
     reserves for 2005.

 Public Sector Accountability

 Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraph 7. The Borrower has improved the use o f
 public resources through the implementation o f the CFAA Action Plan, by: (i)      adopting,
 through its Cabinet o f Ministers and, thereafter, publishing a white paper on internal
 financial control; (ii)establishing an external oversight body for the State Tax
 Administration; and (iii)    satisfactorily implementing KAZNA in all Oblast treasury
 offices for the state budget, including for twelve (12) which shall also handle the local
 budgets.

 (i)Thisconditionhasbeenmet.AConceptfor theDevelopmentof theSystemof Internal
     Financial Audit and Control to EU standards has been developed by the Government
     with support o f the World Bank. The text of this concept has been agreed with Bank
     Staff, and adopted by Cabinet o f Ministers on May 18,2005.

(ii) conditionhasbeenmet.IncompliancewithResolutionoftheCabinetofMinisters
     This
     No. 697 o f May 26, 2004, an external Oversight Panel was established to effect
     supervision over STA activity. The Oversight Panel reviewed progress under the State
     Tax Administration Modernization Project during a visit to Ukraine inApril 2005.

(iii)This condition has been met. KAZNA system (an automated treasury system established
     by the Borrower's State Treasury) has been extended to cover expenditures of all oblast
     treasury departments for the state budget, as well as o f all local budgets.

Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraph 8. The Borrower shall have introduced a more
effective tax and revenue system through the reduction, since January 1,2002, o f no less
than fifty-five percent (55%) of sectorhndustry specific tax exemptions and privileges,
as measured by the resultant increase inthe tax base.

This condition has been met. Recent Government efforts aimed at revision o f the system o f
privileged taxation allowed to substantially reduce existing tax expenditures. According to
the data provided by the Government, tax exemptions and privileges have been reduced over
2002-2004 by 80.3%.

