Report No. PID11302
Project Name             Ukraine-Second Programmatic Adjustment
Loan (PAL II)
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Institutional and governance issues in multiple
sectors:
Public Sector, Agriculture, Energy,
Privatization, Financial Sector, Social
Protection, Environment
Project ID               UAPE74972
Borrower                 Government of Ukraine
Implementing Agency     Ministry of Finance
12/2, M Hrushevskoho Str., Kyiv 01008
Tel. No.: (380) (44) 293-5363 / 226-
Fax: No.: (380) (4) 293-8243
Environment Category     C
Date This PID Prepared   May 3, 2002
Date Initial PID
Prepared                 May 3, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                     July 15, 2002
Projected Board Date     October,2002
Country Assistance Strategy
1.      The August 2000 CAS identified Ukraine's key development challenge as
the building up of legitimate, pro-development institutions that can deliver
on their responsibilities - especially by bridging the gap between formal
rules and informal behaviors. The adoption by the Verkhovna Rada of a
watershed reform program in April 2000, signaled the possibility of a lasting
change in the direction, quality and pace of Ukraine's transition. The 2000
CAS built upon this possibility and took note of lessons learned from the
weak performance of the previous CAS experience. In particular, it noted
that policy-based operations should concentrate on effective results on the
ground, that they should fully reflect government ownership and cover the
most critical systemic elements affecting the quality of public and private
institutions. It confirmed that the time frame for reforms should not be
driven by expectations, but rather by the counterpart's ability to implement
concrete achievements. It also stressed the importance of seeking greater
involvement of civil society in order to increase the demand for
accountability of public officials and exert pressure for the development of
well-functioning public institutions.
Programmatic Adjustment Program
2.      Under the above strategy, the Programmatic Adjustment Program (PAL) was
envisaged as the backbone of the Bank's financial assistance to the country
under the Base Case. PAL was designed as a three-year program of
approximately US$750 million in three operations (PAL I, PAL II and PAL III)
in support of concrete achievements on the ground in the implementation of
the Government's structural reform program. The program supported by the
loan is articulated around five thematic areas which cut across sectors and



are aimed at the development of an improved institutional framework. These
include: (a) financial discipline, (b) regulatory framework, (c) property
rights, (d) public sector accountability, and (e) management of social and
environmental risks.
3.      The First Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL I) was presented to the
Board of Directors on September 15, 2001. A first tranche of US$150 million
was disbursed directly upon completion of first tranche benchmarks and Board
approval, and an additional tranche of US$100 million was disbursed upon
completion of second-tranche benchmarks in December 2001.
The Proposed Loan
4.      The objective of the proposed Second Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL
II) is to continue and deepen the program of achievements in the five
thematic areas of the PAL program.
The five thematic areas are outlined in the following paragraphs:
Theme 1 - Fiscal and Financial Discipline
Issue: Lack of fiscal and financial discipline during the past decade led to
a large accumulation of fiscal and inter-enterprise arrears with negative
consequences on contract compliance and the overall business environment,
thus affecting the level of economic activity and employment, real incomes,
and timely payment of wages and pensions. Predictably, the social groups
most adversely affected by these developments include the elderly, the
underprivileged, and those reliant on incomes and transfers financed from the
budget, e.g., those most likely to be poor.
Medium-term vision: The Government's program in this area is to foster
financial discipline, correct the weaknesses that underlie present
macroeconomic imbalances, attract FDI and promote sustainable growth. More
specifically, the medium-term strategy gradually eliminates the non-payment
problem by substantially reducing the stock of accumulated arrears to levels
comparable to international and regional standards. The Government is
implementing this process by, (i) addressing budget and tax arrears, and (ii)
by focusing on the resolution of energy sector arrears as the nexus of the
inter-enterprise payment problem in the economy.
Theme 2 - Regulatory Reform
Issue: Ukraine has long been beset by a highly complex and non-transparent
regulatory environment, which has hampered growth, biased transactions and
provided a source of corruption. Many agencies (particularly at the local
level) are still entitled to "inspect" business and demand payments. The
weak and incomplete regulatory environment for natural monopolies,
particularly the energy sector, has led to poor operating practices,
deteriorating performance, and reduced operating capacity. The net effect of
such problems in the regulatory framework is that the systemic reorientation
of Ukraine's productive capacity is slowed and weakened while opportunities
for entry of new, and especially small and medium enterprises are stifled.
Addressing these issues is therefore a critical component of obtaining
sustained growth and poverty reduction.
Medium-term vision. The Government Program removes obstacles to the creation
and operation of businesses and provides clear rules of the game through
better and more independent regulators in critical sectors. In order to
achieve these objectives, efforts are focused on the following: (i)
facilitating entry and operation of business; (ii) facilitating accession to
WTO; (iii) strengthening corporate governance; and iv) improving regulatory
systems in key sectors (including telecom, energy and finance).
Theme 3 - Creating and Protecting Property Rights
Issue: Weakly defined and poorly protected property rights have affected
opportunities for individuals and businesses alike. Property rights are so
- 2 -



fundamental to an effective market economy that they influence every aspects
of a strategy to reduce poverty. Without clear and strongly enforced
property rights, opportunities for income-earning activities and investments
are inhibited, the power to enforce contracts is limited, and the security of
being able to retain the benefits of one's efforts is threatened. In
Ukraine, some important laws and supporting institutions necessary for stable
commerce are either still missing, provide an inappropriate legislative base,
or lack proper supporting institutions and enforcement.
Medium-term vision: The Government's program is to improve property rights
and develop institutions to protect them. This effort helps to increase the
confidence of domestic investors, increase the inflow of foreign investment,
bring strategic investors in key areas of the economy, achieve a definite
allocation of property rights in agriculture, and set clear and effective
rules to solve problems that arise when enterprises are no longer solvent or
liquid. The Government Program targets the following strategic areas for
improved ownership rights: (a) strengthening property rights in agriculture,
(b) supporting transparent privatization processes, and (c) utilizing
bankruptcy as a mechanism for facilitating the restructuring or closure of
ailing enterprises.
Theme 4 - Public Sector Accountability
Issue: Ukraine's fiscal management and public administration system was
designed to encompass almost every aspect of social and economic life in the
country. Significant progress has already been made in withdrawing direct
state intervention in favor of effective market institutions, and redirecting
state efforts towards providing basic social services and improving the
welfare of the poor. The Government's efforts to modernize its system of
fiduciary management and assure better use of public resources helps free up
critical resources for implementation of social assistance programs that
directly alleviate poverty and increase opportunity through better health and
education services. Equally, efforts to enhance accountability assumes
greater involvement of civil society and thus empowers the poor to voice
their concerns and participate in the design and delivery of the support
programs. Finally, efforts to reform public administration and modernize
civil service, while improving the revenue system, effectively scale down the
costs of the state and leave more resources available for private investment
and job creation, thereby benefiting the poor.
Medium-term vision: The Government's program improves the credibility of the
State and enhances the legitimacy of the institutional transformation
underway. It gives priority to improving the accountability of the public
sector with emphasis on, (a) more effective use of public funds secured
through the elimination of special privileges not justified on equity
grounds, and advancing transparent procurement practices, (b) introduction of
a modernized, efficient and transparent public revenue system, (c) clear
definition of the roles and responsibilities of the state at each level of
government, (d) an appropriate system of inter-governmental transfers to
match expenditures assignments, (e) improved public availability of
information, open budget process, and independent assurance of integrity,
including provisions for the involvement of civil society, (f) a leaner
public administration based on a clear definition of new roles of the Cabinet
and the individual ministries, and (g) advancing the reform of the civil
service.
Theme 5 - Management of Social and Environmental Risks
Issue. Ukraine inherited a very inefficient and overextended system of shared
provision of social services provided both by budgetary organizations and
large state-owned enterprises. Over the past ten years the human and
- 3-



physical capital stock of the system has continued to deteriorate as
professionals have had to leave the social sectors for more sustainable
livelihoods elsewhere, as obsolete enterprises turned unviable and as
budgetary resources were reduced with the decline in economic activity.
Also, in many cases self-preservation has meant de-facto shifting to
unofficial private payment mechanisms, which too often rules out access by
the poor to basic social services. Ukraine's inherited industrial base also
produces relatively high levels of pollution with negative externalities on
the health status of the population and on the environment. The Government
is committed to addressing these problems through a restructuring and
strengthening of the institutional framework for social protection, social
services and environmental management, within a financial and incentive
framework that is affordable within budgetary resources, accessible by the
poor, and which realigns incentives with the long term benefits of Ukraine.
Medium-term vision. The Government Program seeks to better manage social and
environmental risks. By the end of the program, the government plans to, (a)
reform the first PAYG pension pillar and develop a legislative and regulatory
framework for funded pillars already in operation, (b) provide a better
targeted and more efficient system of social assistance, (c) effectively
control public health risks, and start the implementation of new health and
education sector strategies, and (d) complete the institutional basis for a
viable environmental protection system and start implementing priority
environmental programs.
Contact Points:
Mr. Mark Davis, ECSPE
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-2330
Fax No.:         (202) 522-2751
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



