                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 35811

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (TF-50270 SCL-47220)

                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 250 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                       UKRAINE

                                        FOR A

                       SECOND PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                    December 28, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Europe and Central Asia

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2005)

                    Currency Unit = Hryvnia (UAH)
                        UAH 1.00 = US$ 0.187
                         US$ 1.00 = UAH 5.339

                          FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1    December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         -  Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA           Comprehensive Financial Accountability Assessment
CoM         -  Cabinet of Ministries
CPAR           Country Procurement Assessment Report
EBRD        -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFF         -  Extended Fund Facility
EU          -  European Union
FDI         -  Foreign Direct Investment
GDP         -  Gross Domestic Product
IEA            Inter-enterprise arrears
IFC         -  International Financial Corporation
IFI         -  International Financial Institutions
IMF         -  International Monetary Fund
MO             Mutual Offsets
NBU            National Bank of Ukraine
NGOs        -  Non-governmental organizations
PAL         -  Programmatic Adjustment Loan
PAG            Privatization Advisory Group
PFU            Pension Fund of Ukraine
PHRD           Policy and Human Resource Development
PREM           Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
SI             Strategic Investor
SME         -  Small and medium enterprises
SOE         -  State owned enterprises
TA          -  Technical Assistance
UAH         -  Ukrainian Hryvnia
USAID       -  US Agency for International Development
WTO    -       World Trade Organization

                   Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                Country Director       Paul Bermingham
                 Sector Manager        Asad Alam
  Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Mark S. Davis

                                          UKRAINE
                   SECOND PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. PAL Program At-a-Glance

Project ID: P074972                                                  Project Name: Programmatic Adjustment Loan 2
Team Leader: Mark S. Davis                                           TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 12, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Programmatic Adjustment Loan 2                           L/C/TF Number: TF-50270; SCL-47220
   Country/Department: UKRAINE                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (20%); General agriculture, fishing and
                            forestry sector (20%); General finance sector (20%); General energy sector (20%); General
                            public administration sector (20%)
                  Theme: Debt management and fiscal substainability (P); Regulation and competition policy (P);
                            Personal and property rights (P); Public expenditure, financial management and procurement
                            (P); Land administration and management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/13/2002                                     Effective:                           12/19/2003
     Appraisal: 05/01/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/09/2003                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE/MINISTRY OF FINANCE; GOVERNMENT
                                           OF UKRAINE/GOU
                      Other Partners:      Government of Netherlands, US Agency for International Development, UK
                                           Department for International Development, Swedish International Development
                                           Cooperation Agency, European Union TACIS, and Government of Japan

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Paul G. Bermingham                             Luca Barbone
Sector Manager:                 Cheryl W. Gray                                 Samuel K. E. Otoo
Team Leader at ICR:             Mark S. Davis                                  Dusan Vujovic
ICR Primary Author:             Sean O'Connell


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


   The objective of the Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) program was to support reform
   efforts of the government of Ukraine to lay the basis for accelerated and sustainable growth.
   To do this, the program was designed to address systemic institutional and structural issues,
   which were viewed as key limiting factors.

   For the past several years, PAL has been the foundation for policy dialogue and the backbone
   of the Bank's financial assistance to Ukraine. PAL-1 laid out the architecture and objectives of
   the program (including for PAL-2 and a proposed PAL-3), while PAL-2 focused on: (a)
   articulating and implementing the program objectives envisaged for PAL-2, and (b) identifying
   specific milestones and benchmarks for a proposed PAL-3.

   Following the change of government in early 2005, the Bank and the new administration took a
   decision not to proceed with the third operation (PAL-3) in favor of establishing a new
   programmatic series of Development Policy Loans which have continued and extended the
   structural reform agenda.      Indeed PAL-3 was effectively implemented as Ukraine's First
   Development Policy Loan (DPL-1). The Key Performance Indicators Matrix in Annex 1 maps
   these programs together showing that DPL is a natural extension of the PAL agenda.

   The objective of the PAL-2 program was sound and appropriate. It was designed to sustain
   the reform momentum gained during PAL-1, by helping to maintain the continuity of reforms
   despite the political cycle and resistance of the opposing interested groups.                   The PAL-2
   program objectives were articulated around five thematic areas: (i) fiscal and financial
   discipline, (ii) regulatory framework, (iii) property rights, (iv) public sector accountability, and
   (v) management of social and environmental risks. These objectives are summarized in more
   detail as follows:


   1) Fiscal and               Foster financial discipline, correct the weaknesses that underlie
   Financial Discipline        present macroeconomic imbalances, attract FDI, and promote
                               sustainable growth. A particular focus is gradually reducing the
                               inter-enterprise and budget nonpayment problem by substantially
                               reducing the stock of accumulated arrears.
   2) Improve the              Improve the business environment through a modern regulatory
   Regulatory Framework        framework conducive to growth of output and employment based on
                               FDI and domestic capital.          Remove barriers to entry / exit
                               (bankruptcy), create normal conditions for operating a business,
                               secure a level playing field and adhere to international governance
                               (accounting/audit) standards. Make visible progress in large-scale
                               privatization following transparent procedures, and achieve progress
                               in critical sectors (telecom, energy).
   3) Creating and              Secure the legal basis and full assignment of property rights to enable
   Protecting Property          proper definition of the role of the state and facilitate transactions.
   Rights
   4) Public Sector             Improve     public   sector   governance     through    enhanced     fiscal



                                                     - 2 -

   Accountability             transparency including: clear definition of roles and responsibilities of
                              the state, public availability of information, open budget process and
                              an independent assurance of integrity.
   5) Management of           Promote a more social inclusive Ukraine with strong civil
   Social and                 participation in government and well-targeted social support to the
   Environmental Risks        poor and vulnerable, while supporting better environmental protection
                              in Ukraine.


3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable

3.3 Original Components:
PAL-2 components were established through the medium-term framework of institutional and
structural reforms set out in the PAL-1, as a basis for the PAL program. The five thematic areas
of the PAL program were designed to address the key binding constraints to Ukraine's sustainable
economic development and poverty reduction. These themes correspond to the five objectives
outlined above.

   Fiscal and Financial Discipline. Lack of fiscal and financial discipline over the decade leading
   up to PAL-1, resulted in a large accumulation of fiscal and inter-enterprise arrears. These had
   negative consequences on contract compliance and the overall business environment.

   The Government's program in this area was to gradually eliminate the nonpayment problem by
   substantially reducing the stock of accumulated arrears to levels comparable to international
   and regional standards. In order to do this, the program focused on, (a) addressing arrears to
   and from the budget, and (b) the resolution of energy sector arrears as the nexus of the
   inter-enterprise payment problem in the economy.

   Regulatory Reform. Ukraine inherited a complex and non-transparent regulatory environment,
   which hampers growth, biases transactions and provides a source of corruption.                    Many
   agencies are entitled to "inspect" businesses and demand payments. Businesses experience
   confusion with quickly changing laws, regulations and procedures, selective law enforcement,
   and unpredictability of the tax regime. Volatility depends on both frequent changes in laws and
   on inconsistencies in their interpretation. Trade policies have not coincided with international
   standards, thus limiting export opportunities for Ukrainian producers while reducing consumer
   surplus of domestic citizens and businesses. Market institutions required for good corporate
   governance are in a fledgling state.

   The Government Program sought to remove obstacles to doing business and attract investment
   by providing clear rules of the game through better, more independent and more accountable
   regulatory systems. In particular, PAL-2 focused on the following: (a) facilitating entry,
   operation and exit of businesses; (b) facilitating accession to WTO and supporting reforms; (c)
   strengthening the system of corporate governance, accounting and auditing; and (d) improving
   regulatory systems in key sectors (especially finance, telecom and energy).

   Creating and Protecting Property Rights. Weakly defined and poorly protected property
   rights affect opportunities for individuals and businesses alike. In the absence of clear and
   strongly enforced property rights, the power to enforce contracts, and opportunities for



                                                  - 3 -

   income-earning activities and investments are hindered. In Ukraine, some important laws and
   supporting institutions necessary for stable commerce are either missing, provide an
   inappropriate legislative base, or lack proper supporting institutions and enforcement.

   The Government Program targeted the following strategic areas for improved ownership
   rights: (a) strengthening property rights in agriculture, (b) supporting a transparent
   privatization processes, (c) promoting privatization of key utilities (in energy and
   telecommunications), and (d) utilizing bankruptcy as a mechanism for facilitating the
   restructuring or closure of ailing enterprises.

   Public Sector Accountability. Ukraine's public administration system was integrally involved
   in almost every aspect of social and economic life in the country. In line with the shift to a
   market economy, the Government's intention was to streamline the system and improve its
   transparency.

   The Government's program gave priority to improving the accountability of the public sector
   with emphasis on, (a) improving transparency of procurement practices, (b) improving
   fiduciary management through more publicly available information, opening and streamlining
   the budget process, and providing for an independent assurance of integrity, (c) improving the
   structure and efficiency of the public revenue system, (d) modernizing the system of
   inter-governmental transfers, (e) clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the state at each
   level, and (f) advancing reform of the public administration and civil service.

   Management of Social and Environmental Risks. Ukraine inherited an inefficient and
   overextended system of shared provision of social services provided both by budgetary
   organizations and large state-owned enterprises. Also, Ukraine's inherited industrial base
   produces relatively high levels of pollution with negative externalities on the health status of the
   population and on the environment.

   The Government Program was seeking to better manage social and environmental risks
   through the following: (a) reforming the first PAYG pension pillar and developing a legislative
   and regulatory framework for the third pillar already in de facto operation, (b) providing a
   better targeted and more efficient system of social assistance, (c) effectively controlling public
   health risks, especially HIV and TB, (d) starting implementation of new health and education
   sector strategies, and (e) forming an institutional basis for a viable environmental protection
   system.

   A PAL Program At-a-Glance table is provided in Annex 8 and gives a snapshot of the
   benchmarks in each of the thematic areas and the progress achieved through the end of the
   PAL-2 period.

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable

3.5 Quality at Entry:
   The quality at entry is rated Highly Satisfactory.       The objectives of the operation were
   appropriate, and the loan program was well designed to achieve them.

   Design and scope. Overall, the quality of design of PAL-2 was high. PAL-2 benefited from
   the design of the PAL-1, which was also rated highly satisfactory. Together, the operations



                                                  - 4 -

created the basis for highly informed policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government
about changes needed to return Ukraine to a sustainable growth path. PAL-2 built on the key
irreversible achievements of prior reforms while deepening, refining and implementing
commitments made by the Government. It responded to the Government's priorities, and
addressed the critical needs of the country. In light of Ukraine's reducing debt levels and
access to international financial markets, the amount of financing of the loan was appropriate,
both helping to finance reforms and sending a supportive signal to market participants, both
domestic and foreign.

PAL-2 integrated the following design features leading to progress on the ground:

       l Thematic Approach. The thematic approach encouraged cooperation and
            knowledge transfer across sectors and contributed strongly to achieving outcomes.
            It also provided for coordinating implementation with sector agendas, and provided
            counterparts with the opportunity to introduce emerging development challenges
            into the program.

       l Multi-sectoral Government Working Group Enhances Ownership. This approach
            was particularly useful to track program progress and resolve issues.         PAL-2
            integrated five thematic working groups on each of the PAL themes. The working
            groups improved information flows across government agencies, provided a forum
            to design strategic decisions and monitor their implementation, and in so doing,
            often served as a catalyst for positive change.         Furthermore, this increased
            ownership to significant levels. The result has been the creation of strong technical
            counterpart teams which are committed to program implementation.               These
            working groups are still acting under the current DPL program.

       l Comprehensive Agenda. Bringing together the key thematic issues in a
            comprehensive setting facilitated understanding of important economic and
            structural linkages and tradeoffs, and the development of the capacity for
            priority-setting. Through a cross-cutting and broad institutional agenda, the
            elimination of binding constraints in some areas of the program created pressure for
            elimination of other related binding constraints highlighted by the program. The
            working group process contributed to this dynamic because it enhanced
            communication across the government and helped to indicate where problems
            needed to be solved.

The design of the overall program was informed by the 1999 Country Economic
Memorandum, while the design of the PAL-2 operation was informed by work leading up to
the 2004 Country Economic Memorandum on the sources of growth. In turn, the objectives
and thematic design of the PAL program and PAL-2 operation were critical to the 2004
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).

The PAL-2 Program Document clearly described what had been achieved by Board
presentation, what was planned for the second tranche disbursement, and the agenda and
actions for a proposed PAL-3. It also kept track of how the evolving program differed from
the original design at the time of PAL-1 (See Annex 7: PAL-2 Program Document,
"Comparison Table of the PAL-1 Indicative Benchmarks for PAL-2 and Achievements of Prior



                                              - 5 -

Actions for Board"). All operational prerequisites were met and were determined in such
complex matters such as budget, inter-governmental financial operations, and financial
accounting practices, before Board presentation.

PAL-2 was outcome oriented to the degree possible. In addition to the benchmarks, a set of
additional outcomes were integrated into the policy matrix and monitored through
implementation of the program. While the objectives of the program remained central, PAL-2
also built in flexibility to innovate as needed to achieve them. The PAL-2 Program Document
included the table, which compared the original benchmarks with the adapted ones, negotiated
on the PAL-2. These changes were then justified.

One possible criticism of the PAL program, and the PAL-2 operation in particular, was that the
coverage may have been too broad, and the level of detail within individual components too
specific. This program was indeed a challenge to supervise, but the design addressed the
environment, and was consistent with what was envisaged in the PAL-1 Program Document.

PAL-2 was implemented during a particularly challenging political period accompanied by
rapid governments changes. Thus the PAL program was envisaged and set in motion under the
leadership of Prime Minister Yushchenko. However, before PAL-1 was approved by the
World Bank Board of Executive Directors in late 2001, Mr. Yushchenko's government
stepped down and was replaced by sequential governments ­ of Mr. Kinakh from May 2001 to
November 2002, and Mr. Yanukovich during the period leading up to the controversial
presidential elections of December 2004. After the election that was followed by government
of Mrs. Timoshenko from February 2005 to September 2005. The current government is led
by Mr. Yekhanurov.

While governments shared and worked toward the program objectives, their approaches
differed significantly with respect to the role of the state in the economic development process,
the importance of corporate governance and transparency to growth, the position of
government relative to large financial industrial groups, foreign policy (which clearly plays a
major role in Ukraine's trade relations and attraction of foreign direct investment) and methods
of public administration.

By encompassing the breadth of Ukraine's development challenges, the PAL program helped
to provide a strategic focal point and coordination mechanism through four successive
governments, and helped to create both internal and external confidence in Ukraine's
development program during these political transitions. In particular, PAL-2 proved to be a
crucial tool for maintaining the direction and implementation of reforms.       The program not
only avoided major slippages, but made significant progress and helped create an environment
in which economic outcomes were exceptionally strong.

Client Orientation. The PAL program had initiated a joint Bank/Government of Ukraine
working group process which was continued for the design and implementation of PAL-2.
Five working groups, corresponding to each thematic area and constituting civil servants from
across the administration, met regularly. These meetings were jointly chaired by the Deputy
Minister of Economy and the World Bank PAL Team Leader.

The Ministry of Economy developed a PAL status matrix, which became the core monitoring
document of the program. The World Bank was able to comment on this document, both in


                                              - 6 -

writing and through the working group meetings. The working group meetings were a forum
through which assistance was planned, problems were discussed and solved, and strategy
moving forward worked out. This architecture contributed to highly efficient dialogue between
the Bank and the government and led to stronger ownership and understanding on both sides of
the table about the nature of the problems and their solutions, despite an often politically
complex environment.

The cross-agency communication through the working group process proved to be crucial to
unwinding bureaucratic blockages for institutional reforms.         It also helped to generate
consensus across the Government for agreed actions and helped to ensure that the spirit and
letter of development policy was broadly implemented.

The concepts of benchmarks (outcome-oriented conditions in the legal agreement) and
milestones (action and/or process oriented measures which were not legal conditions) proved
to be an effective way to: (a) communicate the difference between actions and outcomes; (b)
keep track and focus on key measures outside of the legal agreement; and (c) build ownership
by counterparts for achieving highlighted steps and outcomes in their areas. This design also
proved useful for establishing the mentioned above status matrix, which tracked a range of
commitments in the letter of development policy, many of which where milestones and
benchmarks in the policy matrix.

Coordination with the IMF. PAL-2 was implemented in close dialogue with the IMF at all
stages. Coordination focused on economic monitoring, tax reform (especially reduction of
VAT arrears and elimination of tax exemptions), calculation and reduction of quasi-fiscal
deficits, (in particular vis-à-vis the energy sector), financial sector policy and regulation,
pension reform, overall fiscal policy and fiduciary management.

In October 2003, just prior to PAL-2 Board approval, there were some delays in the
conclusion of a proposed IMF Precautionary Standby Arrangement with the authorities. While
the IMF noted the economy's strong performance and felt that the draft 2004 Budget was
appropriate, there had not been sufficient progress in the view of the Fund on eliminating VAT
exemptions and refund arrears. On tax exemptions, the World Bank had agreed on an earlier
target which the Fund sought to surpass. Eventually during the PAL-2 implementation period,
the IMF's extended tax exemption targets were met.

On VAT refund arrears, the Bank stressed the need to address underlying implementation
problems, while the Fund stressed governance problems. Prior to submission of the PAL-2
package to the Board, the government did agree on a parallel schedule for reducing the arrears,
which was ultimately adhered to during PAL-2 implementation.

Coordination with other Donors.         Technical assistance from donors was a key element
supporting the government's program and PAL-2 implementation. PAL-2 provided a useful
framework for integrating and prioritizing donor technical assistance and making it more
effective.

The Program's three-year time horizon permitted donors to align their assistance with the
emerging priorities. Significant trust fund resources contributed to PAL-2 implementation. In
particular, a Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) Grant in the amount of
US$446,200 from the Japanese Government was provided in support of all five thematic areas.


                                              - 7 -

   A free standing Grant from the Government of the Netherlands in the amount of US$2,640,000
   (equivalent) was extended in support of the PAL program to focus on three specific areas: (a)
   implementation of the CFAA Action Plan, (b) implementation of the Country Procurement
   Assessment Report (CPAR) Action Plan, and (c) preparation assistance for the WTO accession
   process. Other technical assistance was coordinated with PAL-2 primarily through the periodic
   budgeting process of Ukraine's active donors.

   The Bank helped donors identify the priority technical assistance needs by sharing the Program
   Document and the periodic status matrices. Where shortages of donor funds were found,
   meetings were held between the Ministry of Economy, working group members, donors, and
   the World Bank to align donor resources with the institutional development needs of the
   program. Donor coordination by the World Bank was carried out both through overall donor
   meetings, and through numerous bi-lateral interactions.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
   The overall outcome of the PAL-2 operation and the PAL program are rated as
   Satisfactory.

   Overall, the PAL program and PAL-2 operation helped to improve policy formulation and
   create a more systemic approach to its implementation in Ukraine. As a result, Ukraine now
   enjoys significantly improved public and private sector governance, and a more robust
   macro-economic environment supported first by resurgent economic growth, and improved
   fundamentals over the medium to long term.

   The progress in program implementation has been significant, with many important
   accomplishments, including:

          ·     improved macroeconomic and fiscal framework, achieved strong economic growth
          and poverty reduction (see further discussion below);

          ·     improved cash collection in electricity and gas over 90%;

          ·     improvements in financial discipline, fiscal and monetary policies, as evidenced by
          reduced budget, tax and inter-enterprise arrears;

          ·     improved regulatory framework in the financial and telecommunication sectors;

          ·     Ukraine moved forward on the path to WTO accession, particularly in areas of
          technical regulation and intellectual property rights;

          ·     system of budget execution and intergovernmental finance strengthened;

          ·     legislative and institutional framework for modern pension reform improved;

          ·     improved social inclusion and quality of social care, better targeting social
          assistance.

   In addition to significant overall progress, the Borrower has surpassed the original benchmarks
   of the PAL-2 in a number of cases. These include the following: a) cash collections in gas and



                                                  - 8 -

electricity; b) progress on development of EU technical procedures and adoption of voluntary
product standards; c) enactment of the legislative basis for a modern three pillar pension
system; d) enactment of good laws on mortgage and secured interest; e) establishment of the
institutional and enforcement basis to combat money laundering and financing of terrorists; f)
initiation of a program to de-shadow and deregulate customs clearance; g) establishment of a
communications regulator; and e) dramatic reduction of tax exemptions, from an already low
base.

The main criticism of progress under the program is that it took longer to implement than
originally envisaged.     While the US$75 million first tranche of PAL-2 was disbursed in
December 2003, the second tranche of PAL-2 (US$172.5 million) was disbursed in June 2005
- six months later than expected - and with two waivers on: i) enactment by the Verkhovna
Rada (parliament of Ukraine) of a comprehensive law on debt restructuring in the energy
sector, and ii) partially on launching of the corresponding privatization tender. The delay was
mainly due to dramatic worsening of the political situation in the fall/winter 2004 presidential
election. It became excessively difficult for key decisions to receive support by the cabinet of
ministers and the parliament. Thus, despite continued technical progress, the above mentioned
agreed actions of the program were not concluded.

However, shortly following the PAL-2 approval, government achieved progress that would
have satisfied one of the relevant PAL-2 benchmarks, and moved even further under
subsequent Development Policy Loan program. In particular, the Verkhovna Rada passed a
comprehensive energy sector debt restructuring law and in parallel, the Government developed
an "Action Plan for Financial Recovery of the Fuel and Energy Sector". This plan was
approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on May 28, 2005 and represented a comprehensive
program of action to bring Ukraine's energy companies to financial solvency, including
implementation of the debt restructuring law and increased private participation in the energy
sector. Combined with the debt restructuring law, this overall program should lead to higher
quality privatization in the energy sector. Also, the Government has more recently developed a
strategy for energy sector development and reform covering the next 10 years, and the
government has prepared a draft concept for legal and technical harmonization of Ukraine's
energy sector with the main principles of the EU internal energy market under the Development
Policy Loan.

As mentioned above, PAL-2 also paved the way for the fast preparation and release of the First
Development Policy Loan soon after the appointment of President Yushchenko. The operation
helped to preserve progress on the reform program during a difficult political period from
mid-2003 through mid-2005, and simultaneously was able to implement a shift from
"adjustment" to "development policy" lending in Ukraine. In this manner, PAL-2 significantly
helped the new government translate its objectives into a sequenced and prioritized program of
actions fully consistent with the original PAL objectives.

Furthermore, under PAL program, Ukraine has established a sustainable macroeconomic and
fiscal framework which has created the basis for strong economic growth. In the years since
the 1998 regional financial crisis, improvements in financial discipline, fiscal and monetary
policies, a current account adjustment (supported by a weak real exchange rate), regional
growth trends, improvements in the business climate and implementation of structural reforms



                                              - 9 -

have resulted in strong GDP growth which total 50 percent for the period 1999 to 2004. Also
Ukraine's current account ran into large surpluses, and reserves of the central bank rose
dramatically. Reduced government borrowing and strong growth performance have at the
same time reduced public debt to less than 20 percent of GDP.

In 2004 capping off growth surged, Ukraine economy grew by 12.1 percent. The primary
driver of growth has been industry, with industrial production growing by 87,3 percent during
1999-2004. Strong demand and improvements in the terms of trade-- in particular, from the
high world prices for steel-- resulted in a record US$ 6.8 billion (10.5 percent of GDP) current
account surplus in 2004.       Despite rapid growth of traditional industries, the economy
diversified during the PAL period: value added in industry increased in real terms by 78.3
percent during 1999-2004, in services - by 38 percent, in agriculture ­ by 30,7 percent, as well
as in trade.

Shares of new EU members in merchandise exports increased during 1999-2004 by 1.7 percent
to 11.7 percent. Shares of Asia in merchandise exports decreased during 1999-2004 by 2.9
percent to 24.6 percent. Shares of the CIS decreased by 1.9 percent to 26.2 percent, and
EU-15 remained at 18.3 percent.          Current account surpluses, increased foreign direct
investment, and borrowings on international capital markets led to strong accumulation of
international reserves by the NBU. These exceeded US$ 9.5 billion by the end of 2004,
equivalent to 3 months of imports of goods and service, despite substantial reserve losses
during the tumultuous presidential elections of 2004.

Monetary policy conditions, combined with fiscal looseness after the 2004 election, have not
been aligned with the announced goal of single digit consumer inflation. Inflation pressures
reflected continued strong money growth and a slowing of money demand, increasingly tight
capacity constraints and large hikes in public wages and pensions. The impact and persistence
of these shocks on inflation have been enhanced by a monetary policy framework that
transmitted exchange rate market pressures directly into growth of monetary aggregates. As a
result, CPI growth reached 14.9 percent year-on-year in August 2005. In light of inflationary
pressures and international capital market speculation, the NBU allowed a one-off shift of the
de facto peg by 4 percent, which made up 5.05 hryvnia per one US dollar in April 2005. This
moderate exchange rate realignment lessened the inflation pressure, reduced the inflow of hot
capital, and has helped establish the basis to move toward a floating rate.

On the other hand, a number of indicators turned out to be on the positive side of expectations.
Budget execution has been better than expected.        The 2005 Budget, amended in March,
reduced the targeted consolidated deficit from implicit deficit of 6.8 percent to 2.2 percent of
GDP. It eliminated most remaining tax privileges, tax compliance and enforcement were
improved, so that tax revenues were up by 5.6 percent of GDP from January to November
2005, year-on-year.     VAT net collection growth is most impressive (3.4 percent GDP
year-on-year). While the budget remained in surplus through November, the expected deficit
for the year 2005 is 3 percent of GDP. This is lower than the 4.4 percent deficit in 2004.
Public debt continues on a declining path, now below 20 percent of GDP. Socially-oriented
fiscal expenditures helped to boost households' incomes, which grew by 20.1 percent during
2005 in real terms.

Consumer inflation, though not in single digits yet, has been on decelerating path since the


                                              - 10 -

summer of 2005. Exchange rate realignment in April 2005 has helped to curb inflationary
pressures, while additional steps were taken toward greater exchange rate flexibility. The NBU
and the IMF continue to work on this area. The 2005 end-of-period inflation (10.3 percent) is
lower, compared to 2004 (12.3 percent). Likewise, the Producer Price Index declined from
24.1 percent as of end-2004 to 9.5 percent for whole 2005.

A summary of main macroeconomic indicators is displayed in Table 1.

               Table 1: Main Macroeconomic Indicators, 1999-2005


                                                     1999   2000  2001   2002     2003 2004   2005

 Real GDP (change in percent)                          -0.2  5.9   9.2     5.2      9.6 12.1  2.6

 Real Industrial Production (change in percent)          4  12.4  14.2       7     15.8 12.5  3.1



 CPI, a.o.p. (change in percent)                      22.7  28.2    12     0.8      5.2 9     13.5

 CPI, e.o.p. (change in percent)                      19.2  25.8   6.1    -0.6      8.2 12.3  10.3

 Real Exchange Rate, a.o.p. (change in percent, a      -2.7  -6.3  0.4    -5.2      -8.9 -5.7 15.3
 decline means depreciation)



 Current Account Balance (percent of GDP)              5.2   4.7   3.7     7.5      5.8 11.0  --

 Foreign Exchange Reserves (USD billions)              1.1   1.5   3.1     4.4      6.9 9.5   19.4

 Fiscal Balance (percent of GDP)                       -2.4  -1.3 -1.6     0.5      -0.9 -4.4 3

 PPG Debt and Arrears (percent of GDP)                66.7    47  38.6    35.7     30.0 25.1  19.1



 Memo:

 Nominal GDP (in billions of USD)                     31.6  31.3    38    42.4     50.1 64.9  81.7

 GNI per capita (USD, Atlas method)                    760   690   720     780      970 1,260 --

 Source: SSC, NBU, IMF, WB


During the PAL period, poverty incidence decreased significantly (see Graph 1), and real
wages grew on average 19.7 percent annually. A factor that remains a concern is the increasing
disparity of household income levels between urban and rural regions, which is an issue under
focus of the ongoing DPL program.




                                               - 11 -

                      Graph 1. Ukraine Poverty Incidence
             (percent of population under the poverty line)
     40%


     35%


     30%


     25%


     20%


     15%


     10%

            1999         2000       2001        2002        2003
               Large cities          Small towns           Rural areas

   Source: WB estimates, Ukraine HBS




  4.2 Outputs by components:
     Within each component of PAL-2, which were interlinked and crosscutting, benchmarks were
     focused on policy, institutional and structural achievements completed. Thus, the table below
     summarizes progress made under specific Board and second tranche release benchmarks, while
     the matrix of all benchmarks is attached in the Annex 7. All of the benchmarks, with the noted
     exceptions on debt restructuring and power privatization, were completed prior to PAL-2
     second tranche release.

                                 PAL-2                                             Summary of Progress

           First and Second Tranche Benchmarks

1) Fiscal and Financial Discipline

l Reduction of budget and tax arrears.                                            Achieved

l Immediate reforms to improve financial discipline in the
   energy sector, through successful implementation o
   short-term plan, and adoption of a comprehensive long-term                     Achieved

   plans to bring the energy complex to financial solvency and
   attract investment.                                                            Waiver proposed
l Improved payment discipline in energy sector through
   satisfactory debt resolution.

2) Regulatory Framework

l Improved legal and regulatory framework in critical sectors,                    Achieved
   including agricultural and financial sector.

l Progress toward WTO accession, including harmonization of




                                                           - 12 -

   technical standards system with EU requirements and                               Achieved

   development of legal framework in correspondence with the
   requirements of TRIPS.

3) Property Rights

l Transformation of ownership and organizational structure in
   agriculture through enactment of the law which forms legal
   basis for establishment of a unified system of registration of                    Achieved

   legal rights to land and real estate within a single agency.

l Further progress in managing natural monopolies and
   encouraging private sector participation:

     (i) Engaging the financial advisor for the privatization of a                   Partial waiver proposed
     group of remaining state-owned Oblenergos and the
     launching of privatization tender.

     (ii) Continued progress toward completion of an                                 Achieved
     unqualified audit of the consolidated financial statements
     of Naftogaz for 2004, based on IFRS.

4) Public Sector Efficiency and Accountability

l Adoption of a Development Concept for the System of                                Achieved
   Internal Audit and Control according to EU standards.

l Introduction of more effective tax and revenue system
   through reduction of sector/industry specific tax exemptions                      Achieved

   and privileges.

5) Management of Social and Environmental Risks

l Progress in establishment of legislative, technical and                            Achieved
   institutional framework for pension reform.

l Improved system of targeted social assistance.                                     Achieved
l Promote environmental compliance through a more efficient
   system of environmental regulation.                                               Achieved



    Also included in the description below, are important benchmarks and milestones where
    notable progress steps were achieved. More detail can be found in the PAL-2 Program
    Document for first tranche benchmarks and milestones, and in the PAL-2 Second Tranche
    Release Memo for second tranche benchmarks.

    1. Fiscal and Financial Discipline

        l Without the use of tax amnesties, active "Active tax arrears" exclude arrears of
             enterprises less than six months old (many of which are fictitious), as well as arrears of




                                                    - 13 -

      enterprises which are in bankruptcy proceedings, since those arrears are frozen through
      the bankruptcy proceedings and cannot be collected until bankruptcy continues. For
      additional information see benchmark on bankruptcies on page 18 below. Tax arrears
      of non-energy enterprise decreased from 0.9 percent of GDP in January 2002 to 0.3
      percent of GDP in April 2005.

   l The stock of wage (with negligible exceptions) and social protection arrears ­ originally
      4 % of GDP, have been eliminated.

   l In 2003, the Law on Protection of Creditors Claims and Registration of Charges, and
      Law on Mortgage laid down the foundation for more secured lending and the use of
      movable assets and mortgages as collateral. The benchmark on secured interest was
      originally envisaged to be covered by PAL-3, but it was achieved earlier with WB
      technical assistance support.

   l Throughout the PAL-2 period and to date all pensions have been paid on time (with
      negligible exceptions).

   l Cash collections have increased from 50 percent of energy bills as of January 2002 to
      97.5 percent for gas and to 95 percent for electricity by the end of 2005.

   l An emergency reserve list of potentially environmentally hazardous enterprises,
      including the protected volume of electricity, was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers
      (CoM) and financing sources were identified for each of these enterprises. This allows
      financial discipline through the threat of cutting energy supply in case they could not
      pay.

   l A draft law on "Charging Penalties for Untimely Payment for Consumed Electricity,
      Gas and Communal Services" was submitted to parliament.

   l Through enactment of the economic code, local governments are obliged to
      compensate municipal companies for setting loss-making municipal services tariffs.

   l Electricity payment and/or tariff privileges for individual business entities and/or sectors
      were prohibited with the exception of the tariff level for the communal service
      companies.

   l A comprehensive action plan (with dated actions), which brings fuel and energy
      companies to financial solvency and eliminates further accumulation of arrears of tax
      and/or other payment obligations was adopted by CoM.

   l A law on energy sector debt restructuring was adopted. This condition was waived by
      the WB Board at the time of second tranche approval.            Within two weeks after
      approval of the second tranche, the draft law was enacted in June 2005.

2. Regulatory Framework

   Banking sector

   l The National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) is enforcing compliance according to Basel Core
      Principles (BCP) for banking supervision on bank capital, large exposure, provisioning
      and essential participation (among others), and has a schedule for phasing in compliance



                                           - 14 -

                  on connected lending. In general, the NBU is now compliant with 22 of 30 BCPs for
                  bank supervision.

l NBU prepared and submitted to parliament revisions to the Law on Banks and Banking
                  and Law on Auditing that envision strengthening of NBU powers in the area of bank
                  auditing.

l The State Staving Bank of Ukraine fully adhered to a Memorandum of Understanding
                  (MoU), which limited its lending activities, reduced its administrative costs, and
                  allowed it to be recapitalized to NBU regulations primarily out of its own revenues.
                  The bank is now profitable, and it has been sufficiently capitalized due to the state's
                  injection of 400 millions hryvnas into the bank statutory capital at the end of 2005. The
                  bank has entered into a positive restructuring stage with close oversight of the National
                  Bank of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, and the Supervisory Board of the Saving
                  Bank. The limits of the MoU remain in place as of the writing of this report, while a
                  draft Memorandum of Development for the Bank has been drafted and preliminarily
                  approved.

l An independent regulator for non-banking financial institutions was established as per
                  the Law on Financial Services and State Regulation of Financial Service Markets. The
                  Regulator is now fully operational and building competence.

Business registration and licensing

l Pilots were conducted on two oblasts on methods of simplifying post-registration
                  procedures (registering with tax authorities, receiving a permit and elimination of
                  re-registration requirements). Based on these pilots, an action plan was developed and
                  implementation has begun on a locality by locality basis.

l The legal basis for a comprehensive de-regulation was provided when the Law on
                  Regulatory Policy was approved in September 11, 2003. This was followed in 2005 by
                  approval of a reform law on permits.

l A baseline cost of doing business survey was prepared covering all oblasts of Ukraine
                  for the year 2002. This survey was updated for the year 2004. The results showed
                  continued improvement (see Chart1 below), although less than originally envisaged.

                       Chart 1.Aggregate Regulatory Compliance Cost

                  3,500


                  3,000
                           $3,222
 $                2,500


                  2,000
                                              $2,248
  expenses,                                                $1,981
                  1,500

           erall
                  1,000
                Ov

                    500


                      0

                      1998  1999   2000  2001 2002   2003  2004   2005




                                                                 - 15 -

l The number of licensing and registration procedures was consolidated and reduced, as
   well as the number of business inspections.

Capital market development

l A good draft Law on Joint Stock Companies was finalized and submitted to the
   Parliament. The draft is based largely on an earlier version worked out in agreement
   with the World Bank under the auspices of the PAL-2.

l The Draft Law of Ukraine "On Securities and Stock Market" was approved by
   parliamentary Committee on Finance and Banking and recommended as a basis for
   voting in the first reading at the meeting of the Supreme Council.

l A study was completed by a private consulting firm, for the State Property Fund, on
   management, incentive, accounting, auditing and disclosure of state owned enterprises.

l The Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine now requires auditors to use the International
   Standards of Auditing (ISA) in their work. While this decision lacks an enforcement
   mechanism, the NBU jointly with the Chamber of Auditors agreed on the procedures
   for the registration of bank auditors. Thus, all banks are now required to produce
   annual external audit reports according to ISA. The Securities and Stock Market State
   Commission issued an order requiring all companies whose stocks and bonds are
   actively traded to prepare and publish on-line annual external audit reports according to
   ISA.

Telecom regulation

l In 2003 an EU compliant law on telecommunications was enacted by the parliament.
   This benchmark was expected to be completed under PAL-3, but was achieved earlier.
   This provided for establishing an independent regulator in telecommunications sector
   and allocating state budget for its functioning for 2005 and 2006.

Trading rules and standards

l The legal framework for a system of certification, accreditation and confirmation of
   correspondence to international standards was enacted.        An independent national
   agency for accreditation was created. The agency has a staff of 60, has accredited
   numerous laboratories to international standards, and is nearing completion of
   international certification status, so that accreditations completed can be accepted
   internationally. This may require a review by the agency of agencies it accredited.

l As of February 21, 2005 2,241 technical standard were harmonized with international
   and European standards and adopted by the State Committee of Ukraine on Technical
   Regulation and Consumer Policy (Derzhspozhyvstandart).

l Sixteen out of 25 technical procedures based on the EU "New Approach" were
   approved by official orders of the State Committee of Ukraine on Technical Regulation
   and Consumer Policy (Derzhspozhyvstandart) and registered by the Ministry of Justice.
   The remaining 9 are moving through the approval process.

l A legal framework fully compliant with the TRIPS requirements have been approved by




                                         - 16 -

      parliament. This entailed enactment of approximately 25 legislative acts, including laws
      and supporting acts in the sphere of copyright and related rights.

   l The MOE has established an enquiry point for WTO in Ukraine, and continues to
      conduct a public awareness campaign toward acceptance by the public of Ukraine's
      WTO accession efforts.

   l Some important analytical works were conducted for the government under the Dutch
      Grant to facilitate the process of WTO accession. In particular, the following WTO
      related reports were prepared: "Analysis of conformity of Ukrainian legislation with
      standards of WTO and agreements made in the framework of WTO; preparation of
      proposals as to bringing Ukrainian legislation into conformity with standards and
      requirements of WTO", "Analysis of economic implications of Ukraine's WTO
      accession".

3. Property Rights

   l The Privatization Advisory Group (PAG) is made up of local business leaders, think
      tank heads, IFI representatives, and government officials. It was created under the
      auspices of PAL-1 to review and advise on the quality of Ukraine's privatization
      process of a randomly selected sample of achieved transactions during 2002. Problems
      and recommendations were provided by PAG to the Government, and on the whole
      PAG indicated that the quality of the process had improved over 2001 and prior years.
      PAG conducted a second review in September 2004 for the years 2003-2004. This
      time, PAG was not able to come to a clear position, primarily related to the ongoing
      controversy surrounding "Kryvorizhstal", which was selected by PAG on a non-random
      basis for the 2004 review.

   Energy sector privatization

   l Naftogaz has achieved considerable progress in completion of an unqualified audit of
      the consolidated financial statements. In particular, an inventory was conducted with
      the participation of auditors at the beginning and end of 2004. Also, a stock taking of
      the 100 percent proven oil and gas reserves was conducted by the international
      appraisal company. Separately, and based on the oil and gas reserve appraisal, a value
      of fixed asset evaluation was carried out. Also, as required by IFRS, the audited
      consolidated financial statements of Naftogaz were made public.

   l The benchmark on issuance of a privatization tender for a group of power distribution
      companies, was waived in light of the consolidation of the remaining companies into the
      Energy Company of Ukraine, combined with delays in implementation of the debt
      restructuring law, which was a prerequisite for successful privatization. The process
      toward privatization, however, continues through ongoing efforts to implement the law
      on debt restructuring and through changes in the ownership and management structure
      of the companies in Ukraine's state owned energy complex.

   Land and real estate property rights

   l A new Land Code was approved just after PAL-1 Board approval and under PAL-2,
      progress has been made in preparation and approval of bylaws and regulations


                                           - 17 -

      necessary for its implementation.           This allows for land trading and financial
      intermediation.

   l The Law of Ukraine "On State Registration of Property Rights to Real Estate and Their
      Limitations" was passed and came into force on August 3, 2004. This law established
      the legal basis for creation of a single registry for land and real estate within a single
      agency. Unfortunately, today the Agency to be chosen for this registry has not been
      identified, and thus in practice, the law is not yet being implemented.

   l With assistance of the World Bank and USAID, the Land Committee of Ukraine has
      cumulatively issued 5, 546, 548 land titles out of around 7 millions during 2000 ­ 2005.

   Bankruptcy procedures

   l In order to reduce tax arrears 10 of the 20 largest debtors entered into restructuring
      and/or bankruptcy procedures implemented for banks and other enterprises.               In
      particular, Bank Ukraine has been fully liquidated.

   l Bankruptcy procedures were used to facilitate enterprise and bank restructuring and
      promote economic growth. In year 2002 there were 7,424 cases initiated, among
      which 5,698 were finished, representing 76 percent of the number initiated. In 2003
      out of 8,102 cases initiated 7,904 were finished, representing 97 percent of the number
      initiated.

4. Public Sector Accountability

   l The system of local budget subventions and transfers was improved by (a) making fiscal
      transfers directly to oblasts, cities, and rayons, (b) development of draft methodology of
      systematic approach for allocating subventions from the State Budget for
      implementation of investment projects.

   l A plan was developed to consolidate control over collection of contributions to social
      funds and the Pension Fund in a single agency, vertical centralization of social fund
      flows was completed within each social fund, a unified base for calculation of
      contributions was established, and a unified database of insured persons was
      established.   The database of insured persons, however, has not yet been fully
      populated.

   l The revenue of all non-pension social funds is currently channeled through the Single
      Account of the State Treasury of Ukraine, while the system of external oversight of the
      financial flows of the Pension Fund was strengthened by the State Treasury of Ukraine.

   l A Concept on Internal Financial Control, designed to be compliant with the relevant
      chapters of the EU acqui communitaire, was completed and approved by the Cabinet of
      Ministers.   A Public Finance Management Project of the World Bank is under
      preparation to help with its implementation.

   l An external oversight body for the State Tax Administration was established and two
      reviews have been completed by the oversight body. Additionally, as part of the
      constitutional reform effective since January 1, 2006, the supreme financial control
      body of Ukraine - Auditing Chamber has been ensured the right to conduct external



                                              - 18 -

            audit of financial resources of the State Budget of Ukraine.

      l An automated treasury system, KAZNA, was implemented in all oblast treasury offices
            for the state budget, 12 of which will also handle the local budgets.

      l The number of exceptions for the use of competitive bidding process (single-source
            selection) was reduced to 25% of the total number and 35% of the total value of
            contracts, excluding contracts signed with state and natural monopolies.

      l A reduction of tax exemptions by more than 55% has been achieved since January 1,
            2002 of sector/industry specific tax exemptions and privileges.

   5. Management of Social and Environmental Risks

      l The legislative basis for a modern three pillar pension system was enacted.

      l Social benefit programs focusing on the vulnerable reduced in the number from 11 to 5.

      l Targeted fuel and liquefied gas subsidies are now provided as cash payments to
            recipients.

      l An implementation plan for the National Doctrine of Education was approved. Also,
            the regulatory framework for provision of loans to higher education students was
            improved and approved.

      l Based on a diagnostic of Ukraine's health system, financial and economic analysis of
            proposals for developing a national health system have been prepared, regional plans
            have been developed and approved for optimization of the network of rural health care
            establishments in three oblasts. Also, the implementation plans for the national TB and
            Aids control strategies have been adopted. Unfortunately, on this latter point, limited
            implementation progress has been achieved.

      l Since 2003, special benefits for public workers are targeted -- through annual budgets
            -- to low income workers, and housing an communal service entitlements are limited
            (including through pro-rating calculations) to only the immediate family members of
            beneficiaries.

      l The Cabinet of Ministers approved an adjustment in environmental charges to partially
            make up for the loss in real value of pollution fines since 1996, and moved to a system
            of indexation of pollution charges on a yearly basis.

      l A pilot system of integrated pollution prevention permits was launched.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
   Substantial.




                                                  - 19 -

   The PAL-2 was designed and implemented in support of a policy, institutional and structural
   reform program. The operation resulted in substantial institutional development achievements.
   Three key broad institutional development benefits of the PAL program, and PAL-2 in
   particular, were as follows:

          1. Better policy coordination. During PAL-2 implementation the large majority of
          Ukraine's political factions supported the development of a market economy and
          eventual European integration, which formed a backdrop for the government program.
          Using this favorable factor, PAL-2 provided an anchor for the pro-reform constituency
          in the government and of the parliament and acted as a catalyst for changes. In addition
          to overall policy coordination, significant progress was made on fiscal policy
          coordination and public finance management. Also, PAL-2 helped to coordinate and
          direct technical assistance to support needed areas of government program.

          2. Higher quality implementation of reform measures. The sustainability of economic
          development depends at great extent on the pace and quality with which market
          institutions are established, and how the economy continues to reorient itself. PAL-2
          was directly focused on these issues, providing for high-quality reform implementation,
          which would help to mitigate the vulnerability of the economy to downside risks.
          During PAL-2 period independent regulatory bodies were created and strengthened in
          none bank financial institutions, telecom, and energy; business regulations were
          streamlined; bank regulation and enforcement was improved; accounting and auditing
          practices were brought much closer to operational international standards; progress was
          made improving property rights; and on establishing an institutional basis upon which
          Ukraine can benefit from WTO accession.

          3. Promotion of wider participation of civil society in the design and implementation
          of reforms. Seizing the opportunity of growing public perception in Ukraine that a
          partnership between the government and civil society is both feasible and effective,
          massive public education campaign was launched to engage stakeholders (in the private
          sector and civil society) into the formulation and design of PAL-2 program during
          2003-2004. The campaign was funded by PHRD grant and covered 15 out of 26
          regions of Ukraine, where the Bank and the government participated in broad
          discussions with the representatives of private sector, think tanks and civil society on
          PAL-2 objectives, outcomes and benchmarks. Discussions were conducted in form of
          press-clubs, round tables and workshops and generated great interest among
          participants and mass media. Comments received during discussions were incorporated
          into PAL-2 design to reflect the needs of businesses and civil society. After PAL-2
          program document was finalized, it was translated into Ukrainian, presented and
          broadly disseminated among stakeholders along with the supporting analytical works
          prepared under Dutch and PHRD grants.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
   Favorable factors.

   Economic Factors. During the operational period, Ukraine benefited from strong growth in


                                                     - 20 -

   neighboring countries, especially Russia. This resulted in strong external demand for the export
   of traditional commodity products such as chemicals, metals, and agricultural products. Rapid
   growth in China produced a material increase in the price of Ukraine's steel exports, while
   continued growth in Russia benefited Ukraine's machinery exports. Partly as a result, export
   growth averaged 25 percent (year-on-year) since end-2002, yielding a sizeable current account
   surplus. Exporters' profits in turn helped fuel domestic investment and construction, which
   boosted additional manufacturing demand for machinery.

   In addition, a sharp increase in bank lending to the private sector and rising disposable incomes
   helped to generate domestic demand. Growing confidence in the banking system and domestic
   currency helped generate significant money demand increases which helped to bring down
   inflation, even as the money supply was growing around 40 percent per year during the PAL-2
   period. Finally, although the winter wheat crop was damaged in 2003 (20 million tons of
   wheat crop in 2003 compared to 38 million tons of wheat crops in 2002), overall weather for
   agricultural production was relatively good.

   Unfavorable factors.

   Political Factors. Rapport between the executive and the parliament in Ukraine was often
   fractious during implementation of PAL-2. As a result, differences on how to move the
   necessary legislation forward were not always resolved in a timely manner, even if there were
   no major disagreements on the fundamentals of the reform.

   Ultimately, political infighting did affect both the speed and quality of reforms. As an example,
   during the pre-elections period and especially September-October 2004, both the government
   and the parliament were preoccupied with political considerations and/or election related
   issues. Their capacity to participate substantively in reforms and implement them was seriously
   hampered, and resumption of business happened only after new Cabinet was in place in Spring
   2005.

   In addition, vested interests in the status quo succeeded in blocking some reform initiatives in
   the early stages of PAL-2's second tranche implementation. These interests took advantage of
   the fractured power structure, in which often the president, the prime minister, and groups in
   the parliament were aligned with conflicting political agendas.          These problems became
   especially acute in the run-up to the 2004 Presidential elections.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
   Favorable factors.

   Political. While PAL-1 was designed with the government of then Prime Minister Yushchenko,
   it was completed and disbursed under the Kinakh government. PAL-2 was then designed and
   the Board date held under the government of then Prime Minister Yanukovich.                It was
   fortunate that both the Kinahk and Yanukovich governments chose to adhere to the broad
   design of the reforms put in place during the Yushchenko government.

   Thus, the PAL program remained a core organizing tool for successive governments which
   carried the reform process through the difficult period of the presidential election. As a result,
   the World Bank was in a good position to help the post-election government quickly establish a



                                                    - 21 -

satisfactory medium term strategy which is now being supported by the DPL program.

The 2004 presidential election and resulting "Orange Revolution" brought significant political
change and resulted in numerous reforms supported by PAL-2. Mr. Yushchenko was elected
president with a mandate to implement a European integration strategy, seek Ukraine's
accession to the WTO, and to fight corruption. The new government quickly laid out a
program designed to realize this mandate, which was very much in line with the PAL program
design, and is now being supported by the DPL program.

Structural. PAL-2 benchmarks and milestones were determined in a close working relationship
with the government and as a result complemented the government's own reform program.

In this manner, the government was able to use PAL-2 to inform and guide its reform program,
contributing to satisfactory progress overall, and over-performance in a number of areas. In
particular, PAL-2 original objectives were exceeded in tax exemption reform, improvement of
the business regulatory system, on key institutional reform legislation (on telecom, land reform,
pension reform, mortgage legislation), cash collection in electricity and gas, and elimination of
mutual offsets and barter in the economy.

The government's approach to project organization and implementation also contributed
strongly to PAL-2 working group effectiveness and strengthened stakeholders.                 The
government also continued, carrying over from PAL-1, to organize itself in a manner that
accentuated institutional development and capacity building among a broad number of
government officials. Line ministry officials were ultimately held responsible for the day-to day
implementation of reforms. This was extremely important for moving the program forward.

Unfavorable factors.

Civil Service pay, politicization and capacity. Low civil service pay in Ukraine continues to be
a factor limiting capacity in the government, both at the state and local levels. Progress was
made during the PAL-2 period, led by the active efforts of the Main Civil Service Department
of the government, to develop a cash and merit based system of incentives to attract and retain
talent and fidelity in civil service.

Implementing reform of civil service policies and strengthening capacity across the civil service
will, however, require a focused effort over several years to pass and implement the new Civil
Service Law, to provide for some downsizing, reassigning of staff, and investing in training.
The role of support programs linked to the EU Action Plan could be very important in this
regard. That said, the turnover of civil servants that has tended to accompany changes in
government in Ukraine suggests that the effort at de-politicization of the civil service, which
was part of PAL-1, needs to be restarted. In particular, delimiting political and administrative
positions, conducting open competitive selection of candidates for all civil servants positions.
Prime Minister Yekhanurov recently spoke in support of further de-politicization of civil
service.

Institutional range, depth and independence. The range and depth of public institutions to
support a market economy in Ukraine are still lacking. Progress has been made to create
institutions (e.g., accreditation agency, non-bank financial institution regulator, telecom
regulator, and most recently, a foreign investment promotion agency), but much more needs to



                                             - 22 -

   be done to strengthen them.          Startup agencies are typically poorly funded, and remain
   dependent on the ministries who earlier covered their regulatory roles, and/or the Ministry of
   Finance, which controls the purse strings. Not enough coordination of donor programs is
   taking place, first and foremost by the Ministry of Economy to make sure that donor funds are
   used effectively, do not overlap, and that gaps in donor assistance are filled rapidly (overall,
   significant funding is available if sought, well used, and properly channeled).

   In light of this, efforts were made through PAL-2 project preparation and implementation to
   attract and effectively use technical assistance, funded by donors, to help build up capacity
   necessary to advance detailed institution building at the sector level. Hands-on assistance from
   Bank experts across the range of policy issues, and through regular meetings of working
   groups in each of the five thematic areas of PAL also contributed to address this issue.
   Additionally, as noted above, the PAL-2 working groups provided an effective forum for
   dealing with blockages to institutional reform, since they served as an "early warning" system
   for of identifying roadblocks. This enabled the Bank to act as a catalyst or arbitrator on a
   case-by-case basis where special technical assistance and/or hands on attention from the team
   was needed ­ especially to provide example practices that have proven effective elsewhere in
   the world.

   Inflationary Pressures. Expansionary financial policies and rising domestic income contribute
   to inflationary pressures, in an economy which showed signs of overheating in some sectors.
   While through the end of 2004, the threat of inflation limited options for expanding fiscal
   policy, this was not sustained in the run-up to the presidential election. In late 2004, the 2004
   budget was amended to fulfill election promises to significantly increase pension benefits and
   to increase the minimum public wage. These recurrent obligations were then integrated into
   the 2005 budget and maintained. As a result, the Pension Fund of Ukraine went from a small
   surplus to an annual deficit of about 3.5 percent of GDP. Overall public expenditures increased
   by roughly 5 percent of GDP as compared to 2004. However, these were financed through
   elimination of most remaining tax privileges, improvements in tax compliance and enforcement,
   and a perceived reduction of the shadow economy (not tax rate increases, nor introduction of
   new taxes). As mentioned above, inflation peaked at 14.9 percent year-over-year in August
   2005, and fell to 9.8 percent year-over-year in January 2006.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
   The implementing agency for PAL-2 program was the government of Ukraine, represented by
   Ministry of Economy (MOE) as a main Bank's counterpart.                Key ministries and other
   beneficiary agencies, responsible for certain benchmarks implementation, participated in
   program through working groups, led and coordinated by MOE.

   There were two key problems in regard to program coordination: (i) MOE limited ability to
   influence other agencies' performance; and (ii) limited capacity of MOE to prepare analytical
   information for, and process information coming from, other governmental agencies on timely
   basis. The first problem often was resolved through the support of the COM, the second was
   at great extent strengthened through support of the grants programs.

   Under PAL-2, both the PHRD Grant and the Dutch Grant were government-executed.
   However, at the beginning of PAL-2, there was very little capacity in the government to do



                                                    - 23 -

   this, including inability to coordinate ideas and needs and generate terms of references.
   Government was lacking knowledge about WB procurement and implementation procedures,
   and suffered reputation problems, which threatened to lower overall the quality of firms and
   consultants applying for assignments.

   The Bank team, including the Kyiv-based procurement staff, worked intensively with a small
   Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the MOE on grant implementation. Through most of
   the PAL-2 period, grant implementation did not go smoothly. In particular, the Dutch Grant
   was frozen at times.

   However, through time and effort on both sides, capacity for managing these grants has
   significantly improved, and the recent acceleration of disbursements and outputs under the
   Dutch Grant is a good indicator of that success. With the Dutch Grant closure in December of
   2005, and along with the general movement toward integration of PIU activities into
   implementing ministries, efforts are now ongoing to build this capacity in an even more
   integrated manner into the MOE. In turn, the MOE is working more closely and efficiently
   with beneficiary agencies across the government on program implementation.


5.4 Costs and financing:
N/A

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
   The sustainability of PAL-2 outcomes is rated as Highly Likely for the following reasons.

   In 2005, despite slower growth and remaining vulnerabilities, the macroeconomic and fiscal
   dynamics have been satisfactory. On the one hand, a forecasted slowdown has been more
   pronounced than expected, while inflationary pressures remain significant. In particular, GDP
   growth has decelerated to 2.4 percent year-on-year in 2005. A large portion of the slowdown
   is an objective cyclical downturn, anchored in the roots of growth generated since 1999.

   Cutbacks in public investment accompanied by continuing uncertainty in political environment
   have caused a substantial fall in investment demand. The contribution of net exports has
   declined due to Ukraine's deteriorating ability to benefit from world commodity markets and
   real appreciation of hryvnia. The terms of trade facing Ukraine, on a trade weighted basis,
   increased by 24 percent between 2000 and 2004, but are already starting to move relatively
   against Ukraine. Consumption growth, fuelled by fiscal stimulus, has remained strong.


   Regarding the macroeconomic situation, the Bank staff project moderately good economic
   performance going forward. However, sustaining and increasing these growth levels, and
   enhancing resilience to the external shocks to which Ukraine remains vulnerable, requires
   implementation of significant structural reforms, including improvements to the investment
   climate.


   For 2006, the following issues are most pressing:



                                              - 24 -

   l A natural gas price increase for Ukraine puts downward pressure on production, public
        finances, and the balance of payments. Depending on the policy response, it can also
        create inflationary pressure, although one-time adjustments to energy cost increases are
        less worrisome than expectations-driven velocity changes. While the exact terms of the
        gas imports are still not clear for the whole of 2006 and beyond, preliminary estimations
        and the working assumption for these estimations is an import gas price of $95 per cmc
        in 2006. Our estimates suggest, that this would yield a negative influence on GDP
        growth of 1.9%.

   l The budget will need to finance more fixed and human capital, with limited increases of
        recurrent spending to keep the deficit under control and not to undermine
        macroeconomic stability.       It is important to base the budget on realistic macro
        assumptions and to resist temptation to spend the privatization proceeds on further
        hikes in public consumption. The approved 2006 budget rests on the overly optimistic
        assumptions on the revenue side, so that further amendments might be needed after the
        election is over.

   l Greater exchange rate flexibility, as recommended by the IMF, may prove to be a good
        instrument to soften the impact of external shocks.

Regarding the structural reform program, the approval of the PAL-2 operation was both a
recognition of the results already achieved by the Government, which significantly exceeded
PAL-2 benchmarks in some areas, and a signal of confidence in the Government's ambitious
reform program.

It also provided crucial, low cost funds to contribute to a sustainable macroeconomic
environment necessary to maintain the reform drive.            The results achieved during the
operational period have helped strengthen the pro-reform constituencies among broad sectors
of the population including pensioners, new land owners, wage earners, SME owners and
employees.

Furthermore, the president and prime minister have made strong and detailed public statements
regarding Ukraine's new Western focus and commitments to EU integration and associated
reforms. As a result, there is a renewed level of confidence in both the implementation of
reforms made during PAL-2 and the pace of reform measures to come.

The majority of PAL-2 associated reform measures and outcomes, because they have helped to
create the institutions and structures for a market economy, could be reversed only with great
difficulty. Moreover, in light of Ukraine's WTO and EU's aspirations, the sustainability of
these measures and their outcomes is very likely.

However, some slippages can and do occur. During PAL-2, a PAL-1 decision to create the
post of State Secretary in an effort to de-politicize public administration, was reversed by a
decision of President Kuchma. The president's administration at that time felt that the system
was not working because politically-appointed ministers were perceived to be too weak in the
system design, but far stronger in practice, which created conflicts. While the measure was
scrapped, it was not forgotten. It is highly likely that a second and redesigned effort at this



                                               - 25 -

   step will be put in place within the next 12 to 18 months, as has been suggested recently by
   Prime Minister Yehanurouv.

   Finally, close alignment of the PAL-2 program, with the EU Action Plan and the Development
   Policy Loan program, both of which followed PAL-2, means that strong partnership support
   will remain for further implementation and strengthening of these reforms over the coming
   years.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
   Highly Satisfactory.

   The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
   highly satisfactory. The program document was well written and comprehensive. Operations
   Committee approval was obtained at the concept document stage, which facilitated a smooth
   process from design to Board approval. The Bank, working closely with the PAL-2 Working
   Group, took into account the project's consistency with the Government's development
   priorities and the Bank's CAS, and implemented thematic approach.

   The Bank brought appropriate resources with a broad skills mix and state of the art expertise
   into project design. Managing such a broad team and breadth of issues imposed additional
   transactions costs, but the task manager handled these elements well.

   During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design
   and all major relevant aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional,
   environmental and financial management. The project was poverty focused. A number of
   preparation missions were conducted by the Bank with a hands-on approach. The availability of
   a PHRD Grant, and a Dutch Grant in support of the PAL program, facilitated the preparation
   process. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during
   preparation and appraisal, and they worked together, often in cooperation with other donors, in
   developing and implementing the necessary instruments to assure that the benchmarks were
   met.

   The Bank's resident mission in Kiev was fundamental to the preparation and supervision of the
   project. In particular, the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (PREM) team at the
   Kyiv office played a strong coordinating role, and all of the project officers contributed
   substantively in their areas of expertise. The local Bank staff, including ACS staff from across
   the sector teams, provided consistent attention and follow up. The Kyiv-based team worked
   closely with the government and provided them with extensive assistance, such as providing
   policy and technical advice, helping to bring in technical assistance where needed through
   various sources and projects, reviewing and commenting on government strategies and legal
   documents, and providing encouragement to reform minded civil servants.

7.2 Supervision:



                                                  - 26 -

   Highly Satisfactory.

   The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was highly satisfactory. As
   noted above, the Bank team members from both Washington and the Kyiv office participated in
   close supervision of the project, in a coordinated fashion with the government.

   Through the working groups, problem solving, status, and coordination issues were dealt with
   effectively. Where problems could not be resolved, issues were raised with Government
   leadership through a variety of avenues, including meetings, letters, and special policy notes.
   The Bank team coordinated with donors regularly, such as through the bi-monthly energy
   reform task force hosted by EBRD, attended by representatives of the government and energy
   think tanks, and often covering issues raised and/or supported by the PAL program.

   The presence of the Team Leader in Kyiv during most of the period of supervision dramatically
   helped to ensure that the dialogue and supervision was constant and squarely focused on the
   issues in need. It also put the Team Leader in close association with donor and embassy
   representatives focusing on related issues, and of course the ability to monitor local
   developments first hand and constantly, contributes to supervision of a cross-cutting policy
   loan of this nature.

   The Bank can also be recommended for having helped preserve delivery of the original
   development objectives by only proposing to proceed with second tranche release when the
   program had been substantially completed.          Parliament's decision to approve the debt
   restructuring law right after the requested waiver, and changes in the case of power
   privatization, unforeseen at the time of PAL-2 negotiations, tend to support this posit. The
   supervision team and the loan program also helped avoid back-tracking during a tense political
   season. The Bank's client relationship was very efficient and productive.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
   Highly Satisfactory.

   Overall, the Bank performance was highly satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
   implementation.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
   Satisfactory.

   During PAL-2 preparation stage, the Borrower displayed a high level of commitment to the
   objectives and implementation of the project. As a result, the Government allocated and
   provided sufficient resources to cover PAL-2 design and implementation, including all major
   aspects such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional factors.

   Public officials worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continuous basis on loan
   preparation activities. Discussions leading up to negotiations were carried out through the
   working group process, with broad participation of the ministries and agencies involved. As
   mentioned above, with support of the PAL program, policy formulation and implementation, as
   well as grant management, have improved significantly during the PAL-2 period.



                                                - 27 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
   Satisfactory.

   PAL-2 coordination, preparation, and processing responsibility within the government resided
   with the first vice prime minister, supported by the deputy minister of economy, a coordinating
   group, and five inter-ministerial working groups headed by deputy ministers. These groups
   worked actively on the implementation of the government program in five thematic areas
   supported under PAL-2, as well as prepared inputs for PAL-2 preparation and the necessary
   materials for the CoM consideration.

   The working groups, which consisted of highly qualified staff with professional capacity,
   prepared the internal action plans to achieve the stated benchmarks, monitored and
   documented progress made, and prepared further steps for the subsequent operations. They
   were organized and effective in dealing with various aspects of the operation. These same
   groups continue to be a resource in the design and implementation of the DPL program.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
N/A

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
   Satisfactory.

   The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

   A multi-sectoral design and cross-agency implementation strategy proved useful to address
   inter-locking binding constraints.

   The cross-cutting policy support operations can draw out linkages between issues and reflects
   the strong synergies between market-supporting institutions that implementation. Recognizing
   the cross-cutting nature of the various issues also helps build team coordination, including
   inside the World Bank.      However, this requires in-depth technical background work and
   adequate supervision resources from the Bank's side, and sufficient capacity and understanding
   of the cross-cutting issues on the government's side. Consulting support funded by Donors'
   technical assistance programs has proved to be crucially important to the success of the
   program.

   A high level, multi-sectoral Government Working Group is an effective mechanism for
   monitoring implementation and resolving issues.

   This approach was particularly useful during PAL-2. The five thematic working groups on each
   of the PAL themes significantly improved information flows across government agencies,
   provided a forum to design strategic decisions and monitor their implementation, and in so
   doing, often served as a catalyst for positive change.

   Regular meetings of the working groups helped the Bank team keep a close watch on
   developments, avoid problems before they became entrenched, organize itself according to
   client's needs, and to arrange for technical assistance where appropriate. Dialogue through the


                                                 - 28 -

   working groups, complimented by higher level discussions also helped uncover and create
   pressure for change among laggards. In several cases, this dialogue created cycles of pressure
   of agencies on each other to resolve issues which were mutually problematic (for example, on
   energy arrears or accounting and auditing practices).

   This mechanism also provided an appropriate avenue for effective coordination with other
   development partners.

   The EU Delegation, Dutch, SIDA, USAID, CIDA, and the Government of Japan are providing
   substantial financial support of Ukraine's structural reform program.

   The cross-cutting, thematic design allowed for both flexibility and depth for addressing
   systemic reform.

   The design was flexible in that it allowed more room for sequencing reforms in sync with
   opportunities as they arose and/or the pace of related institutional developments.          The
   approach also provided discipline because there was a pre-agreed program of needed, and
   complementary reforms. However, because progress was not always even across all areas, the
   operation could better have been designed to allow slower progress in some areas to be
   compensated with actions in others, as long as the overall program remained on-track. This
   would allow for out-performance to matter, and would remove the power of bottlenecks in the
   hands of bureaucratic groups.

   Development policy lending works well when based on the Government's own priorities and
   when the Government owns the process.

   However, they then become vulnerable to changes in government and political instability. Civil
   society outreach can be effective in ensuring the sustainability of the reform program. This was
   pioneered during the PAL program under the 2004-2007 CAS. It resulted in better policy
   dialogue and improved outcomes.

   Even when program extends over a period of years, it is important to be realistic on what
   can be accomplished during this period.

   The typical three year horizon of a medium-term framework lends itself to the expectation that
   reforms may be fully completed in a three year period. While in some cases this may be true, in
   many areas it will take much more time (five to ten years) to fully complete the reform agenda.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
   The Borrower`s Evaluation

                              1. Formulation/Evaluation of Objectives

           At the request of the Government of Ukraine, the World Bank made the decision to
   support the GoU medium-term program by providing PAL-2 in 2002-05.
           The general goal of PAL-2 included support of the specific accomplishments made in
   the context of the GoU restructuring reform program with a focus on five thematic areas: fiscal
   discipline improvement, state regulatory policies, ownership rights, public sector accountability,


                                                - 29 -

social and environmental risks management. The attainment of the following objectives under
PAL-2 was planned:

        In the area of fiscal discipline
-- reducing consolidated budget arrears;
-- reducing budget arrears;
-- improving payment discipline in the collection of electricity and gas bills;

        In the area of regulatory environment
-- ensuring further improvement of the entrepreneurial environment;
-- streamlining corporate governance;
-- improving the legal and regulatory framework for the vital sectors (farming, energy,
communications, finance, pension system);
-- promoting Ukraine`s WTO accession;

        In the area of ownership rights
-- changing the form of ownership and organizational pattern in the farming sector;
-- increasing competitiveness in industry and improving export activities on the basis of
transparent money privatization of industrial and energy companies;
-- using a procedure in bankruptcy to facilitate the restructuring of enterprises and banks and
promote economic growth;

      In the area of improving performance of the public sector and assuring its
accountability
-- strengthening the system of budget implementation and inter-governmental fiscal relations
for the purpose of enhancing financial management, improving the standard of services and
contributing to economic growth;
-- improving efficiency of the use of public resources;
-- creating an effective and transparent system of public revenue;

      In the area of social and environmental risks management
-- implementing a financially and socially viable pension system;
-- raising the standard of social assistance;
-- improving the financial viability and standard of healthcare services and education;
-- bringing order to the system of social and occupational privileges and benefits designed for
social security and greater efficiency of use of public funds.




                                              - 30 -

                                  2. Attainment of Objectives

        The Pal-2 objectives were to be attained in the five areas through:

In the area of fiscal discipline improvement:
-- reducing consolidated budget arrears, in particular by eliminating wage arrears and
reducing unsettled social benefit arrears by 65%, compared to Jan.1, 2000; reducing all other
arrears (outstanding payables) by 80%, compared to Jan.1, 2000;
-- reducing budget arrears, in particular through the absence of a net increase in active tax
arrears without using a tax amnesty as of Jan.1, 2002 in the non-energy sector and as of Jan.1,
2003 in the energy sector; implementing a short-term action plan for improving fiscal discipline
in the energy sector. The Plan includes the following: (a) submission to parliament of the draft
law    On Recovery of Late Payment Fines for Utility Services, (b) local governments`
obligation, as a matter of law, to reimburse utility companies for the tariffs for utilities that do
not cover economically justifiable costs, (c) approval by the CoM of the list of environmentally
hazardous enterprises, identifying the environmental emergency reserve and financial resources
for each enterprise, (d) development, and assuring the efficiency, of procedures for reimbursing
consumers for the supply of water and heat of low quality or in quantities smaller than
entered in the bill, and (e) prohibition of provision of privileges for electricity payment and/or
tariffs to individual business entities and/or sectors, except for housing and communal
companies.; approval by the CoM and publication of a comprehensive action plan (specifying
the dates of the activities) whose implementation will lead to the solvency of fuel and energy
companies and eliminate the backlog of tax arrears and/or other payment obligations; resolving
the problem of arrears in payment for electricity and gas, specifically: (a) effectiveness of the
law passed by parliament on readjustment of debts in the energy sector and (b) mandatory
involvement of enterprises in which the State has a controlling interest, in the readjustment of
debts, as prescribed by the said law;

In the area of regulatory environment:
-- ensuring further improvement of the entrepreneurial environment, in particular: establishing
a base level for assessment of the entrepreneurial environment by examining the cost of the
conduct of business throughout all oblasts (regions) of Ukraine; carrying out pilot projects in
two oblasts regarding methods of simplification of the post-filing procedures (registration with
tax authorities, obtaining of all permits, elimination of re-registration requirements, etc.);
developing an action plan based on the pilot project outputs for the purpose of further
improving/simplifying the post-filing procedures nationwide;
-- streamlining corporate governance, in particular: finalizing a quality draft law on joint stock
companies and a quality draft law on securities and stock exchange; making the decision that
the companies whose shares and bonds are listed at traders should follow international
accounting standards; revising the procedure of certification of auditors to assure a high
standard of auditing in accordance with international standards on auditing; doing a study on
the issues of management, motivation, accounting, auditing of state-owned enterprises (SOE)
and disclosure of information on their operations; carrying on the introduction of the new Land
Code in compliance with the subsidiary laws necessary for this introduction;



                                              - 31 -

-- improving the legal and regulatory framework for the financial sector, specifically:
implementing the agreed-on schedule of adoption of the bank supervision principle of lending
to connected parties; establishing a procedure that will guarantee the conduct of external audit
by all commercial banks in accordance with ISA; continuation of the implementation of the
Memorandum of Understanding of July 21, 2003 regarding improvement of operations of the
Savings Bank; an independent regulatory body has been set up for non-banking financial
institutions in compliance with the Law On Financial Services and State Regulation of
Financial Services Markets, with the appropriate financing being provided.
-- promoting Ukraine`s WTO accession, in particular: developing a regulatory framework for
the system of standardization, origin confirmation and accreditation (setting up of a single
accreditation body, approval of 11 technical regulations based on European directives; putting
laws and subsidiary laws in the area of copyright and related rights into effect); holding a public
awareness campaign addressing Ukraine`s WTO accession, including coverage of these issues
in the mass media and on the Internet; adopting 150 national standards harmonized with
international ad European ones; developing a framework in accordance with TRIPS
requirements;

In the area of property rights:
-- changing the form of ownership and organizational pattern in the farming sector, in
particular: effectiveness of the law that provides the legal basis for creating a uniform system of
registration of ownership rights in land and real state within a single body; with WB assistance,
examining the quality of issuing of titles to land and real estate; issuing of a total of 3.4 million
land titles;
-- further progress in the transparent privatization of large energy enterprises, which covers
the following: involving a financial advisor to carry out the privatization of the rest of state
energy distributing companies and floating a privatization tender; making further progress in
completing an unqualified audit of 2004 consolidated financial accounts of national stock
company NAFTOGAZ in accordance with international financial reporting standards, proof of
which is the accomplishment of the following by the end of 2003: (a) physical valuation of
inventories; (b) professional assessment of gas and oil resources, (c) professional assessment of
the "true market value" of property, plant and equipment;
-- introducing a restructuring procedure and/or a procedure in bankruptcy for banks and
other enterprises, in particular: bankruptcy proceedings to be initiated in respect to 17
enterprises from he list of 63 worst tax debtors and then in respect to 10 enterprises from the
list of 20 worst tax debtors, against whom bankruptcy proceedings may be initiated; making
material progress in the liquidation of the UKRAINA bank, including the full payment of
funds to retail depositors and starting the transparent sale of basic assets on a competitive
basis;

In the area of improvement of performance of the public sector and assuring its
accountability:
-- ensuring transparency of the budget, in particular: compliance with the formula in allocating
inter-governmental transfers to the oblasts, cities and rayons in accordance with the
methodology updated by the CoM in 2002 in the preparation of the 2004 State Budget;
completion of development of the draft methodology of systemic approach to allocation of



                                               - 32 -

subventions from the sate budget for investment projects; development of a system of external
supervision of the flow of funds of the Pension Fund; development of a plan for consolidation
of control over collection of contributions to the social funds and the Pension Fund, within a
single body; completion of vertical centralization of reporting of social funds in each social
fund, development of a unified base of accrual of contributions and a unified database of
insured persons for all social funds;
-- improving efficiency of the use of public resources through implementing the Action Plan of
the Report on Assessment of the Financial System of Ukraine, specifically: the approval and
publication by the CoM of the White Book of Internal Financial Control; establishment of an
external Supervisory Board to oversee the operations of the State Tax Administration;
introduction of the Kazna (Treasury) system across all oblast departments of the State Treasury
for the state budget, 12 of which also cover local budgets;
-- improving efficiency of the use of public resources through implementing the Action Plan of
the Report on Assessment of Procurement in Ukraine, specifically: reduction of instances of
use of a noncompetitive procurement procedure (single source procurement) to 25% of total
number and to 35% of total value of contracts, given the amounts of all signed contracts,
except contracts with state and natural monopolies; approval by the CoM of the strategy of
institutional development of the public procurement system; introducing a public procurement
page on the Internet to cover the database related to advertisements of bids, invitations to
bidders and bidder pre-qualification announcements;
-- putting in place a more efficient tax system and state revenue system, in particular:
reduction of tax exemptions and privileges for various sectors of the economy by at least 55%
of the value of a year for the budget as of Jan. 1, 2002, estimated on the basis of relevant
extension of the tax base;

In the area of social and environmental risks management:
-- attaining successes in building a legislative, technical and institutional framework for
pension system reform: passage of the Law of Ukraine On Mandatory State Pension Insurance
; passage of the Law of Ukraine On Non-state Pension Security; transfer of the function of
pension awarding to the bodies of the Pension Fund of Ukraine throughout the country and
change-over to a system of awarding new pensions on the basis of data of individualized
records; development of a central database of insured persons and issuing of three million
certificates of mandatory state social insurance;
-- improving the targeting of benefits and raising their standard: reduction (from 11 to 5) of
social programs to target exclusively the most vulnerable groups of the population; switch-over
to a system of provision of targeted entitlements in cash to reimburse for the cost of household
fuel and liquefied gas; submission to parliament of the draft law On Social Services, which
provides for diversified provision of such services, including their delivery by both public and
private entities and social organizations;
-- improving the educational system: approval of an action plan designed for the
implementation of the National Education Development Doctrine (2002-04), drawn up with
due consideration for financial support and the need for          improving educational system
efficiency; approval of plans for optimization of the rural school network in three oblasts;
approval of a regulatory framework intended for updating the existing program of lending to
students of higher educational institutions;



                                              - 33 -

-- improving the healthcare system: preparation of a financial and economic review of the
proposed medical insurance system; development and approval of regional plans for
optimization of the network of rural medical centers in Chernigiv, Kirovograd and Kharkiv
oblasts; approval of the 2002-03 plans for implementing the strategy of control of TB and
HIV/AIDS epidemics;
-- continuing revising the existent system of special benefits and allowances: provision of
benefits to all, without exception, government employees on the basis of income level;
restriction of the right to housing and utilities allowances only to immediate members of
households eligible for such allowances;
-- contributing to improvement of the environment through a more efficient system of
environmental regulation: approval by a CoM Regulation of: (a) indexation of pollution
charges by 0.8 times in 2003 and 1.5 times (cumulatively) by Jan.1, 2004 to partially offset the
loss of real value since 1996 due to inflation, and (b) change-over to a system of yearly
indexation of pollution charges; launching a pilot program of issuing of integrated pollution
permits at eight selected enterprises.

Attainment of the said objectives included adoption of a new (or amendments to the
existing) legislative and regulatory framework:

In the financial discipline area:
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Satisfaction of Chargor Claims and Registration of
Charges;
-- submission to parliament of the draft Law of Ukraine On Common and Double Warehouse
Receipts;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Ratification of the UN Convention on Assignment
of Rights to Monetary Claim in International Trade;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Ratification of the Convention on International
Rights to Movable Equipment;

In the regulatory system area:
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Joint Stock companies;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Amendments to Article 7 of the Law of Ukraine On
Banks and Banking;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine On Securities
and Stock Exchange;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Security Derivatives;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Amendments to Some Legislative Acts of Ukraine
Concerning Intellectual Property;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Distribution of Copies of and Audio and Video
Works and Sound Records;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine On
Confirmation of Conformity;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine On Auditing;

In the ownership rights area:



                                           - 34 -

-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On State Registration of Rights in Real Estate;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Readjustment of Indebtedness Resulting from
Partial Payments for Energy Supplies;

In the area of public sector performance and its accountability:
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Personal Income Tax;
-- approval by the CoM of the Concept of Development of Public Internal Financial Control for
2005-09;
-- approval by the CoM of the Strategy of Institutional Development of the Public Procurement
System for a Medium Term;

Social and environmental risks management:
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Non-state Pension Security;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Mandatory State Pension Insurance;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Mandatory State Social Health Insurance;
-- submission to parliament of the draft Law of Ukraine On Social Services;
-- passage of the draft Law of Ukraine On Replacing the System of benefits by Target
Compensation Payments.

                            3. Key Factors Impacting the Project

     The great attention given to the openness of decision-making in the implementation of the
Project gained public support for the achievement of the objectives of the Project and the
objectives of the medium-term action program of the Cabinet of Ministers.
       At the same time, the process of consideration and adoption of the bills designed for
improvement of the economic, regulatory and social environment in Ukraine was complicated
due to the dialog between the executive and legislative branches being sometimes insufficiently
constructive.

                                   4. Viability of the Project

       The CoM and the WB, when working on PAL-2, reached a qualitatively new level in
designing the restructuring operations that are supported by the WB in Ukraine. Thus, in the
context of the said work, both sides, just as in generating PAL-1, gave up a merely sectoral
approach to the restructuring of the economy of Ukraine. PAL-2 is an example of a
comprehensive approach to the treatment of issues of the national economy and society and
provided for carrying out activities in the five areas.
     The obvious advantages of PAL-2 include the fact that this Project, just as its predecessor
PAL-1, was based on the medium-term program of the CoM, whose implementation was
supported by a WB loan. This program was described in the Letter of Development Policy the
CoM forwarded to the WB in the summer of 2003.
       The said design of PAL allows it to continue to be the most effective vehicle for
supporting the medium-term reform program of the Government of Ukraine for the years to
come.
       The new approach to cooperation taken by the CoM and the WB in working on the



                                              - 35 -

Project, has demonstrated its value in practice, proof of which is the successful implementation
by the CoM of the second stage of PAL-2 in 2005.
        The positive experience of joint work in the preparation and implementation of PAL-2
has paved the way for a new adjustment project. The PAL has now organically converted into
Development Policy Loan (DPL), whose first stage was complete this year. As a result, US$
250,631,850 was transferred to the state budget of Ukraine. Thus, PALs were and continue to
be a major financial instrument for implementation of WB country assistance strategy (CAS.)

                    5. Project Preparation and Implementation by the WB

        The Project is a major financial instrument for CAS implementation.
        At the preparation, evaluation and implementation stages, the WB maintained
permanent working relations with the Borrower through its country office in Ukraine, in
particular during the negotiations and meetings, which facilitated attainment of established
objectives under the Project.
     The WB took the necessary steps to attract international technical assistance, in particular
the grant of the governments of Japan and the Netherlands to support Project preparation.
        In view of the above and given the successful implementation of the Project, the
Borrower rates the WB activities on Project preparation and implementation high satisfactory.

                 6. Project Preparation and Implementation by the Borrower

     The attainment by the Borrower of all benchmarks in the five areas of the Project in full
and within the stipulated time is rated most satisfactory.

                                  7. Assessment of the Results

     PAL-1 and PAL-2 have had a material impact on the growth of the economy of Ukraine
and poverty reduction due to substantial progress in the following areas:
(1) elimination of pension and wage arrears in the public sector; (2) improvement of the
business environment; (3) carrying out a large-scale land and property reform, in particular the
adoption of the Land Code and subsidiary laws; (4) budget area reform ­ transparency of the
budgetary process has been increased and the Budget Code passed; (5) increase in
capitalization, improvement of stableness and transparency of banks and non-banking financial
institutions, including due to better regulation; (6) approval of the new methodology of social
assistance targeting; (7) passage of the legislative framework for the three pillar pension
system; (8) abolishment of tax breaks and exemptions; (9) efforts for reforming public
administration and the civil service.

In accordance with the policy areas, the following results have been achieved under the
Project:

A. Fiscal Discipline

        Pension and wage areas in the public sector have been settled. Outstanding payables



                                              - 36 -

have been substantially reduced: they stood at UAH 733.8 million as of 01.01.2005, i.e down
75.3% over 01.01.2000.
        Since early 2003, national stock company NAFTOGAZ UKRAINY has shown an
improvement in the payment of taxes and impositions (mandatory payments) to the state
budget. The company currently meets all of its tax obligations and is gradually repaying its tax
arrears accrued from 2000 through 2002.
        In the first six months of the year 2005, the company transferred to the state budget
UAH 5,720.8 mln. in taxes and impositions out of charged UAH 5, 412.6 million.
        There is no net increase in active tax arrears without the use of a tax amnesty as of Jan.
1, 2002 in the non-energy sector and as of Jan.1, 2003 in the energy sector.
        The payment discipline of enterprises of the fuel and energy sector has improved, with
the tax debt to the state budget having been considerably reduced.
        A short-term action plan for improving fiscal discipline in the energy sector has been
launched. The Law of Ukraine On ·ancelation of the Law On Temporary Prohibition to
Recover Fine for Untimely Payment of Utilities by Citizens has been drafted and submitted to
Cabinet of Ministers. The issue of compensation to utility companies for tariffs that do not
cover economically justified costs, has been resolved: pursuant to Article 191 of the Economic
Code of Ukraine, executive bodies and local self-governing bodies, when setting fixed prices
under which business entities cannot earn a profit, are required by law to provide subsidies to
such entities.
        The Law of Ukraine On Housing has been adopted. Artticle 31 of this Law provides
that local governments, which set tariffs for housing and utility services at a rate below the rate
of economically justified cost of their production, are required to reimburse the business entity
for the difference between the established rate and the economically justified cost at the
expense of the relevant budgets.
        The government has approved the list of environmentally hazardous enterprises,
defining the environmental emergency reserve and financial resources for each of the
enterprises.
        Pursuant to the Law of Ukraine On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine On the Electric
Power Industry of 06.19.03, which establishes the rights of energy suppliers regarding
suspension of free power supply and the procedure for financing the environmental
emergency reserve of power supply, the following regulatory documents have been developed:
CoM Regulation #2052 of 12.26.03, On Making a List of Electric Power Consumers and their
Equipment for Which Environmental Reserve of Power Supply Should Be Established, and
Ministry of Fuel and Energy Order #18 of 01.17.02, On Approval of the Guidelines for
Drawing Up a Statement of Environmental, Emergency and Technological Reserve of Power
Supply to Consumers. Under the Law of Ukraine On the 2004 State Budget of Ukraine, UAH
37.0 mln. was allocated out of the special fund of the Ministry for Emergency under the item
"provision of loans      to pay for environmental reserve of power supply in the case of
non-payment or partial payment for consumed electricity by consumers that have such
reserve."
On 04.29.04, CoM Regulation #537, On Approval of the Procedure of Lending (Financing)
from the State Budget of Payment for Environmental Reserve of Power Supply in the Case of
Non-payment or Partial Payment for Consumed Electricity by Consumers that Have Such
Reserve."



                                             - 37 -

     The government has adopted the Regulation On Approval of the Procedure for Providing
the Population with Services on Centralized Water and Heat Supply and Waste Water.
       CoM Regulation # 795 of 06.10.02 On Ensuring Competitiveness of Manufacturers of
Primary Aluminum, Its Alloys and Titanium has ceased to be effective. Thus, the provision of
privileges for payment for electricity and/or tariffs to some businesses or/and sectors, except
housing and communal services, has been prohibited.
       The government has adopted and published a comprehensive action plan for ensuring
the financial stability of fuel and energy enterprises.
       The Law of Ukraine On Measures for Ensuring Stable Operation of Enterprisess of the
Fuel and Energy Sector has been passed.




                                              - 38 -

        B. Regulatory Environment

        The base standard of assessment of the entrepreneurial environment by examining the
cost of the conduct of business throughout all oblasts of Ukraine, has been established
        Pilot projects of simplification of the post-filing procedures (registration with tax
authorities, obtaining of all permits and elimination of re-registration requirements, etc.) have
been implemented in the cities of Ivano-Frankivsk and Kryvy Rig.
        For the purpose of further simplifying the registration of entrepreneurial activities and
improving/simplifying the post-filing procedures nationwide, an action plan based on the pilot
project outputs was developed to provide a base for the preparation and approval by the CoM
of Regulation #321-p of 08.08.05, On the Immediate Measures for Improving the Situation
with Prompt Revision of Regulatory Acts and Improvement of the Registration and Permission
Procedure.
        Corporate governance has been improved. The Draft Law of Ukraine On Joint Stock
Companies has been submitted to the parliment. The draft Law of Ukraine On Securities and
Stock Exchange has passed by parliament.
        The new Land Code of Ukraine continues to be introduced in accordance with the
subsidiary laws necessary for this. As of 06.01.05, pursuant to the Land Code, 25 laws of
Ukraine, 24 government regulations and 24 departmental legal and regulatory documents have
been adopted.
        Efforts have been made to improve the regulatory framework in the financial sector.
The implementation of the agreed-on schedule of implementation of Basel key principles of
connected lending has been assured. In particular, there has been prepared, and submitted to
parliament for consideration, draft amendments to the Law of Ukraine On Bank and Banking
in its part concerning true owners of a bank and the origin of sources of funds directed toward
acquiring shares (stakes) of a bank, and organization of external audit of a bank; the legal and
regulatory framework of the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) that governs connected-party
transactions of banks, has been updated. There have been also improved the procedures of
certification of auditors of banks for the purpose of conducting audits of banks by them in
compliance with ISA.
        The implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the CoM, NBU
and the open stock company Savings Bank (hereinafter the Memorandum) on July 21, 2003, is
nearing completion. The activities carried out under the Memorandum have provided the
groundwork for the bank`s stable operation: the regulatory capital has increased, asset loss
provisions have been established in full. The Savings Bank observed operational restrictions
concerning the amount of its impaired assets as well as attraction of household savings. The
bank invested available funds mostly in securities and inter-bank credits. According to the
NBU, the Savings Bank has fulfilled the obligations of the Memorandum on the whole.
     The State Commission for Regulation of Financial Services Markets has been set up as an
authorized agency of the executive branch for state regulation of the non-banking financial
sector along with the NBU and the Securities Commission. Since its inception, the SCRFSM
has accomplished the following:
        1. A subsidiary statutory base in the sphere of regulation of financial services markets
has been developed through adoption of both framework (general) and special-purpose (by



                                              - 39 -

type of non-banking financial institutions) legal and regulatory documents as well as in the
sphere of regulation of SCRFSM activities in effecting permission procedures, overseeing and
law enforcement (licensing, prudential supervision, on-site and off-site inspections);
        2. Development and approval of a list of bills, draft Presidential enactments and CoM
regulations have been initiated for the purpose of optimization of the legislation defining the
legal regime of operation of financial services markets in Ukraine;
        3. The State Register of Financial Institutions has been introduced and its formation by
major type of non-banking financial institutions is complete;
        4. The List of legal entities entitled to provide financial services and registered with the
SCRFSM has been put in place;
        5. The Register of auditors entitled to carry out audits of financial institutions has been
put in place;
        6. A set of measures have been taken to efficiently counter money laundering and
financing of terrorism through the non-banking financial sector in accordance with FATF
recommendations;
        7. A Memorandum of Interaction and Information Exchange has been signed between
and by the NBU and the SCRFSM as financial regulators of the relevant financial services
markets;
        8. Membership in the International Association of Insurers Supervision and the
International Organization of Pension Supervision has been obtained, and relationships have
been established with regulators in other countries.
        As of 06.01.05, the State Register of Financial institutions, which is maintained by the
SCRFSM, includes: 396 insurers, 672 credit unions, 269 pawn-shops, 31 private pension funds,
33 administrators of private pension funds, 57 financial companies.
        Progress has been made toward WTO accession. In particular, 16 technical procedures
were approved in Ukraine as of 06.01.05, which are based on the New Approach, and 2,530
national standards harmonized with international and European were adopted. With the
adoption of the technical procedures in Ukraine, state control over the bodies responsible for
conformity assessment will not be exercised. According to European experts, the accreditation
system in Ukraine meets international and European standards, in particular the requirements to
independence and separation of the accreditation, standardization and certification functions.

C. Ownership Rights

        The Law of Ukraine On State Registration of Proprietary Rights in Real Estate and
Related Restrictions was passed on July 1, 2004, according to which the Unified State Register
of Rights will be in place in Ukraine starting on January 1, 2006. The Register is based on the
data of official accounting of land parcels of all types of ownership and the real estate located
on them, registration of proprietary rights in immovable properties, related restrictions and
transactions on real estate.
        Further progress has been made in completing an audit of consolidated financial
accounts of NAFTOGAZ UKRAINY without qualifications for 2004. A valuation of
inventories, professional assessment of gas and oil resources and professional assessment of the
true market value of property, plant and equipment were carried out. As of 06.01.05, the work
associated with the auditing of the 2004 consolidated financial accounts of NAFTOGAZ



                                                - 40 -

UKRAINY in compliance with international financial reporting standards was completed.
        Bankruptcy proceedings were initiated in respect to 17 enterprises from he list of 63
worst tax debtors and then in respect to 10 enterprises from the list of 20 worst tax debtors,
against whom bankruptcy proceedings may be initiated.

D. Public Sector Performance and Accountability

     Transparency of the budget has been ensured. Under the Law of Ukraine On the 2004
State Budget, the State Budget for 2004 was formed in compliance with the formula in
allocating inter-governmental transfers to the oblasts, cities and rayons in accordance with the
methodology updated by the CoM in 2002. Also, pursuant to Article 105 of the draft Law of
Ukraine On Amendments to the Budget Code of Ukraine (Registration # 3563), the main
principles of allocation of subventions from the sate budget for investment projects have been
defined.
     The draft Law of Ukraine On a Single Social Contribution has been submitted to
parliament. This bill provides that the functions similar to all Funds will be consolidated within
one body (the Pension Fund of Ukraine is proposed being such a body), specifically:
accounting of all payers of a single social contribution, ensuring the collection of a single social
contribution, its accounting, control of the timely and adequate payment of the contribution as
well as recovery of arrears on the payment of this contribution.
        A system of external supervision of the flow of funds of the Pension Fund has been
developed. Starting on January 1, 2004, the Savings Bank began providing electronic data on
the payment of funds to the Pension Fund budget directly to the State Treasury.
        The use of public resources has been improved through the implementation of the
Action Plan for Assessment of the Financial System of Ukraine. The CoM in 2005 approved
the Regulation On Approval of the Concept of Public Internal Financial Control Development
.
        An external Supervisory Board to oversee the operations of the State Tax
Administration was set up.
The Kazna (Treasury) system was introduced across all oblast departments of the State
Treasury for the state budget, 12 of which also cover the local budgets;
        Efficiency of the use of public resources has been improved through implementing the
Action Plan of the Report on Assessment of Procurement in Ukraine. In particular, a strategy
of streamlining of the public procurement system and government commission has been
developed. As a result, the number of single source procurement procedures in 2004 stood at
11.7 % of total number of procedures. The percentage of the price characteristic of the
procedure was 21%.
        The cost of tax concessions, given the rules of Law of Ukraine # 2505 of 25.03.05, On
Amendments to the Law of Ukraine On the 2005 State Budget, and other legislative acts
rescinded in 2002-05, stands at 62.5% of total concessions granted in 2002.
         Successes have been attained in building a legislative, technical and institutional
framework for pension system reform: passage of the Law of Ukraine On Mandatory State
Pension Insurance.
         Under that Law, the bodies of the Pension Fund maintain records of all insurants and
individualized records of insurance contributions; develop and implement a unified



                                             - 41 -

computerized database of insured persons.
          A personal file of an insurant is retained at the Pension Fund throughout the life of the
person, and after his/her death for 75 years on paper and electronic media provided there are
conditions for assuring the identity of paper and electronic form of the document.
          The function of pension awarding has been assigned to the bodies of the Pension
Fund of Ukraine throughout the country, with new pensions being now authorized based on the
data of individualized records.
          A central insurant database is now in place and 15,588 m certificates have been
issued. As of 06.01.05, 25 m forms of primary records for 2004 were entered into the said
database. 29.3 mln. personal files, in which insurant data are collected, were opened at the
national base of individualized records.
     Using one-stop shop method, there has been introduced electronic exchange of data
between the Unified State Register of Legal Entities and Individuals as Business Entities and
the Unified Register of Insurers.
       The stable provision of government assistance to families with children and government
social assistance to low-income families has been assured. There have been no arrears here in
the past three years
       For the purpose of improving the targeting of government social assistance, a
differentiated level of provision of subsistence wage (guaranteed minimum wage) was
introduced in early 2004. This level for able-bodied persons is set at UAH 80, for incapacitated
persons at UAH 110, and for the disabled UAH 115. In 2003, the level for all categories was
UAH 80.
     In 2005, the levels of subsistence wage necessary for awarding social benefits to
low-income families, are: for able-bodied persons -- UAH 80 to 100, for incapacitated persons
-- UAH 120 to 140, and for the disabled -- UAH 130 to 150.
       According to the regional welfare offices, 472.4 thousand low-income families were
recipients of social benefits in May of 2005. From January through May of 2005, the amount of
charged social benefits was UAH 482.3 m whereas the payment of UAH 454.6 was actually
financed.
       The social assistance programs are being reduced (from 11 to 5) so as to target
exclusively the most vulnerable sections of society. 946.4 thousand families with children were
recipients of benefits as of 06.01.05. In early 2005, the amount of charged social assistance
was UAH 447.9 m, with the payment of UAH 445.5 m being actually financed.
       The system of cashing out targeted benefits to citizens to reimburse for household fuel
and liquefied gas is now in place. Under the benefits authorized in 2005 to purchase fuel and
liquefied gas, 649.9 thousand households received cash, or 100,5% (excessive 0,5% are those
families, which were assigned with the benefits in 2004, but actually received them in 2005) of
total households from among those eligible for this assistance. From January through May of
2005, such benefits were authorized to 503.8 thousand households, including 70.6 thousand
households in May.
       The Ukrainian Parliament passed the Law of Ukraine On Social Services, which
provides for the diversified provision of such benefits by both public and private entities and
social organizations. Pursuant to this Law, a series of subsidiary laws have been passed.
       The system of education has been streamlined. In particular, an action plan designed for
the implementation of the National Education Development Doctrine (2002-04), drawn up with



                                              - 42 -

due consideration for financial support and the need for improving educational system
efficiency, was approved. In 2003, a Presidential enactment approved the National Education
Development Doctrine (NEDD.) CoM Regulation # 1223 of 08.19.02 approved the activities
related to the NEDD implementation. The NEDD activities are being financed from the state
budget within the appropriations provided for the Ministry of Science and Education under the
relevant budget programs as well as using local budget funds and other sources.
     A financial and economic forecast has been prepared relative to adoption of mandatory
sate social health insurance.
     A new language of the draft Law of Ukraine On Mandatory State Social Health
Insurance is being developed. At the same time, under the TACIS project on healthcare
financing and management, work is underway in the pilot regions (Popilnya rayon in Zhytomyr
oblast and Zolochiv rayon in Kharkiv oblast) to prepare the ground for introducing the health
insurance system and gain the necessary experience of effective use of financial resources,
including a new system of payment for medical services, which is based on procurement of
these services on a contract basis from their providers (health institutions) for the needs of the
population at the expense of the local budgets.
        Successes have been scored in the development and updating of the statutory and
institutional base for formulating and implementing state policies of TB and HIV/AIDS control.
        Work has begun on the actualization and detailing of the National Program of HIV
Infection Prevention and the Medical Treatment and Care of the HIV Positive and People with
AIDS for 2004-08, as well as on the development of a national HIV/AIDS monitoring and
assessment system. Material progress has been made in the medical treatment of AIDS patients.
According to the roadmap, by year`s end 3,050 persons will be receiving treatment, compared
to less than 1,000 earlier in 2005.
        The activities under the National TB Control Program for 2002-05 are well underway.
A national target program of NB control for 2006-10 is being drawn up. It aims to provide
control of the epidemic situation and ensure its subsequent improvement by applying the DOTS
method recommended by WHO.
        Regional plans for optimization of the rural healthcare network have been developed
and approved. The strategic course of development of primary healthcare based on the general
practice of family medicine has been identified. 20% of the country`s population are receiving
primary healthcare from family doctors. As of 06.01.05, there were 2,732 health centers
operating on a family medicine basis, 85% of which are in rural areas.
     Mechanisms for reform of the system of remuneration for health workers are being
developed. In this context, the draft Law of Ukraine On the Healthcare Fund has been
submitted to parliament and the draft Law of Ukraine On the General Practitioner (Family
Doctor) is under preparation.
        It is planned to submit a draft regulation on liberalization of licensing of private medical
practice to the CoM. Also, a draft concept of the Program of Primary Healthcare Development
on the Basis of General Health Practice (Family Medicine) for 2006-10 has been prepared.
                                           8. Prospects

     The PAL converted into DPL will continue to be the most important element of
cooperation between Ukraine and the World Bank and the new WB CAS in 2004-07.
        Coordination and control of DPL generation and implementation will remain the



                                              - 43 -

   responsibility of the Working Groups set up in accordance with the three areas of the new
   adjustment project.
           The general coordination of DPL will be carried out, just as before, by the Ministry of
   Economy.

                                       9. The Main Lessons Learned

        Due to the consistent pursuit of economic reform policy by the CoM and the productive
   joint work of central executive bodies of Ukraine and the WB, Ukraine has been able to attain
   all the objectives of PAL-2 and obtain, in December 2003 and June 2005, US$ 250 million in
   loan funds from the WB.
           Under the Project, the CoM has achieved successes in the economic and social area, in
   particular:
           1. Pension arrears have been settled and budget arrears on back wages have been
   substantially reduced;
           2. The payment situation in the energy sector has improved ­ collection of bills for
   electricity and natural gas consumed has increased;
           3. Effective measures have been taken to improve the entrepreneurial environment;
           4. The process of change of types of ownership and creation of new organizational
   entities in the farming sector went on; work continued on the privatization of large industrial
   and energy enterprises;
           5. Efforts continued to make the budget process more transparent and the pension
   system more efficient.
           The PAL implementation has contributed to the improvement of the existing interface
   between the Government of Ukraine and the public.
           The efficient implementation of PAL was facilitated by well-coordinated teamwork, the
   desire and readiness for cooperation and the availability of the expert working groups of both
   the WB and the Government of Ukraine.
   The experience of PAL implementation points to the need for further consolidation of joint
   efforts in the implementation of economic reform with an emphasis on greater fiscal discipline
   in the public sector, further improvement of an environment conductive to business and
   investment, creation of conditions for Ukraine`s WTO and EU accession, strengthening of
   ownership rights in the agrarian sector and the assuring of greater transparency of privatization
   and the budget process.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

   ICR Team:
   Mark Davis (Task Team Leader)
   Viktoria Siryachenko (DPL Coordinator)




                                                 - 44 -

Comments Received from:
Asad Alam (Sector Manager)




                              - 45 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


 Thematic                 PAL Issue                 PAL Achievements           Expected Results Under The
 Focus                                                                                  DPL Program
 1. Fiscal and    Mutual Offsets account      Budget revenues collected only   Budget and sub-national budget
 Financial        for a quarter of budget     in cash                          revenues collected in cash.
 Discipline       revenues
                  Inter-enterprise arrears    IEA at 49% of GDP                Elimination of IEA to immaterial
                  (IEA) at 91% of GDP                                          percent

                  Barter constitutes 33% of   Barter reduced to 2%            Barter eliminated as an issue
                  gross sales
                  Budget arrears at ~4% of    Pension and wage arrears from Budget arrears eliminated as an
                  GDP                         budget eliminated.              issue

                  Cash collection on energy Cash collection over 90%          Cash collection at international
                  at 7.7% of billings                                         norms

 2. Regulatory    Weak regulations in         All financial institutions       Groundwork for WTO and EU
 Framework        banking sector              comply with ISA and IFRS         integration set

                  Weak corporate              Auditor certification in         All publicly traded companies
                  governance framework        compliance with ISA              comply with ISA and IFRS

                  Management of national      Restructuring plan for Savings  Savings Bank returned to
                  Savings Bank a concern      Bank begins to implement        operational and fin. health

                  Weak regulation of          Regulator of non-bank fin.       Risk indicator of non-bank
                  non-bank financial          institutions established         financial institutions reduced
                  institutions
                  Electricity tariffs below   Financial discipline plan goes   Energy sector solvency and level
                  cost recovery levels        into effect                      of investment improved

 WTO              WTO accession stalled       WTO accession restarted         Ukraine WTO membership

 3. Property      Land reform is stalled      Adoption of Land Code and        Single registry (cadastre) for land
 Rights                                       issuance of 10 mil. land titles  established and functional

                                                                               The legislature as a basis for land
                                                                               market passed

                  Non-transparent             Privatization Advisory Council   Privatization quickened and
                  privatization endemic       (PAG) formed and improves        process recognized
                                              transparency                     internationally for enhanced
                                                                               transparency

                  Energy sector privatization 6 Obleenergos privatized and    Adoption and initiation of a
                  of track                    Debt Resolution Law drafted     strategic action plan for further
                                                                              ownership transformation and
                                                                              increasing private sector
                                                                              participation in the energy sector

 4. Public Sector Lack of accountability of   Single Treasury Account          Real time checks and balances
 Efficiency and   public funds                established and all non-pension  established for Pension Fund
 Accountability                               soc. funds under STA             flows




                                                    - 46 -

                 Lack of legal and            Public procurement law passed,    Strategy for institutional
                 institutional framework      strategy for national             development of the procurement
                 for public procurement       procurement drafted               system under implementation.
                                                                                Public procurement is
                                                                                approaching EU standards

                 Non-transparent              Refined formula based transfer Improved accountability of local
                 discretionary allocation of system to oblasts and             government expenditure
                 local government budget      municipalities                   performance.
                 transfers
                                              Number ministries and agencies
                                              dramatically reduced
4. Public Sector Inefficient and cumbersome Tax exemptions and privileges      Customs, STA, Treasury and KRU
continued        public administration        reduced by 55%, Ukraine near     report to the Ministry of Finance
                                              EU standards on tax base
                 Tax exemptions freely                                         All tax privileges eliminated or
                 given on discretionary basis                                  made explicit under budget. New
                 to select companies                                           tax code enacted

5. Management Pension Reform stalled          Legislation framework for         Mandatory pension system
of social and                                 mandatory and private pension     operational and fiscally sound
environ. Risks                                system in place
                 11 social assistance         Social assistance programs        Targeted housing and communal
                 programs with as many        reduced to 5 and                  services subsidies provided in
                 diff. administrations        administrations combined          cash to recipients

                 Unpaid entitlements of       Social and occupational          Social and occupational privileges
                 social and occupational      privileges income tested for all eliminated and/or fully income
                 privileges 13% of GDP        public employees                 targeted

                 TB/AIDS epidemics            TB/AIDS national strategies      Comprehensive health and
                 growing w/out national       under implementation             education strategies financed and
                 programs to address them                                      under implementation

                 No clear environmental       First steps to meet              Rapid progress to meeting Kyoto
                 policy, especially w/regards environmental policies; fees     conditions
                 to Kyoto                     adjusted, audits undertaken, and
                                              permit system piloted




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




                                      - 48 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 49 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                     No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                         (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year    Count            Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               05/2002                     12    Task Team Leader (1),
                                                 Procurement Specialisit (1),
                                                 Economists (3), Project Offiicers
                                                 (4), Program Assistants (1),
                                                 Extended term consultants (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               05/2002                     28    Task Team Leader (1),
                                                 Procurement Specialist (1),
                                                 Financial Management
                                                 Specialist (1), Sector
                                                 Specialists (11), Economists
                                                 (2), Research Analyst (1),
                                                 Project Officers (6),
                                                 Externded Term Consultants
                                                 (1), Consultant (3), Program
                                                 Assistant (1)

 Supervision
               12/2003 -                   13    Task Team Leader (1),                  S               S
               6/2005*                           Procurement Specialist (1),
                                                 Economists (4), Project
                                                 Officer (3), Extended term
                                                 consultants (2), Consultant
                                                 (1), Program Assistant (1)


 ICR
               11/2005 - 4/2006             1     Task Team Leader (1),
                                                  Extended term consultants
                                                  (1), Consultant (1)

The supervision of this operation was managed on a continuous basis from the field. The ICR mission was
also conducted from the field.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 62.78                            176.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    149.74                             342.4
  Supervision                                52.56                             98.7
  ICR                                            3                              9.1
  Total                                    268.08                             626.6




                                                  - 50 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 51 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 52 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. PAL-2 Program Document



2. PAL-2 Matrix



3. Second Tranche Release Document



4. Comparison Table of PAL I Indicative Benchmarks for PAL II




                                              - 53 -

       Additional Annex 8. PAL Program At-a-Glance


                                                          PAL-I                      PAL-II                      DPL-1
                                                           Sep. `01                 1st tranche
Thematic                   1999                                                     Q4 CY'03
Focus                                                                              2nd tranche                   May `05
                                                                                    Q2 CY'05
Fiscal and      Mutual Offsets (MO)           MO disallowed & tax            Revenues collected only in
Financial       account for a quarter of      collections in cash at 66% of  cash.
Discipline      budget revenues.              tax revenues.

                Inter-enterprise arrears      IEA at 68%.                    IEA at 49%.                IEA continue to decline
                (IEA) at 91% of GDP.                                                                    toward international
                                                                                                        norms.

                Barter at 33% of gross sales. Barter at 17% of gross sales.  Barter at 2.1% of gross    Barter is not an issue.
                                                                             sales.

                Budget arrears at about 4%   By mid-September 2000, the      Wage arrears eliminated,   Budget arrears are not an
                of GDP                       government had completely       social protection arrears  issue.
                                             eliminated pension arrears      reduced by 65% and
                                             which had stood at UAH 1.3      "other" budget arrears
                                             billion at the beginning of the reduced by 80%.
                                             year. It has remained current
                                             ever since.

                                             Pension arrears eliminated.

                Tax exemptions given by       256 CoM Resolutions,           Tax exemptions and         Budget 2005 eliminated
                COM on discretionary basis    granting tax privileges,       privileges reduced by      most remaining tax
                to selected                   cancelled.                     50%.                       exemptions and privileges
                enterprises/sectors.


                                                                                                       The State Treasury (which
                                                                                                       earlier reported to the
                                                                                                       President) has been
                                                                                                       transformed into a
                                                                                                       "government body of pubic
                                                                                                       administration" integrated
                                                                                                       into the Ministry of
                                                                                                       Finance.
                                                                                                       Concept for insurance
                                                                                                       market development and
                                                                                                       regulation adopted.

                                                                             Adoption of a good law on
                                                                             mortgage finance passed

                                                                                                       Beginning 2004 all
                                                                                                       privileged tariffs had been
                                                                                                       eliminated with the
                                                                                                       exception of the OJSC
                                                                                                       Zaporizhya Aluminum
                                                                                                       Plant and Zaporizhya
                                                                                                       Titanium and Magnesium
                                                                                                       Plant, which were



                                                             - 54 -

                                                                                                    subsequently eliminated
                                                                                                    by a CoM Resolution
                                                                                                    dated February 23, 2005.

             Cash collection of electricity Cash collections of energy  Cash collections for
             bills at 7.7% of billings and  bills at 50%.               electricity at over 90% and
             15% of billings in gas.                                    for gas at over 85% of total
                                                                        invoices.

Regulatory    Registration costs - $67,     Registration cost ­ $22,     Cost of Doing Business      Law on Permits adopted in
Framework     business inspections - 16;    business inspections ­12 ;   Survey confirms business    2005
              licenses per firm - 1.9.      licenses per firm ­ 1.5      environment continues to
                                                                         improve.

              Weak framework for
              corporate governance.



                                                                         Auditor certification
                                                                         procedures in compliance
                                                                         with International
                                                                         Standards of Auditing
                                                                         (ISA).

                                                                                                    NBU allowed 5%
                                                                                                    revaluation of the nominal
                                                                                                    exchange rate to fight
                                                                                                    inflation and encourage
                                                                                                    economic diversification.

             Weak regulatory framework in                                Procedures enforced to     Restructuring and/or
             banking sector.                                             ensure all bank external   bankruptcy procedures
                                                                         auditing is compliant with implemented for banks
                                                                         ISA.                       and other enterprises,
                                                                                                    including 10 of the 20
                                                                                                    largest tax debtors

                                                                         NBU compliant with 22 of    .
                                                                         30 Basel Core (BCP)
                                                                         Principles for bank
                                                                         supervision.

              Management of Savings                                     Continued progress on the
              Bank (with 19% of                                         implementation of the MoU
              household deposits) a                                     of July 21, 2003 on the
              systemic source of concern.                               process of improving the
                                                                        performance of the state
                                                                        Savings Bank;

              Weak regulation of natural                                 Regulator of non-bank       An independent regulator
              monopolies & non-bank                                      financial institutions      for non-banking financial
              financial institutions.                                    established                 institutions established as
                                                                                                     per the Law on Financial
                                                                                                     Services and State
                                                                                                     Regulation of Financial
                                                                                                     Service Markets

                                                                                                     The state registry of
                                                                                                     non-banking financial



                                                          - 55 -

                                                                                                         institutions is created.

                                                                           Legal foundation              Independent Regulator
                                                                           established for               established and started to
                                                                           independent regulator of      work.
                                                                           communications industry.

                                         Energy Regulator brings           Financial discipline action Government passage of
                                         electricity tariffs to full cost  plan goes into effect (e.g., Action Plan for Financial
                                         recovery level.                   cutoff policy for            Recovery of the Fuel and
                                                                           non-payment strengthened Energy Sector. Approved by
                                                                           through establishment of     the Cabinet of Ministers on
                                                                           environmental reserve        May 28, 2005 the Action
                                                                           funds while local            Plan represents a
                                                                           governments required to      comprehensive program to
                                                                           cover any gaps created by    bring Ukraine's energy
                                                                           below cost tariffs on        companies to financial
                                                                           housing and communal         solvency, including
                                                                           services).                   enactment of a debt
                                                                                                        restructuring law and
                                                                                                        increased privatization in
                                                                                                        the energy sector.

            WTO accession process         WTO accession restarted.         Bi-lateral WTO protocols     Sixteen out of 25 technical
            stalled.                                                       signed with 14 countries,    procedures based on the EU
                                                                           Ukraine's legislation in     "New Approach" were
                                                                           correspondence with          approved by official orders
                                                                           TRIPS agreement on           of the State Standards
                                                                           intellectual property        Committee and registered by
                                                                           rights, new Approach on      the Minstry of Justice.
                                                                           technical directives
                                                                           adopted.

Property    Land reform is stalled.       6.5 million land certificates    Adoption of the Land          The Law of Ukraine "On
Rights                                    issued.                          Code & issuance of at         State Registration of
                                                                           least 3.4 million land        Property Rights to Real
                                                                           titles.                       Estate and Their
                                                                                                         Limitations" was passed
                                                                                                         and came into force on
                                                                                                         August 3, 2004. This law
                                                                                                         established the legal basis
                                                                                                         for creation of a single
                                                                                                         registry for land and real
                                                                                                         estate within a single
                                                                                                         agency;

            Non-transparent               Privatization Advisory Group     PAG confirms improved         Transparency of industrial
            privatization process a major (PAG) formed.                    transparency of the           enterprise privatization
            source of concern.                                             privatization program.        verified by PAG review of
                                                                                                         a randomly selected sample
                                                                                                         of achieved transactions;

            Energy sector reform off      6 Oblenergos privatized to       Debt Resolution Law
            track.                        strategic investors through      enacted which facilitates
                                          high quality process.            completion of power
                                                                           privatization.

            Bank Ukraina insolvent,       Banking license of Bank          All household depositors
            threatening financial                                          of Bank Ukrainia paid off



                                                          - 56 -

                                               Ukraina withdrawn.
                 stability of the Banking                                     according to their deposit
                 Sector.                                                      guarantees.

Public Sector    Lack of accountability of     Single Treasury Account        All non-pension social
Efficiency and   public funds.                 established.                   funds brought into the
Accountability                                                                Treasury System.

                 Lack of legal and             Public procurement law         Strategy for institutional
                 institutional framework for   approved.                      development of the
                 public procurement.                                          procurement system
                                                                              developed.

                 Non-transparent               Formula-based system for       Refinement of transfer
                 discretionary allocation of   allocation of transfers to     formula, including
                 transfers to local budgets.   oblasts implemented.           provision of transfers from
                                                                              the State budget directly
                                                                              to the rayons and cities.

                 Inefficient and cumbersome    Number of ministries and      Decision-making delegated
                 system of public              other central executive power downward.
                 administration, comprises     bodies reduced from 89 to 50,
                 more than 100 of central      including 16 ministries.
                 bodies of executive power.

Management of    General plan agreed for 3     Personified system introduced .
Social and       pillar pension system , but   and unified social insurance
Environmental    pension reform stalled.       database initiated.
Risks
                 11 social assistance                                        Social assistance programs  Reduction in the number of
                 programs with as many                                       reduced to 5 and            social benefit programs
                 different administrations.                                  administration combined.    focusing only on the
                                                                                                         vulnerable from 11 to 5

                Unpaid entitlements of social Occupational privilege         Social and occupational
                and occupational privileges   entitlements frozen by         privileges income tested for
                amount to 13% of GDP.         Parliament.                    all public employees.

                 TB/AIDS epidemics growing     Comprehensive health and      TB/AIDS national
                 without national programs     education reform strategies   strategies under
                 in place to address them.     adopted by the Cabinet.       implementation.




                                                              - 57 -

- 58 -

