Page  1
June 27, 2002
Mr. Alexander Shlapak
Minister
Ministry of Economy and 
Issues of European Integration
12/2, M. Hrushevski St.
Kyiv-8, 01008
Ukraine
Re: 
UKRAINE: Dutch Grant No. TF 050270
(Preparation of the Second Programmatic Adjustment Loan)
Letter Agreement                                                                      
Dear Mr. Shlapak:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Netherlands 
Minister for Development Cooperation, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two million six 
hundred forty thousand Dollars ($2,640,000) (the Grant) to Ukraine (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Framework Technical Assistance Grant 
Agreement between the Recipient and the Bank, dated January 14, 1998, which forms an integral part 
of this Letter Agreement, and in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by 
confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    /s/  Deborah Wetzel
Acting Director, Ukraine and Belarus
Europe and Central Asia
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
UKRAINE
By   /s/  Alexander Shlapak
Title   :  Minister of Economy and Issues of European Integration
Date   :  July 8, 2002
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1. The purposes of the Grant are to assist the Recipient in its efforts to implement the program of 
institutional and structural reforms supported by the Programmatic Adjustment Program.  To that end, 
the activities (Activities) for which the Grant is given consist of: 
Part A:
Financial Accountability
1.
Carrying out of a program designed to improve the Recipient’s accountability and control 
over the use of public resources, encompassing: (i) the carrying out of workshops and seminars on the 
design of the Recipient’s financial accountability system with the key agencies responsible for the 
control of public finance (including, among others, the Ministry of Finance, the Control and Revision 
Department, the Accounting Chamber, Treasury, the State Property Fund, and the State Tax 
Administration); (ii) the provision of training for representatives of financial departments of main 
spending units on budget execution under  preliminary financial control of the State Treasury; (iii) the 
holding of an international conference on transition to international standards for listed companies; 
(iv) the implementation of a survey of up to twenty (20) companies with state share and of an in-depth 
analysis over the results of the said survey; and (v) the undertaking of a review of the organizational 
and regulatory role of the Recipient’s various state bodies in managing state-owned enterprises, the 
development of a strategy to improve it, and the organization of a workshop based on the results 
thereof.
2.
Improvement of the Recipient’s financial accountability through: (i) the provision of advice to 
the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Internal Audit Department on the role of internal audit in 
budget resource management, risk analysis and restructuring of internal audit function; (ii) the 
provision of consultations on the best practice of program budgeting; (iii) the organization of study 
tours for representatives of the Audit Chamber and the Association of Auditors on international 
practice of certifying auditors in the United States of America and European countries; (iv) the 
provision of expertise on international practice of control over auditors’ compliance with audit 
standards and quality control of their performance; (v) the organization of study tours on state 
financial control and state auditing in the countries of the European Union for specialists of the 
Recipient’s Accounting Chamber, the Parliamentary Budget Committee, the Ministry of Finance and 
the Internal Auditing Department.
3.
Development of the Recipient’s skills necessary for the suitable drafting of regulations, 
through the provision of the expertise on draft regulations (standards) of accounting for budgetary 
units and advisory services on drafting law on public control over compliance with budget legislation 
and liability for budget violations.
Part B:
Public Procurement
1.
Carrying out of a review of the Recipient’s existing legislative framework for public 
procurement in order to assist the Recipient with the provision of expertise: (i) identify and draft any 
Page  3
required amendments to its Public Procurement Law (PPL) to make it consistent with international 
best practice; (ii) draft by-laws necessary for the implementation of the PPL;        (iii)  identify and 
prepare draft amendments to other related laws so as to make them consistent and compliant with the 
PPL; (iv) draft by-laws on the establishment of an interagency coordination body on public 
procurement; and (v) draft standard bidding documents and sample documents on carrying out of 
public procurement in accordance with the revised legislation
.
2.
Institutional development of the Recipient’s public procurement system, by means of:      (i) 
the provision of professional development and advanced training for the staff of the Recipient’s 
Public Procurement Department (Ministry of Economy and on Issues of European Integration); (ii) 
the provision of professional development and advanced training to the staff of the procurement 
divisions at the regional (
oblast
)
level; and (iii) the provision of equipment for Recipient’s Public 
Procurement department, its regional offices, and interagency coordination body.
3.
Carrying out of educational programs and provision of information technologies with a view 
to: (i) create a suitable information and analytical system for the carrying out public procurement; (ii) 
elaborate educational and methodology materials for advance training and professional development 
in the public procurement system; and (iii) provide training on public procurement for spending units, 
business community, and universities' lecturers.
Part C:
Accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO)
1.
Carrying out of a comprehensive analysis of the Recipient’s relevant legislative framework to 
analyze and determine the conformity of Ukrainian legislation with the WTO agreements and thereby 
assist the Recipient through the provision of expertise: (i) draft legislation on sanitary and 
phytosanitary measures, technical barriers in trade and licensing; (ii) develop state support indicators 
in agriculture in conformity with WTO requirements; (iii) elaborate requirements for the functioning 
of a services market and their successful incorporation into the Ukrainian legislation; and (iv) draft 
legislation on the protection of intellectual property rights.
2.
Carrying out of an economic analysis of the implications to the Recipient of its accession to the 
WTO, including an analysis of the economic impact of legislation to be adopted within the framework 
of WTO accession process.
3.
Launching and implementation of a public awareness campaign on the advantages and the 
Recipient's progress on the way to WTO accession, and delivery of related seminars on the 
Recipient’s WTO accession, and provision of the necessary office equipment, including computers 
and printers, copiers, scanners, fax machines, to the Recipient’s Department for Cooperation with the 
WTO within the Ministry of Economy and Issues of European Integration, as required in the 
implementation of the Activities under this Part C.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
Provision of support to the Recipient in the implementation of the Activities, including 
technical advisory services for the monitoring and administration of the Activities, the financing of 
the salaries of the staff administering the Grant, the provision of computers and software, minor office 
equipment and supplies, and financing of the cost of communications and the carrying out of the 
audits referred to in paragraph 5 of this Annex. 
Page  4
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (i) carry out the Activities through its Ministry of Economy and Issues of 
European Integration with due diligence and efficiency; (ii) promptly provide the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for that purpose; (iii) furnish all information covering the 
Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (iv) from 
time to time, exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities; and (v) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the 
Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, 
if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the 
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the 
Activities.
3.
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
3.1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the procurement of the goods and the selection and 
employment of the consultants’ services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this 
Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and 
that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
the goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
Page  5
4.2. The proceeds of the Grant shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities and to 
finance:
    Amount of the
     % of 
 Grant Allocated
  Expenditures
Category
in dollars   
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’ services
1,901,000
100% for foreign consulting 
firms and foreign individual 
consultants; 87% for local 
consulting firms; and 
92% for local individual 
consultants
(2)
Training
361, 500
100%
(3)
Operating costs
127,500
100% until December 31, 2002; 
50% until December 31, 2003; 
and 25% thereafter
(4)
Goods
           250,000    
100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 
80% of local expenditures 
for other items procured locally
TOTAL
2,640,000
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term:
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other than 
that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Recipient;
     (b)
    “local expenditures” means expenditures that are not foreign expenditures;
(c)
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is registered or 
incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(d)
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual consultant who is a 
national of a territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(e)
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is registered or 
incorporated in the territory of the Recipient;
(f)
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant who is a 
Page  6
national of the territory of the Recipient; and 
(g)
the term “operating costs” means expenditures incurred to finance the salaries of the 
consultants responsible for administering the Grant and the computers, software, minor office 
equipment and supplies required by the said consultants to carry out such responsibility, and the cost 
of the audit to be carried out pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 of this Annex.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or for 
services supplied from, such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, 
or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; and
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after August 31, 2004 or such 
later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if 
the corresponding withdrawal application is received by the Bank within four (4) months after the 
Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (i) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of 
Economy and Issues of European Integration or such other person as he or she shall have authorized 
in writing; and (ii) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal 
applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature. Each withdrawal 
application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities. The Bank shall pay 
the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the 
Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; (ii) services of consulting firms, under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (iii) services of individual consultants, under contracts costing less than $25,000 
equivalent each; and (iv) training and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
Page  7
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a foreign commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to 
in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and     (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank 
such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Page  8
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (i) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (ii) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of 
the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (i) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (ii) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six (6) months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (i)  the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (ii) the 
following provisions of Section I of this Attachment I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
In the case of goods to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B, the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $195,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Page  9
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $85,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts or any requests for quotations, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Activities shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, but less than $100,000 equivalent, the following provisions shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of the supplier under shopping procedures, the Recipient 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping procedures, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to all other contracts not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  10
Section II:
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:    
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (ii) the following provisions of Section II of this Attachment I.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the preparation of draft legislation on the protection of intellectual property 
rights under Part C.1 (iv) of the Activities estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services of an auditor estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for the Activities that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:   
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  11
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms 
of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the items set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Page  12
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account under the eligible 
item, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  13
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
