Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/ A 'z 7SC3  4/a
Report No. 12780-IN
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
IDDIA
CONTAINER TRASPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
MAY 9, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12780 IN
Type: SAR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II - India
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by ripients only in the perfonnnc of
their offciil dutes. Its contents may not othewis be disclosed without Wodd Bank authoriaion.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =       Rupee (Rs)
I Rupee (Rs)    =        100 paisa = US$ 0.0323
I Lakh                   100 thousand = US$ 3,125
1 Crore         =        10 million Rs = US$ 312,500
US$ 1.00         =       Rs32
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                   British/US system
I meter (m)              =       3.281 feet
1 square meter (!n2)     =       10.764 square feet
1 cubic meter (m)        =       35.315 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)         =       0.621 mile
I metric ton             =       2,205 pounds
1 tkm                    =       ton-kilometer (0.621 ton-mile)
I pkm                    =       passenger-kilometer (0.621 passenger-mile)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BFK              =       bogie container flats
BPT              =       Bombay Port Trust
CAS              =       country assistance strategy
CONCOR                   Container Corporation of India
CFS                      container freight station
DEA              =       Department of Economic Affairs (Ministy of
Finance)
DPE              =       Departnent of Public Enterprises
EDI              =       eleatronic data interchange
ERR              =       ecanomic fate of return
FAK              =       frcight all kinds
FYP              =       Five Year Plan
GDP              =       gross domestic product
GNP              =       giOss national product
001              =       Government of India
HDC              =       high density corridors
HOM              =       Port of Madras
ICB              =       international competitive bidding
ICD              =       inland container depot
ICR                      Inmplmentation of Completion Report
IR               =       Indian Railways
JNPT             =       Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust
MOC              =       Ministry of Commerce
MOCA             =       Ministry of Civil Aviation
MOR              =       Ministry of Railways
MOST             =       Ministy of Surface Transport
MOU                      memorandum of understanding
MTO              =       multi-modal trnsport operator
NVOCC            =       non-vessel- operating container carrier
PC                       Planning Commission
POL                      petroleum oil lubricants
PKM              =       passenger-kilometers
PSCT                     port side container terminal
PSU              =       Public Sector Unit
RDSO             =       Research, Design and Standards Organization
RFID             =       radio frequency identification device
RITES            =       Rail India Techmical and Economic Services
SAL/SAC          =       stuctural adjustment loan/credit
TA               =       technical assistance
TEU              =       twenty foot equivalent units
TILL             =       trade and investment 1beralizai loan
TKD              =       Tughiakabad ICD
TKM              =       ton-kilometers



I:OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower            Container Corporation of India (CONCOR)
Benefician          Container Corporation of India (CONCOR)
Guarantor           India, acting by its President. The Government of India (GOI) would charge
CONCOR a guarantee fee of 1.2 percent per annum on the principal amount
of the IBRD loan withdrawn and outstanding.
Loan Amount         US$ 94 million equivalent
Terms               The loan would have a repayment period of twenmy years, including a five-
year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Qbiecv              The overall objective of the project would be to provide a suitable enabling
ervironment for container transport and increase the capacity and efficiency of
long haul transport of high value general cargo, particularly related to foreign
trade. The project would increase the use of containers hi the transport of
general cargo, and encourage and facilitate the use of the railway for such
transport wherever it is economically the best option.
Proiect
Desridtio           The proposed project would: (a) improve the institutional framework for
efficient and competitive container transport through the removal of the main
customs practices and procedures restricting the inland movement of
containers; (b) strengthen the commercial approach and operational efficiency
of CONCOR in an increasingly compeitive environment by diluting at least a
5 percent share of GOI's equity in CONCOR, broadening the composition of
the Board of Directors of CONCOR, reforming CONCOR's claim policy to
meet customer needs, and providing technical assistance and training; and (c)
support scheduled high-quality container train services in the main corridors
through the acquisition of selected rolling stock, cargo handling equipment,
transponders and readers for electronic tracking of container trains, flat car
and containers, and related civil works and engineering services.
Benefits            The proposed project would help develop container transport with particular
emphasis, as a first step, on the main rail corridors of Delhi-Bombay/JNPT
and Delhi-Madras. It would improve transport capacity and efficiency of long-
haul high-value containerizable cargo, particularly for foreign trade shipments,
through increased speed and safety, reduced losses, and overall door-to-door
costs. In addition, by diverting traffic from the satrated highways, the project
would help reduce congestion and pollution.
This document has a resticted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the pfomac of tbeir
official duties Its content may not otherwise be discled without World Bank athorizaton.



ii
Risks              The main risk is that the expected improms in CONCOR's perfom1ance
may not be fully achieved due to insufficient support from Indian Railways
(IR) in providing needed block train paths and trAction power. Anotlier risk is
that agencies, such as Customs, that derive litde direct benefit from the
project may be slow to amend thir procedures. In addition if demand
projections do not materialize, CONCOR would have difficulties in servicing
the sharply higher level of debt generated by the project. Fially, the foreign
exchange risk of the project will be borne by CONCOR even though all of its
revemnes are .: Rupees.
Estimated Cost     US$ 151 million equivalent
Fin cin. P-1       IBRD         US$ 94.0 million
CONCOR       US$ 53.0 million
Co-fimancier  US$ 4.0 million
Estimated Loan and Credit Disbrseents
FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY2000
----(S$ million)-.
Annual              12    26      28   16      8     4
Cumulative          12    38     66    82     90    94
Economic
Rate of Rn         37 percent
Poverty Cate2ory   Not applicable



iii
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. TRANSPORT AND TRADE IN INDIA  .................................   1
A. Economy and Trade  ...... ..................................   I
1.    Overview  ........................................   1
2.     Government's Program of Econoric Reform  ..................   1
3.     Bank's Involvement in Economic Reform and Trade Liberaliaion in
India ...........................................   2
B. The Transport Sector       .............................. .                      2
1.    Overview  ........................................   2
2.     Phnning and Coordmatin   .............................   3
3.    Investmen  and Policy  ..............                                  3
4.     Bank's Involvement in Transport Sector and Lessons Leared.4
C. Role of Transport in Facilitting Trade ............  ..      ................   S
1.    Major Transport constaints to Trade Growth .................   5
2.     Role of Contaier Transportaion  .........................   5
3.     Major Issues in Developing Cont riade on  ..................   6
H. CONTAINER CORPORATION OF INDIA (CONCOR) ........................   8
A. The Company .............................................   8
B. Business Activities.                                                             9
C. CONCOR's Strengths and Weaknesses .........        ..............  ......   9
D. Financial Performance .................................. 10
E. Business and Finance Plan  .............................. ...   12
F. Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) ..............................  12
G. Financial Projections .................................                         13
IH. THE PROJECT  .................................   14
A. Project Orgin ..................................   14
B. Rationale and Objectives .................................. 14
C. Project Description ............            .....................   15
D. Project Cost .................................   16
E. Project Financing .................................   16
F. Project   l aon.          .........................  .............  17
G. Procurement .................................   17
H. Disbursement .................................   20
I. Economric Evaluation and Risks .................................    20
J. Environental impact .................................                           21
K. Monitoring and Auditing .................................. 21
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  .............................  22
/



iv
1.1   Bank Loans and Credits to Transportation Sector
2.1   Summary of Draft MOU (fiscal 1994-95)
2.2 Financial Evaluation of CONCOR
3.1   Project Objectives and Development Indicators
3.2    Outline of 'The Netherlands Technical Assistance Program to CONCOR
3.3 Project Cost Summary Table
3.4   Imlemeion Schedule
3.5 Performance Targets
3.6 Cumulative Disbursement Schedule
3.7 Economic Evaluation
3.8 Outline of Content of Quarterly Progress Reports
3.9 Supervision Schedule
3.10 Documents Available in Project File
TABLES
1.    Container Corporation of India Ltd. Financial Statements
2.    Sunmmy of Proposed Procrement Arrangements
CHART
2.1    Organizational Chart of CONCOR
3.1   Procement Schedule for Equipme  of Materials



1
INDIA
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. TRANSPORT AND TRADE IN INDIA
A. Economy and Trade
1.        Overview
1.1       Witb a per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of US$ 350, india remains one of the
world's poorest countries. From the time of independence in 1947 until recently, India pursued a
centrally planned approach to development (combining prudent macroeconomic management; an
active role for the state in key sectors such as banking, basic industries, utvlities, and infrastructure;
and extensive regulation of the economy) that went beyond the import su*bstitution industrialization
policies of most developing countries after World War HI. The Government regulated nearly all firms
of a specified size, in such basic business decisions 3s: borrowing, investment, capacity utilization,
pricing and distrbution. However, although highly regulated, the private sector has continued to be
important and is present in most sectors of the economy, accountirg for two-thiirds of the country's
GDP.
2.         Government's Program of Economic Reform
1.2       Reform Programs Throughout the 1980s, important policy changes began to liberalize
trade, industry and flun',e, while subsidies, tax concessions and depreciation of the currency
improved exports. These reforms, altLough only partially addressing the country's most fundamental
struural problems, did help increase GDP growth to more than 5 percent per year during the decade
and help reduce the incidence of poverty.
1.3       A break with India's past development policies occurred in June 1991 when the present
government came to power and began implementing a comprehensive program of stabilization and
reform. The Eighth Plan for FY92/97 articulated the new government's main objectives: reducing
macroeconomic imbalances, transforming India into an internationally competitive economy open to
trade and foreign investment, encouraging the development ef the private sector, and improving the
country's infrastructure and human resources base. The balance of payments crisis has been overcome
and the current account deficit has declined from US$ 10 billion (3.5 percent of GDP) in FY90/91 to
US$ 1.7 billion in PY93/1994 (0.7 percent of GDP); inflation has declined to around 8.5 percent at
present, from a peak of 17 percent in August 1991; and the fiscal deficit has been reduced from 8.5
percent of GDP in FY90/91 to 7.3 percent in FY93/1994. On the structural reform front there has
been rapid progress in liberalizing the trade and investment regimes, liberalizing capital markets, and
strenthening the banking system. A start has also been made to restructure or privatize public sector
enterprises and to reform the tax system.
1.4       Trade Liberalization The first set of trade reforms was introduced in July 1991. They
eliminat  a costly subsidy scheme for exports, lowered quantitative restrictions on imports, adjusted
the exchange rate, and increased significantly the freely tradable import entitlement granted to
exporers. Sweeping additional trade and payments reforms were introduced seven months later at the
time of the PY92/93 budget, and again in April 1993. As a result, a floating exchange rate system



2
has emerged. The maximum import tariff rate has been reduced significantly, from 400 percent to 65
percent while the import -weighed tariff has been reduced from 77 percent in PY90/91 to 41 percent
in PY93194. Quantitative restrictions have been eliminated for intermediates and capital goods. In the
Eighth Plan, the government indicated that further measures will be taken to reach a trade regime free
of quantity restrictions and an average tariff rate of 25 percent by FY96/97.
1.5        Export Promotion  Export promotion is a key component of the government's program
and is the main reason for devaluation and floating of the Rupee and tariff reductions. In addition,
001 has taken several steps to improve thAe administration of export promotion schemes and to
remove foreign exchange controls that restricted exporters' activities. A number of schemes have
been strengthened to improve exporters' access to i4puti at international prices, such as the Advance
License Scheme (which allows exporters to import raw materials and intermediate goods without
paying duty), the Duty Drawback Scheme, the export processing zones, and the 100 percent Export
Oriented Units. Current projections suggest that imports and exports will grow in real terms at rates
slighdy above 10 percent per year.
3.         Bank's Jnvolve%ent in Economic Reform and Trade Liberalization in India
1.6        Policy-Based Lending In December 1991, the Bank made a US$ 500 million strucural
adjustment loan and credit (SAL/SAC) to India, the first stage of Bank support for the 01rI's
adjusanent program. In December 1992, the Bank made another sector adjustment credit of US$ 500
million to facilitate GOI's reform program by strengthening the social safety net during the adjustment
process. Recently, the Bank has approved a US$ 300 million Trade and Investment Liberalization
Loan (IUL), in support of the liberalization of India's external sector and investment regime.
B. The Transport Sector
I.         Overview
1.7        The transport network in India is extensive and diversified: it comprises about 62,000
route kilometers (km) of railways; 1,890,000 km of roads (of which 8.5 percent of the network
carries 75 percent of the road traffic); 11 major and 139 intermediate and minor ports; 14 major
airports (6 handle international flights); 7,000 km of pipelines; and 14,500 km of inland waterways
(5,200 km are navigable by motorized vessels). In addition to motorized transport, India las an
important non-motorized transport system in the form of bullock carts and sailing boats, as well as
push carts and other porterage (an estimated 15 million units, but with a freight market share of only
2 percent).
1.8        Land transport, traffic (road and rail) has been increasing rapidly since the 1950s. Road
transport has grown substantially faster than rail, with an average growth rate of about 6 percent for
freight and 7 percent for passenger traffic during the period 1951-81. Road traffic had an even faster
growth rate during the period 1981-93 when freight traffic grew at about 7 percent and passenger
traffic at 9 percent. During the same period rail freight traffic grew at about 5 percent and passengers
also by about 5 percent.
1.9        Historically, India relied on its extensive raLl network for .nost of its long distance
transport needs, and Indian Railways (IR) has become the world's third largest system in terms of
total traffic units under one administration and employs approximately 1.7 million people. In 1992-93,
it carried 268 billion ton kilometers (M) and 226 billion passenger kilometers (P"M). The current
role of the railway is consistent with its comparative advantage in the Indian transport sector, except
for long-distance transport of high-value goods. IR's share in the modal transport split has been
declining and is presendy down to 18 percent for PKM and 40 percent for TKM. The road accounts
for 55 percent of TKM and 82 percent of PKM and coastal and inland watways shipping handles



3
the remaining 5 percent of freight TKM. Today, IR has become primarily a long-distance bulk
carrier of commodities, with coal, cemeit, fertilizer, grain, and iron ore accounting for 85 percent of
rail freight traffic. It also plays a vital role irn the transportation of conmmuters in three major cities
(Bombay, Madras, and Calcutta) and of inter-city passengers.
1.10       To serve the growing traffic requirements, both the rail and road systems nieeo major
improvements. The effective functioning of IR is hampered by capacity constraints and old and worn
track, signalling equipment, motive power and rolling stock, much of which needs to be repaired or
r;placed. The road network is also suffering from low construction standards and increasing
congestion, particularly in the high density corridors. Because of the long distances involved between
the main inland production centers and the gateway ports, a properly functioning system for
movement of containers by rail would have a comparative advantage and should yield significant
economic benefits. It should be noted that, partly as a result of slow and unreliable inland road and
rail transport, a significant part of Indian exports (approximately 35 percent by value) is currently
moved by air freight.
2.         Planninig and Coordination
1.11       The GOi is heavily involved in the transport sector in India, characterized by state
ownership of infrastructure and most transport operators (except for road freight transport, some
shipping and, since mid-1992, an increasing number of private airlines), a regime of administered
prices, centrally allocated supply, and a policy of technological self-reliance. The system of
administered prices for publicly provided transport services has resulted in delays in tariff adjustments
and has introduced some socio-political considerations in tariff setting, particularly for passenger
fares. The policy of technological self-reliance has resulted in the continued use of older and less-
efficient technologies, particularly in rail aud road transport.
1.12       The sector is under the jurisdiction of various ministries: roads and road transport,
major ports, and shipping are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Surface Transport (MOST);
railways are a department of the Ministry of Railways (MOR); civil aviation is under the Ministry of
Civil Aviation (MOCA); pipelines are under the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas; and trade
organization is under the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). Responsibility for some of these activities,
particularly highways and ports, is shared by the central goverment and the states, which also have
direct jurisdiction over some services (especially those provided within states). Coordination among
the different modes is handled by the Coordinating Committee of the Secretaries of Surface
Transport, Railways, Civil Aviation.
3.         Investment and Policy
1.13       The level of investments in the transport sector has been insufficient to meet the
increasing demand. Invesuments allocated in successive plans for the transport sector have been
increasing in real terms; however, these increases have oeen significantly less than the growth in
traffic. The share of budget allocations for transport in the five-year plans has declined from 22
percent during the First Five-Y, jr Plan (FYP) to around 13 percent during the Sixth, Seventh and
Eighth FYP. This is particularly true in the road sub-sector where not only have the funds allocated
been insufficient but there has been a constant bias in favor of the tertiary road network (rural roads)
at the expense of the national and state road networks. Within the transport sector, modal shares in
public capital expenditure have varied considerably, but the -ailways have received the largest share
(about 48 percent of the Eighth FYP) followed by road construction (24 percent), road transport (7
percent), and ports and inland waterways, r-ivil aviation and shipping (the remaining 21 percent). The
other transport sub-sectors, including the ra lways, have also had inadequate funding, which has led to
increasing transport bottlenecks. In the future public sector funding constraints and increasing
transport demand will likely necessitate increased efficiency and financial self-reliance in public



4
enterprises and more investments from, as well as a greater role for, the private sector. To date,
private sector investments have been concentrated maivly in road and air transport and to a growing
extent in shipping. The government is now developing policies for attracting more private investments
in road infrastructure and ports, and IR is trying to attract private or public investments in rolling
stock and other facilities. IR is also resorting to substantial market borrowing (Rs 10.5 billion for
FY95) to augment its internal resources.
1.14       The government long -term investment objectives for the transport sector are: (a)
removing bottlenecks, (b) increasing capacity, (c) conserving energy, (d) completing ongoing works,
(e) maximizing asset utilization, and (f) paying special attention to rural areas. None of these
objectives have been fully achieved in the past, and major shortcomings persist (for instance,
infrastructure capacity lags behind demand for nmost modes). It is expected, however, that the
structural reform program initiated in 1991 will result in increased private sector involvement and
more liberalization in the transport sector as well as improved efficiency and performance.
4.          Bank's Involvement in Transport Sector and Lessons Leamed
1.15       Bank/IDA Operations in the Transport Sector. Until recently, the Bank's involvement in
the sector was predominantly in railways, due to the Indian authorities' preference for local
competitive bidding in road and port projects. However, following GOI's decision in the mid-1980s
to allow international competitive bidding for contracts in road and port projects, the Bank has had a
more balanced lending program split between the railways and roads. Annex 1.1 provides a list of
recent transport sector projects.
1.16       Current Bank Strategv in the Transport Sector. The sector strategy will complement the
government's overall reform policies and focus on projects for capacity expansion and efficiency
improvement at the agency and sub-sector level, including policy adjustments and institution building.
More specifically the Bank strategy gives particular emphasis to improving the commercial and
competitive environment in the sector and sub-sectors, improving the capacity and efficiency in the
high-density corridors and strengthening project engineering, implementation and supervision. It
focusses on:
(a)   Rationalization of container services on fixed schedules, delegation of more
responsibilities to the port authorities and the promotion of private participation in areas
such as terminal operations and container handling.
(b)   Establishment of an effective, operational National Highway Authority, privatization of
highway engineering design and supervision services, rigorous prequalification of
consulting engineers and contractors together with sound competitive binding
procedures.
(c)   Significant increase in outlays for investment and maintenance on the congested road
netwcrk, partly financed through user fees and charges, including vehicle and fuel
taxation.
(d)   Adoption of measures to place the operations of Indian Railways on a sound commercial
footing by giving higher priority to profitable freight operations through redluctions in
subsikiies for passenger, suburban and meter gauge services and through the
corporatization/privatization of its manufacturing activities.
1.17       Lessons to be Learned from Past Projects. The Bank's lending in the transport sector
in India has faced a multitude of problems, especially in the area of implementation. Obstacles to
satisfactory project performance have included shortage of counterpart funding, delays in decision-



5
making, and capacity constraints and quality control in the construction industry and procurement
delays. These problems are not unique to the transport sector but also appear in other sectors.
1.18       Many of the problems were project-specific: lack of familiarity with Bank procedures;
changes in project scope or components during implementation; inadequate engineering designs;
changes in project management; low salaries; an delays in procurement start-up delays. Generally
speaking, the railway projects have encountered fewer implementation problems than those in the
other sub-sectors due to a well-structured administrative system familiar with Bank procurement
procedures. The main problem has been procurement delays.
1.19       Because of the above, Bank-financed projects in the transport sector have in many cases
encountered substantial delays in implemen'tation and, in some cases, cost overruns. However, it
should be noted that the qiuality of the completed projects components have, (with some exceptions,
particularly regarding road construction standards), been acceptable. To further improve
implementation quality, over the last two years there has been increased use of international
consultants in project design and supervision, larger contract packages, and standardization of tender
documents as adopted in the Second National Highways Project. In June 1993, the government also
announced the establishment of a monitoring system and a new system of releas, of counterpart funds
to accelerate project implementation. In order to further improve procurement, the government and
the Bank jointly prepared "standard bidding documents" to be used for all future Bank projects in
India.
1.20       Drawing on past experience, considerable attention has been given to several measures
to ensure efficient iniplementation of the proposed Container Transport Logistics Project. First,
agreement has been reached on the key policy issues such as the Multi-modal Transport of Goods Act
(para 1.27), some changes in custome procedures (para 1.28), and private sector participation (para
1.27) that will enable container transport to develop. Second, the preparation of the physical
components of the project is well advanced. Equipment specifications, procurement packaging and
tender documentation have been agreed before loan negotiations. Finally, in order to improve the
technical, operational, financial and marketing performance of CONCOR, the Government of The
Netherlands has approved a grant for a comprehensive technical assistance program, which is an
integral part of the project.
C. Ro1e of Transport in Facilitating Trade
1.         Maior Transport Constraints to Trade Growth
1.21       The Eighth Plan stated that GOI would carry out further trade reforms to better integrate
the Indian economy into world trade. However, faster growth in trade will be held back if current
constraints in the transport sector are not addressed. As discussed in section B above, the transport
system has not kept pace with the demand for transport services, largely because of insufficient
investments, some inanpropriate policies, and less than optimal efficiency. The Indian transport sector
has also been slow in upgrading technology and adapting to changing transport demands in both
domestic and foreign trade. This is particularly true for containerization.
2.         Role of Container Transportation
1.22      Containerization trarsport in India began only recently and has developed at a relatively
slow pace. At present containerized transport of general cargo accounts for only about one-third of
the total containerizable cargo, as compared with 65 to 70 percent in many other developing
countries. Perhaps more importantly, fewer than 20 percent of the containers passing through Indian
ports move inland, while 80 percent are stuffed or destuffed in the ports, clearly indicating the
potential for substantial further growth in the inland movement of containers. The slow development



6
of inland container movements can be explained by several factors, including the organization of the
trade, insufficient infrastructure and facilities for container transport and handling, and outdated
regulations (see para 1.26).
1.23       The benefits of containerization are manyfold: it allows door-to-door transport, speedy
intermodal transfers, low handling costs, reduced breakage and pilferage, lower insurance costs, and
earlier payments to the exporter. The Indian economy would benefit substantially through improved
competitiveness and higher revenues or lower costs if containerization were used as extensively as in
other countries in the region.
1.24       As part of its effort to promote exports, GOI has in recent years incremed port capacity
and facilitated the development of container and combined transport services. A major new port was
constructed at New Bombay (JNPT), with specialized container facilities, and new container-handling
facilities were added at other major ports such as Madras and Cochin. Following the estabiishment of
CONCOR as a wholly owned subsidiary of IR in March 1988, considerable progress has been made
in developing an initial network of inland container depots (ICDs) and a system of block container
trains linking Delhi with the major ports of Bombay (JNPT and BPT), Madras (HOM), as well as
between Bangalore and Madras and Cochin. New ICDs have recently been opened at Delhi and
Bangalore. The private sector also owns and operates an increasing number of container freight
stations (CFSs).
1.25       The development of containerization and increased use of inland rail transport of
containers will also help reduce the severe bottlenecks on India's highways. According to a recent
study, 46 percent of trucking hauls on India's main highway network are in excess of 500 km and 26
percent are in excess of 1,000 km. Much of this traffic could be moved by rail in containers if high-
quality, long-haul container transport services were made available.
3.         Major Issues in DeveloDinge Containerization
1.26       Containerization has developed slowly in India mainly because (a) customs regulations
and procedures restrict movement of import/export containers by road and prolong the time containers
moving inland have to spend in the country; (b) there was a shortage of ICDs and CFSs; (c) there
was no appropriate legislative framework for container transport; (d) the shortage of railway fiats and
the low priority given by IR to such traffic; (e) the shortage of multi-axle trucks suitable for the
transport of containers; and (f) the generally poor condition of road networks that restricts road
movement of containers.
1.27       Most of the above problems have been or are being addressed. The government has
opened the development of ICDs and CFSs to the private sector and stablished a -one-window-
approval system (b). Th-v legislative framework for combined transport has been dealt with through
the recent passage of the Multi-Modal Transport of Goods Act, (1993) and various amendments that
are presently being prepared (c). The proposed project would provide additional flat-wagons for
railway movement of containers (d). Linked with the project. IR and CONCOR have developed a
new memorandum of understanding (MOU) for 1994-95 that accords higher priority to this traffic
through increasingly fixed schedule guaranteed transit time services for container trains (d).
Resolution of the road network constraints and upgrading of truck technology (e and f) are longer-
term measures that cannot be dealt with within the scope of the proposed project.
1.28       The customs bottleneck is one of the most difficult issues facing trade development in
India. The customs system is widely regarded as one of the more cumbersome and complicated in the
world. The system is based on safeguarding revenues; until recently over 50 percent of central
govermment revenues were derived from customs duties and taxes. The rules and procedures used for



7
assessing and collecting duties and taxes, however, have become excessively complex and open to
abuse by bureaucratic discretionary power. The 1991 Rail India Technical and Economic Services
(RITES) review of customs procedures and documentation has already resulted in some simplification
of procedures and alignment of export documents. A review of the recommendations made by RITES
is currenly being carried out for the Ministry of Commerce to assess the extent of implementatioL.
Apart from these actions, there reportedly has been a significant improvement in the attitude of
Customs over the last year. Furthermore, in late-1993 the Ministry of Commerce established a
committee to review all procedures relating to imports and exports with the objective of
simplification; their recommendations are expected shortly.
1.29       The project addresses the specific customs procedures and practices that restrict or were
perceived to restrict the inland movement of containers. These points were discussed during loan
negotiations and the following Action Plan agreed between the government and the Bank:
(a)        Containers, whether loaded with goods or not, will be granted temporary admission for
a period of six months, which may be extended by the competent Customs authorities,
without any separate statutory Customs document being required to be filed for each
container separately. The party concerned shall notify the Customs of the number and
identification particulars of the containers to be moved outside the Customs area. Any
bond required for such movement could be either for a specific individual consignment
of containers or as a standing general bond covering a larger number of containers. The
aimount of bond shall not exceed the Customs duty leviable on such containers in case
they are not re-exported within the stipulated time. Appropriate instructions to the
Customs authorities concemed will be issued before 31 May 1994. The question
whether the requirement of bond can be waived will be examined in the light of recent
developments, including the new UN/ECE Container Pool Convention. The Bank will be
informed of the conclusion and measures to be taken by end of 1994.
(b)        As regards movement of goods under bond to inland destinations, Customs may require
a bank guarantee for an amount not exceeding the Customs duty leviable on the goods.
For the benefit of traders, Customs will clarify before 31 May 1994 any ambiguity
regarding the amount of bank guarantee required for different categories of importers.
(c)        It is confirmed, and will be clarified to the trade before 31 May, 1994, that there is no
restriction that export containers, stuffed at exporters' premises and sealed by Customs,
should move to a port, an airport, an ICD or a CFS for export by (i) any particular
mode of transport, or (ii) only under the custodianship of a public sector entity.
(d)        The relevant wording of the Import Transhipment Regulations will be reviewed with a
view to be revised by 31 December 1994 in order to reflect the fact that transhipment is
allowed by rail, sea, air or road. Transhipment by road, however, may be subject to
conditions or may be disalowed where there are exceptional risks involved (e.g. becausu
of the hazardous nature of the goods or restrictions on their import into the country).
The availability or non-availability of a particular mode of transport should not be a
determining factor for the choice of mode.
(e)        A twenty-four hour Customs examnmation and clearance facility is available for export
cargo at the four major ports and airports since 1 April 1994. On request, and when
warranted by the volume and nature of traffic, such a facility would be considered for
introduction at ICDs/CFSs as well. Presently examination and clearance of cargo at
ICDs/CFSs beyond normal working hours is available on payment of overtime charges.



8
II. CONTAINER CORPORATION OF INDIA (CONCOR)
A. The Companv
2.1        CONCOR was established under the Companies Act in March 1988, at the
recommendation of RITES. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of IR. In November 1989, CONCOR
began operating the ICDs established earlier by IR and now operates 10 ICDs (New Delhi, Ludhiana,
Abmedabad, Pune, Bangalore, Coimbatore, Hyderabad, Guntur, Anaparti and Guwahati), 3 CFSs, 3
port side container terminals (PSCTs), and 2 domestic container terminals. It has remained the only
entity in the country handling container traffic at ICDs, althou6h another public sector enterprise
operates a large number of CFSs, partly in competition with CONCOR. More recently, the
Government has opened the establishment of ICDs as well as CFSs to the private sector (as indicated
in para 1.27). Besides CONCOR, certain other state agencies as well as The private sector has
responded and now own and operate a large number of CFSs.
2.2        Company Assets CONCOR has an authorized capital of Rs 1,000 million, out of which
Rs 650 million has been subscribed by IR, but most of the shares are held in the name of the
President of India. Until recently CONCOR owned very few physical assets and most of the land and
facilities have been leased from IR at concessional rates. During the past three years, CONCOR has
made substantial investments in ICDs at TUGHLAKABAD (TKD) outside New Delhi, Bangalore,
Madras and elsewhere at an estimated cost of Rs 1,110 million, funded primarily through internally
generated funds and capital subscriptions by IR. Handling equipment at all locations except TKD is
owned and operated by private sector contractors. At TKD, CONCOR owns and operates most of
the equipment; this is the only location where it intends to follow this practice. Requirements for
unskilled labor at all locations have been contracted out.
2.3        Management CONCOR is managed by a managing director. It has a Board of
Directors composed of ten members: the chairman, the managing director, two executive directors for
marketing and operation and for finance, and six non-executive directors from IR and related
ministries. Non-executive directors are nominated by relevant ministries. The Board meets at least
once every quarter to decide company affairs. In order to enhance CONCOR's competitiveness and
performance as well as responsiveness to user requirements, it is desirable to broaden the Board
composition by bringing in members with a commercial marketing or operational background to
complement the current experience mix. During loan negotiations the Indian delegation informed the
Bank that the principle had been approved by both the Borrower Board and by the Railway Board and
arrangements are presently underway under the guidance of DPE to identify suitable non-official part-
time board members. Since this will take some time, it was agreed that the implementation in line
with existing Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) guidelines which provide that one-third of PSU
boards be constituted by non-official part-time directors would become a condition of Loan
Effectiveness.
2.4        CONCOR's organizational structure is shown in Chart 2.1.
2.5        Staffing  As a public sector unit (PSU), CONCOR's staffing policy is governed by
relevant government rules, regulations and pay scales. CONCOR currently employs about 285
employees, of whom 37 are on secondment from IR. In order to minimize overheads and maximize
efficiency, CONCOR utilizes another 576 employees at its ICDs and CFSs supplied by private
conractors. Most of the 16 senior management officials of the company have come from IR,
seconded for three to five years with the option to return to IR or to stay at CONCOR. The top
management is composed of former IR officials who have severed their employment links with IR and
it is expected that the number of staff on secondment will decline. External recruitment at the
managerial level has been limited so far but is expected to increase, along with the need for
diversified expertise as CONCOR becomes more commercially oriented.



9
B. Business Atvte
2.6        The transportation of containers by rail generates over 95 percent of CONCOR's
turnover, making it a container transport operator. CONCOR operates a network of ICDs, CFSs and
PSCTs that it either took over from IR or buflt during the past 3 years. Its business activities fail into
three categories: conainer freight movement (74 percent of revenues), terminal handling (9 percent),
and ground storage (8 percent). The remanng 9 percent is generated primarily by interest income on
short-term deposits.
2.7        Clearly, container freight handling is CONCOR's main line of business, but since it
currently does not own its rolling stock, it is like a non-vessel operating container carrier (NVOCC),
accepting containerized cargo and afranging for its transport (primarily through IR). CONCOR also
arranges transportation of contaiers by road over some selected corrdors. CONCOR pays IR
haulage charges for containers on a freight all lknd (FAK) tariff basis (incidentally, other container
freight operators can ship by IR under the same FAK tariff basis) and is free to set rates according to
what the market can beAr. Traffic transit paths are presently provided by IR according to its own
priority in scheduling, and there is no guarantee for "on-time" transit for CONCOR's container
freight. This will change under the new MOU (see section F). IR has indicated that it is presently in
the process of negotiating agreements for container transport with at least one private party and that it
would be willing to negotiate similar arrangements with other intersted parties.
2.8        CONCOR's continer freight traffic falls into two categories: import/export traffic (the
transit between ports and ICDs or CFSs) and domestic traffic (the relatively small but growing flows
between Indian statinns). Over 60 percent of CONCOR's import/export traffic is concentated on the
key rail transit between the Delhi and Bombay/JNPT ports. Another 20 percent is on the Delhi-
Madras corridor. The remaining is found between ports and other inland destinations, including
Bangalore and Guwahati in Assam. CONCOR is responsible for container handling at all of its inland
locations (including PSCTs). However, the coiner handling activi at the ports is the
responsibility of the respective port authorities/stevedores. During 1992-93, CONCOR handled over
155,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) at its various terminals, including 33,000 TEUs (21
percent) of domestic traffic. For 1993-94, CONCOR is expected to handle a total of 221,000 TEUs,
of which 51,000 (23 percent) are domestic-a 42 percent increase over the previous year.
C. CONCOR's Smth and Weaknesses
2.9           s     CONCOR's major competitive strength is that it is the leader in a rapidly
expanding market. It is estimated that because of the low con ion rate of cargo and the
relatively low trade orientation of the Indian economy,  in ion will expand by at least 20
percent per year until the turn of the centy. The growth is partly as a result of increased foreign
trade, but more importantly due to a growth in the share of continerizd traffic that moves inland in
containers rather than being stffed/destuffed in the ports as is presently the case. CONCOR, in
anticipation of the growth in demand, is planing to invest heavily during the next five years to
increase its handlig capacity, quality of service, and operaig efficiency.
2.10       Container tranwport by rail also enjoys subsanti   cost advantages over long-haul
transport of freight by road. It is estimated that on the crucial TKD to Bombay corridor, CONCOR
has at least a 20 percent cost advantage over the transport of freight by road in break bulk. It can be
assumed that even when the regulatory framework allows free movement of containers by road,
CONCOR will still enjoy a substntial cost advantage on the TED to Bombay corridor. in the short
and medium term this advantage could also increase as traffic congestion increases on the main
highways. In addition, when compared to road haulage, CONCOR enjoys a subtntial secuity,
pilferage and damage advantage, with an accident rate of only 0.02 percent of containers carried.



10
2.11       Weaknesses Even though CONCOR enjoys substantial cost and security advantages, it
falls short in meeting the demand for a faster, more frequent and reliable level of service. In addition,
CONCOR lacks both the physical capacity and service facilities to capture the growing demand for
container transport. This explains why such a high percentage of cargo is still moving by road in
break bulk for distances of over 1,000 km and such an important share of exports are shipped by air
(para 1.10). Furthermore, CONCOR's record in responding promptly to customer inquiries and
requirements needed to be improved. At present it is handling the settlement of claims according to
the Railway Act procedures, ieading to complaints from the customers who often get the run-around
between CONCOR and IR rather than prompt setdtement of their claims.
2.12       The project, in conjunction with a five-year Business and Finance Plan for
FY93194-FY97/98, addresses many of the weaknesses of CONCOR (sev section E). The FY94/95
MOU between CONCOR and IR (currently agreed but awaiting review by the Department of Public
Enterprise before finalization) also begins to tackle the issue of reliability, speed and frequency of
services (see section F).
2.13       In order to deal with one of the most frequent complaints of the users, the current
system for settling claims should be thoroughly reformed to make CONCOR fully responsible for
settling claims with its customers, by assuming liabilities comparable to those provided by multi-
modal transport operators (MTO) competitors. The necessary arrangements were reviewed during
loan negotiations, and implementation would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
D. Financial Performance
2.14       CONCOR's business activities have grown rapidly since it began operating. The
number of TEUs handled has increased by almost 500 percent, from 26,511 (FY91/92) to 155,585
(FY93/94); over the same period, turnover has increased by more than 300 percent, from Rs 210
million to around Rs 900 million. CONCOR has also been profitable since it began operations, and
profits before taxes increased from Rs 48 million (FY91/92) to Rs 250 million (FY93/94), while
profits after tax incrased from Rs 32 million to Rs 173 million (see Table 1).
2.15       CONCOR has enjoyed a high level of profitability, with an operating ratio of 77
percent, a gross profit margin (profit before tax divided by total income) of 28 percent, a net profit
ratio of 19.2 percent and a return on equity of 27 percent during FY93/94. CONCOR has retained
most of its earning to finance its capital expenditure budget, and in FY92 it declared its first dividend
of Rs 5 million, which increased to Rs 17.5 million in FY93.



11
Table 1 CONCOR Financial Statements
Profit and Loss Account
(Rs millions as of March 31, 1993)
______________________________      FY90191        FY91/92         FY92/93
Operating Income                     186.6          500.0          811.0
Other Income                          23.5           44.7           88.5
Total Income                         210.1          544.7          899.5
Total Expes                          131.9          367.2          644.4
Profit before tax                     77.9          177.0          250.0
Tax                                  A461                           77.5
Profit After Tax                      31.8          110.8           172.8
Balance Sheet
(Rs millions as of March 31, 1993)     ______
_____________ ____________FY90/91         FY91/92        FY92/93
ASSETS
Curren Assets, Loans and Advances    159.80         304.80         325.30
Investments                          245.40        287.90          230.10
Fixed Assets                          7.80          10.70          257.20
Less Accmulated Depreciation          0.30           0.80           5.60
Net Fixed Assets                      7.50           9.90          251.60
Capital-Work in Progress             53.70          301.00         571.60
Miscellaneous                         1.10           1.10           1.00
Total Assets                         467.50         904.70        1379.40
LLABILITIES
Current Liabilities                  80.80          243.40         314.20
Loans                                 0.00           7.40           79.60
Reserves                             56.80          183.90         335.70
Shareholders Equity                  329.90        470.00          649.90
Total Liabilities and Equity         467.50         904.70        1379.40



12
E. Business and Finance Plan
2.16       CONCOR has prepared a five-year Business and Finance plan (FY93/94-FY97/98) that
sets out the corporaia objectives and resource mobilization strategy needed to implement the plan.
The salient features of the plan are that CONCOR plans to consolidate its market position through
rapid growth and profitability, while at the same time improving the quality of its services. In the
business plan, CONCOR has projected its container traffic at 470,000 TEUs by FY97198.
2.17       In order to achieve the growth targets set out in the business plan and improve its level
of service, CONCOR has prepared an accompanying resource mobilization plan. The resource
mobilization plan provides for investment of Rs 4,800 million over the next five years. CONCOR
plans to raise Rs 600 million through leasing of containers and other equipment, Rs 1,200 million
from retained earnings, and the remaining Rs 3,000 million from the proposed Bank loan. If the
business should grow faster than expected, the sale of new equity would be considered during the
latter years (not counting the sale of currently subscribed equity from which the revenues would not
accrue to CONCOR).
2.18       The breakdown of CONCOR's resource mobilization plan shows that more than 90
percent of the funds budgeted will be used for the purchase of new flatbed wagons and the purchase
and retrofit of existing flat wagons currently owned by IR, in order to ensure an adequate supply of
rolling stock for the expected container traffic. The balance will be spent on additional cargo
handling equipment and related infrastructure to improve both the productivity and capacity of
CONCOR.
2.19       The primary aim of the resource mobilization plan is to provide CONCOR with the
necessary hardware to greatly improve its service level and to increase capacity by financing modern
rolling stock for regular block train operations on the gateway port corridors, while at the same time
strengthening its commercial performance. The business plan together with the resource mobilization
plan will be updated annually to help CONCOR meet its long-term objectives. During loan
negotiations, agreement has been reached that CONCOR will make available to the Bank annually for
comment its updated Business and Finance Plan.
2.20       In order to provide a sound basis for its future financial, commercial and operational
performance, the Business and Finance Plan of CONCOR also provides for a gradual dilution of
CONCOR's equity (by as much as 35 percent after FY97/98) through the sale of currently subscribed
equity held in the name of the President of India or issuance of additional equity. An early sale of
shares on the market would tend to establish CONCOR as a separate commercial venture in the mind
of the public, further commercialize and institutionalize the relationship between IR and CONCOR,
and at the same time attract new shareholders-all of which should improve the image and market
orientadon of CONCOR. During loan negotiadons, the government anreed that a minimum of 5
percent of CONCOR's equity will be offered for sale to the public.
F. Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
2.21            In the past CONCOR and IR have jointly established guidelines for commercial,
operating and general arrangements. This process has been further strengthened through the
negotiation of an MOU between CONCOR and the Ministry of Railways to better define and monitor
performance targets and obligations. It should be noted that in India, MOUs are presently negotiated
amnually between each of the public enterprises and its parent or supervising ministry, with
commitments and performance targets limited to the year in question.
2.22            More specifically, in the draft MOU for FY94/95 IR has committed itself to
operatimg scheduled unit contaix   -ins between TKD and JNPI/BPT and between TKD and HOM.



13
A planned 25 trains will be operated each month between BPT (average transit time of 69 hours), 22
trains per month between JNPT and TKD (85 hours), and 8 trains per month between HOM and TK)
(126 hours). This schedule is compared to an average of 105, 131 and 160 hours (respectively)
during the first nine months of FY93/94. Even more importantly from the users point of view is the
reliability of transit times. For example, the average transit time in December 1993 varied between
52 and 235 hours on the TKD-BPT run and between 78 and 285 hours, TKD-JNPT. Substantial
reductions are also expected in the turnaround times at TKD and the gateway ports. Of the planned
scheduled trains, each corridor will operate a substantial number of guaranteed transit time trains.
According to the MOU if the guaranteed transit time is met by IR, CONCOR will pay a 5 percent
prenium to IR; conversely, if the guaranteed transit time is not met, IR will give CONCOR a 5
percent discount on its standard tariff rate.
2.23             The MOU also sets out the operational targets that CONCOR must attain. Specific
profitability, traffic and turnover targets have been established for CONCOR. The performance of
CONCOR and its management is then evaluated at the end of the year to how well the targets have
been met (or exceeded). Annex 2.1 provides a summary of the key provisions included in the draft
MOU for FY94/95.
2.24             The MOU will become the fundamental instrument for commercializing the
relatronship between IR and CONCOR, and it is envisaged that, in line with current Indian
procedures, it will be updated annually to reflect changes in basic elements related to productivity,
quality of service and profitability of CONCOR, and the level of service provided by IR. The main
features of the draft FY94/95 MQU were confirmed during loan negotiation. Agreement was also
reached that satisfactory MOUs will be maintained during the implementation of the proiect. and that
future draft MOUs will be furnished to the Bank by end April of each year.
2.25             To secure the third link in the performance chain, CONCOR also needs to
negotiate arrangements with each of the three gateway ports (JNPT, BPT and HOM) for improving
turnaround time of flat wagons at the ports. During loan negotiations CONCOR agreed to enter into
an agreement with each gateway port by December 31. 1994.
G. Financial Projections
2.26             For a relatively young and rapidly expanding company, CONCOR has a strong
balance sheet. In FY93/94, CONCOR had an equity base of almost Rs 1,000 million and only
approximately Rs 80 million in long-term debt, giving it a very low debt to equity ratio of .08:1. In
addition, for the same year, CONCOR's debt service coverage ratio was around 20:1 and its current
ratio was 1.7:1. The low leverage and relatively high liquidity position of CONCOR means that it
will be able without any further capital increases to mobilize and service a substantially higher level
of debt than at present.
2.27             According to CONCOR's projections, by FY97/98 it will be handling 470,000
TEU's representing a 25 percent annual growth in traffic. Taking into account the expected rapid
growth in India's trade (over 10 percent per year in real terms) together with the still low
containerization rate, this figure could tum out to be on the conservative side. If the projected growth
in the market materializes and CONCOR manages to improve both the quality and cost efficiency of
its services, it should be able to maintain its current high levels of profitability and a reasonably
leveraged balance she!et. More importantly, it should be able to generate enough resources to service
its increased debt comnitments caused by the implementation of the Rs 4,800 million capital
expenditure component of the FY93/94-FY97/98 Business and Finance Plan. During loan agreements
CONCOR agreed to specific financial covenants to the effect that CONCOR shall: (a) not incur any
debt unless CONCOR shows that the projected mternal cash generation of CONCOR for each fiscal
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.7 times the estimated debt service



14
requirements of CONCOR in such year on all its debt including the debt to be incurred; (b) not incur
any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 3: 1; (c)
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1:1; (d) from time to time take
all such measures within its power, as shall be required to enable CONCOR to meet as of its fiscal
year beginning April 1, 1994, a working ratio of not more than 83 percent; and (e) maintain a rate of
return on average current net value of fixed assets of at least 17 percent.
2.28             An element that could weaken CONCOR's continued strong financial performance
and its ability to service a higher debt load is the basis on which IR land currently leased by
CONCOR is valued. Originally, it was decided to determine lease charges for land leased by
CONCOR from IR based, on the book value of the land. However, subsequently, IR has claimed that
the basis of valuation for lease charges for land should be related to market value rather than book
value. A final agreement on this subject has not yet been reached between CONCOR and IR, and it
has been estimated that the fixation of lease charges on the basis of current market rather than book
value of the IR land currently leased by CONCOR would have a substantial impact on the financial
performance of CONCOR
m. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Origin
3.1        The initial assessment for the proposed project was a sector survey (Trade Logistics,
report no. 8130-IN), carried out in 1989 by the Bank, in close cooperation with relevant ministries,
transport operators, and shippers. Key recommendations were that the Government should: (a) enact
legislation regarding multi-modal transport; (b) relax the customs procedures and regulations that
precluded the operation of private bonded warehouses and impeded container transport by road; (c)
develop ICDs and improved air cargo facilities; (d) promote private sector investment in container
facilities and equipment; (e) review regulations that restrict the ability of Indian ship operators to
adapt to market requirements; (f) review rail tariffs that seem to discriminate against containerized
cargo; and (g) improve the efficiency of container handling at Indian ports.
3.2        Since the completion of the survey, and particularly since 1991, the government has
taken many important steps to deal with the weaknesses identified, for instance in adopting a
Multimodal Transport of Goods Act (1993), opening ICD/CFSs to the private sector, improving port
facilities, moving to greater private sector participation in port operations, and beginning to reduce
some of the procedural constraints affecting container transport. However, much more needs to be
done to improve the capacity and efficiency of container transport in India.
B. Rationale and Objectives
3.3        Rationale The proposed project forms part of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(report # P-6141-IN) which focuses on supporting GOI's efforts to provide an enabling environment
for broad-based efficient private sector-led growth while accelerating poverty alleviation and the
development of human resources, will be discussed on May 12, 1994. It also forms part of the Bank's
strategy of promoting exports, increasing efficiency, promoting institutional capacity, and building
competition in the transport sector in India. In particular, the development of international container
transport is higbly management-intensive and requires a commercial and institutional framework that
is not yet complete in India. The Bank and the bilateral assistance from The Netherlands would assist
in transferring relevant overseas experience in the technology of container handling and tiansport,
which would improve the institutional capabilities of CONCOR as well as of the industry. It would
also enable CONCOR to become a fully competitive and financially sound



15
enterprise, pernitting it to finance its future requirements on the lomestic capital markets through
either debt or equity financing.
3.4        Project Objectives: The overall objective of the project is to establish an enabling
environment for container transport and increase the capacity and efficiency of long-haul transport of
high-value general cargo. More specifically, the proposed project would:
(a)  improve the institutional framework for efficient and comnpetitive container transport to
serve both foreign and domestic trade;
(b)  strengthen the commercial and operational performance of CONCOR in an increasingly
competitive environment; and
(c)   greatly improve the service level and capacity in the main corridors by providing
modem technology rolling stock to permit regular block train operations on gateway port
corridors.
C. Project Description
3.5        The proposed project would help develop the necessary framework for container
transport. The project would include three major complementary components:
(a)  IMnrovement of the institutional framework for efficient and competitive container
transport by removing some of the restrictive customs practices and policies restricting
inland movements of containers, including by road, and expanding customs working
hours at TKD (see customns reform as described in para. 1.29).
(b)   Strengthenin2 of the commercial approach and operational capacity of CONCOR in an
increasingly competitive environment by:
(i) formalizing service relations with IR through a MOU relating to service levels of
container trains;
(ii) divesting at least 5 percent of the Government's equity in CONCOR, as a first
step to diversifying the shareholder base and strengthening its commercial
orientation;
(iii) broadening the composition of the Board of Directors of CONCOR to introduce
non-official directors to improve the skill base of the Board;
(iv) reforming CONCOR's claim policy to meet customers demand and be competitive
with road transport;
(v) providing technical assistance and training to improve CONCOR's operational,
commercial, financial and general management capabilities, with particular
attention to the operations at TKD; and
(vi) providing computer systems and related software to computerize accounting and
inventory control and providing commercial logistic support to CONCOR.
(c)   Support scheduled highL-ualitv container train services in the main corridors through:
(i) acquisition and retrofitting of 1,200 BFK flat cars to air brakdng systems;



16
(ii) acquisition of 1,500 new container flat cars of new design prepared by the
Research, Design and Standards Organization (RDSO) that are equipped with air
brakes, automatic couplers and high-speed bogies (100 KPH zapability);
(iii) acquisition of 5 prototype 60-foot long platform, lightweight flat wagonblocks
capable of carrying three loaded 20-foot ISO containers, which utilize automatic
couplers on end units and slackness drawbars for intermediate couplings, for
testing purposes in preparation for the next generation of higher capacity flatcar;
(iv)  acquisition of approximately 750 new flat cars of the same design as under (ii) or
an equivalent capacity of the new designs under (iii) above if the design has been
approved by the time of starting procurement;
(v) acquisition of complementary cargo handling equipment for TKKD ICD, including
I rubber-tired gantry crane (having a span of 26.5 meters to bridge four tracks
and one roadway); 2 reach stackers; and 5 tractor/trailer trucks :o handle
containers from trackside and serve the CFS warehouses;
(vi) acquisition of an electronic tracking system for container trains, flat cars and
containers on a pilot basis;
(vii) construction of civil works necessary for completing development of Tughlakabad
and construction of ICDs at Ludhiana and Hyderabad to better serve emerging
markets; and
(viii) provision of engineering services for design, inspection and testing of flat cars.
D. Proiect Cost
3.6        The total cost of the project is presently estimated to be US$ 151 million, which includes
US$ 19 million of price contingencies. The cost estimate includes taxes and custom duties of US$ 15
million on imported materials and equipment as well as domestic taxes. CONCOR's Business and
Finance Plan currently foresees a Bank loan of approximately US$ 94 million to meet the foreign
exchange costs of flat cars and cargo handling and other equipment, as well as part of the local cost
thereof. The Netherlands have agreed to provide grant funding of about US$ 4 million equivalent for
the technical assistance component for operational support and tmining Annex 3.2. The cost estimates
are detailed in Annex 3.3.
3.7        Cost estimates are on the basis of late-1993 prices of comparable equipment. The civil
work costs are based on preliminary designs. Local price contingencies are applied to the estimated
base costs in the following order: 7.0 percent for 1994, 6.5 percent for 1995, 6.0 percent for 1996
and 5.5 percent for 1997. Foreign price contingencies were applied to the estimated base costs in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines: 2.5 percent for 1994 through 1997. As the Bank-funded
project components basically involve equipment, no physical contingencies were included.
E. Proiect Financing
3.8        The total cost of the project is estimated to be about US$ 136.8 million, excluding taxes
and duties. Of this total amount, US$ 34.7 million will be for foreign exchange components, and the
remaining US$ 102.1 million for local currency components. The Bank would finance US$ 94
million of the foreign exchange and local component for flat cars, some other equipment and a
provision for complementing technical assistance and training to the extent that this is not covered by
The Netherlands assistance. The Netherlands would finance US$ 4 million of the foreign exchange



17
component of technical assistance, and the remaining US$ 53 million would be financed by CONCOR
through internally generated resources or leasinig.
F. Proiect Imolementation
3.9        CONCOR will implement the main components of the project, particularly the
procurement of flat cars and other equipment and the related institutional components. Close
coordination and cooperation with IR will be needed to cnsure the expected performance
improvements as foreseen under the draft MOU for FY94/95. The broader institutional component
related to customs procedures and practices will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance in
consultation with the Ministry of Commerce and Ministry of Surface Transport. While CONCOR
would be the recipient of the technical assistance, the Dutch government would contract with the
consulting firm. Project procurement is expected to be started shortly after loan negotiations and the
project should be completed by June 30, 1999. Annex 3.4 and Chart 3.1 contains the provisional
Implementation Schedule for the procurement of the different project components, taking into account
CONCOR's estimate of the time required for RDSO and IR approvals where necessary. In view of
the rapid increase, in CONCOR's activities and the current shortage of flat cars, carefut attention
should be given to measures to accelerate preparation of tender documents and the necessary.
approvals before tendering and testing of the RDSO and the tri-axle prototypes. Close collaboration
between CONCOR on the one hand and RDSO and IR on the other will be essential to avoid undue
delays in project implementation that would have a negative impact of CONCOR's revenues and
competitive situation. The schedule was reviewed and confirmed during loan negotiations.
3.10       Annex 3.5 summarizes the key performance indicators for CONCOR, drawing on the
targets already established in the draft MOU for FY94/95 and in the Business and Finance Plan.
These indicators were discussed and confirmed durng loan negotiations and will be reviewed and
updated as appropriate during project implementation.
3.11       In line with current Bank practice, a mid-term review of the project will be carried out
jointly with CONCOR and the government. During loan negotiations CONCOR and the government
agreed to a mid-term review by December 31. 1995. During negotiations the Indian delegation
confirmed that the bilateral agreement with The Netherlands for technical assistance for Part D of the
Project is effective; and The Netherlands would be the contracting party to the consultant contract.
The Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed that the selection process had been completed
and a firm of consultants had indeed been selected for invitation for contract negotiations and that
field work started in June 1994.
G. Procurement
3.12       The rolling stock, equipment and goods to be financed by the Bank and expected to cost
the equivalent of US$ 200,000 or more per contract package will be procured following international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. The Bank's standard bidding document for goods will be used.
For rolling stock (flat cars) a two-stage bidding process will be adopted. Domestic bidders competing
under ICB will have 15 percent preference margin or the applicable duty, whichever is lower, if they
meet the domestic value-added requirements. Consultants funded with loan proceeds would be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.13       Procurement of items required for the retrofit-braking system of 1,200 BFK flat cars, all
civil works, engineering services, and computer software systems will be financed by CONCOR
under their own procurement procedures. The technical assistance under the project will be funded
under The Netherlands Grant using their own procurement procedures.



18
3.14       All bid documents and award decisions for the supply of goods financed by the Bank
with an estimated cost of US$ 200,000 or more will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Since all
contracts are expected to exceed this level, 100 percent of the contract packaging for goods/equipment
will be subject to prior Bank review.
3.15       CONCOR will be using the services of officers from IR who ate fully conversant with
the Bank's ICB procedures of procurement. CONCOR will use the standard Bank bidding documents
for goods, adjusted as necessary, to take into account country and project conditions, along with
technical specifications for rolling stock and other equipment for procurement with Bank funding.
Draft bidding documents, including specifications for the first tranche of flat cars and cargo handling
equipment have been received as this was a condition of loan negotiations. Specifications for the
second tranche of flat cars will be prepared following the testing of the new tri-axle flat cars.
3.16       Procurement information will be collected and reported by CONCOR for the following:
(a)   Contract award information;
(b)  Comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank, indicating
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including best
estimates of allowances for price contingency;
(ii) revised time of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
award and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii) a compietion report within three months of the loan closing date.
3.17       A summary of the procurement arrangements is indicated in Table 2. These were
confirmed during loan negtiations.



19
Table 2 Sunmary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions equivalent)
S. No.        Project Element            Procurement Method           NBF(a)        Total Cost
l______________               ICB       LCB       Othets
1.      Works                                                          12.1(b)        12.1(b)
2.       Goods and Equipment
2.1      New rolling stock             101.1                                          101.1
(2,250)                      (91.1)                                         (91.1)
2.2      Five tri-axle flatcar for                          0.6(c)                      0.6
testing                                           (0.5)                       (0.5)
2.3      Purchase of 1,200 used                                         23.1(b)       23.1(b)
BFK flat cars
2.4      Retrofit braking system of                                      4. l(b)       4. l(b)
l____   1,200 BFK flat cars
2.5      Handling equipment              2.3                              1.0(b)        3.3
(1.8)                                          (1.8)
2.6      Trucks, chassis and other                                       0.2(b)         0.2(b)
equipment
2.7      Computers and software                                          0.6(b)         0.6(b)
2.8      Transponders and related        0.5                                             0.5
equipment                     (0.4)                                           (0.4)
3.       Technical Assistance
3.1      Capacity Building and                              0.2          4.0(d)         4.2(d)
______  Training          ________    ________    (0.2)                       (0.2)
3.2      Project Preparation and                                         1.2(b)         1.2(b)
Imnplementation Support
Grand Total                  103.9                 0.8         46.3          151.0
(93.3)              (0.7)                      (94.^'
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate amount financed by Bank. The order of these notes are:
a.    Not Bank financed.
b.    Financed by CONCOR.
c.    Procurement of the prototype tn-axle flatcar for testing purposes may be acquired either
through ICB or from the proprietary manufacturer.
d.    Financed under The Netherlands Grant.



20
H. Disbursement
3.18       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign expenditures
cost insurance freight (CIF) or 100 percent of local expenditure ex factory and of items procured
under ICB, costs of flat wagons, cargo handling equipment, and other equipment, and 100 percent for
technical assistance and training. This was confirmed durine loan negotiations.
3.19       Disbursements are projected for a period of 5.5 years from July 1, 1994 to December
1999. Project completion is expected by June 30, 1999. The proposed disbursement period of six
years compares with an all-sector past profile of 8.5 years and a transportation sector profile of 9.5
years. The shorter disbursement period in this case is justified by the general progress made in
improving project implementation procedures in India, including the use of agreed standard bidding
documents. The project mainly finances equipment and consultant services and not civil works, which
tend to have a longer implementation period, and will be implemented by a company with a more
commercial approach than often found in the public sector. Also, tender documents will be prepared
and part of procurement started before Board presentation. It is expected that the main project
component of flat cars will be procured in two phases with a two-three years interval to allow for
traffic growth. The disbursement schedule is contained in Annex 3.6.
3.20       It is expected that all disbursements would be fully documented and there would be no
disbursements against statements of expenditures. The borrower has indicated that there would be no
need for a special account. Expenditures incurred from January 1, 1994 to the date of loan signing for
project activities would be eligible for retroactive fincing up to a maximum of US$ S million. All
contracts and items to be fmanced retroactively will be procured in a manner consistent with the
above arrangements and acceptable to the Bank. The closing date of the loan is December 31, 1999.
I. Economic Evaluation and Risks
3.21       The economic evaluation prepared by CONCOR covered the two main project
components, i.e. retrofitting of 1,200 ex-sting flat cars (to be funded by CONCOR) and the
acquisition of 2,250 new flat cars to be funded with the help of the Bank loan. The economnic
evaluation of the retrofitting is based primarily on the reduced operating/maintenance costs because of
fewer breakdowns and the increased carrying capacity because of the higher speeds. The component
yields an ERR of 33 percent as discussed further in Annex 3.7. The economic evaluation of the new
flat cars takes into account the additional carrying capacity provided by these cars and the cost
savings as compared with road traiisport over the three main corridors for which the weighted average
distance is about 1,600 km. As discussed further in Annex 3.7, the rate of return for this component
is 37 percent. In the event of a combined increase in investment costs of 10 percent and a reduction
in benefits of 10 percent. the ERRs would fall to respectively 27 percent, 31 percent, indicating that
the project has a high economic rate of return. Further information on the sensitivity analysis,
including switching values is given in Annex 3.7.
3.22       The above returns are conservative since they do not take into account several benefits
that are difficult to quantify. These include the costs of avoided accidents and pollution as compared
with road transport and the fact that real vehicle operating costs can be expected to increase
significantly over time as a result of increasing traffic congestion. Because of their modest costs and
the problem of separating out benefits from the incremental supply of cargo handling equipment
transponders to rack flat cars and technical assistance, no separate economic evaluation was carried
out for these items accounting for a combined 5 percent of the project cost. CONCOR has carried out
a preliminary financial evaluation of the rate of return from the additional civil works to be funded
from its ovn resources. It is presently updating and completing this evaluation for the Bank.



21
3.23       The main ris related to the project is that the expected improvements in CONCOR's
performance will not be achieved due to insufficient support from IR in providing needed block train
paths and traction power. The recently negotiated draft MOU represents a major step forward in
recognizing the importance of speedy and reliable container service and the readiness of IR to accept
performance related premiums and penalties. The covenant regarding provision of annually updated
MOUs is intended to further reduce this risk. A second risk concerns the commercial approach and
efficiency of CONCOR in responding to market demands. The steps being taken to formalize the
commercial relationship with IR, the up-front offer for sale of a share of equity to the public and the
introduction of non-official Board members should jointly reinforce the commercial approach of
CONCOR. The extensive Dutch technical assistance that covers both the operations at TKD and
general manpower development, cost accounting and financial management as well as marketing
should also contribute substantially to improving the efficiency of CONCOR and its commercial
approach. A third risk concerns the rate of traffic growth and the financial implications of lower
traffic growth. This risk is significantly reduced by the fact that almost 80 percent of its operating
expenses are variable (mainly payments to IR) and would therefore decline or increase in line with
traffic. Also, the acquisition of the second tranche of flat cars can be deferred or advanced in line
with traffic growth. A fourth related and longer term financial risk concerns the foreign exchange risk
of debt repayment in the event of further devaluation of the Rs. A significant devaluation would,
however, also affect the cost of road transport, particularly fuel, and it can therefore be assumed that
such an event should not significantly affect CONCOR's competitive position.
J. Enviromental InMact
3.24       The environmental impact of most of the project components will be positive, and the
proposed project as been given a category "B" environmental assessment rating. This was basically
due to the inclusion of some modest civil works that will be fully fimded by CONCOR. During loan
negotiations, CONCOR indicated that the civil works in question (a) were already under contract or
tendering and were being funded ftilly by the Borrower and the scope of the works had been
significantly reduced as compared with what was earlier foreseen; (b) they did not involve acquisition
and clearing of new land; and (c) they mostly involved paving of existing unpaved areas and
construction of some small building and would in themselves have positive environmental impacts.
Construction activities will be monitored by CONCOR for any adverse enviromental impacts and
hazards to worker safety and that the responsible contractor(s) will be directed to make immediate and
effective corrective actions when the need arises. As a result of the project, substantal amounts of
freight currently moved by truck in break bulk on the highly congested HDC highways will move in
containers over the existing rail network, reducing road congestion, POL consumption, vehicle
emissions, and accidents. In addition, the acquisition of new high-speed flat cars will permit a higher
and more efficient utilizaton of the existing railway trunk network that is strained to capacity and will
delay the need to construct or convert railway lines.
3.25       At present, no new land needs to be acquired by CONCOR to meet its medium-term
traffic growth projections. With improved procedures and operations the existing facilities operated by
CONCOR at TKD/ICD are sufficient for their projected traffic growth for at least the next three to
four-years, depending on demand. Additional land is available if needed.
K. Monitoring and Au&iM
3.26       CONCOR will prepare quarterly progress reparts in a fo!at acceptable to the Bank.
These reports should indicate progress made in meeting performance indicators, problems
encountered, remedial steps required, and proposed future actions. The last of these reports will be
the implementation completion report (ICR), which would be issued no later than six months after
physical completion of the works. The ICR will include, inter alia, the details of project costs and
disbursements, general characteristics of project execution and benefits, the degree to which project



22
objectives were achieved, and the performance of both the Bank and CONCOR of their respective
obligations. To facilitate the preparation of the ICR and to assess the actual efficiency of the new
rolling stocks, CONCOR will keep separate records, as part of the progress reports, on the
utilization and efficiency of these rolling stocks. 'lhe reporting requirements were confirmed during
negotiadons. The sample outline of contents of the Quarterly Report was also agreed to Annex 3.8.
3.27       CONCOR shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices and adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition. It shall also
(a) have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses, and related statements) audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistentlv applied; (b) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than seven months after the end of each fiscal year, certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and the report of such audit by said
auditors; (c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request. CONCOR agreed during negotiations to these requirements.
3.28       The plan for Bank supervision of the project is presented in Annex 3.9. An average of
14 staff weeks per year will be required with a heavier input of 21 staff weeks during the first full
year, including three staff weeks for follow-up regvarding the customs procedures and one staff week
for coordination with the Netherlands Government regarding the technical assistance funded by them.
This would be offset by a tapering off from 12 staff weeks during the second year: 10 staff weeks for
the subsequent years.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1        At loan negotiation assurances were obtained that CONCOR will:
(a)   Establish in consultation with IR new claims settlement arrangements to be implemented
before loan effectiveness (para 2.13);
(b)   Submit to the Bank for comments annually (beginning in February 28., 1995) the updated
Business and Finance Plan (para 2.19);
(c)   Maintain during the execution of the project a satisfactory MOU and to this end furmish
annually revised version of the MOU to the Bank (pam 2.24);
(d) Enter into agreements by December 31, 1994 with the three gateway ports to ensure
expeditious loading/discharging of container flat wagons (para 2.25);
(e) Take all necessary steps from FY95 onwards to achieve specific financial targets (para
2.27);
(f)   Conduct together with the Bank a mid-term project review by December 31, 1995 (para
3.11);
(g) Implement the project in accordance with agreed procurement procedures (para 3.17);
(h)   Follow agreed disbursement procedures (para 3.18);
(i)   Comply with agreed reporting requirements (para 3.26);



23
)   Submit on an annual basis, within seven months of the end of its fiscal year, audited
accounts (para 3.27);
4.2        At loan negotiations understandings was reached that CONCOR will:
(a)  Implement the project in accordance with the implementation schedule agreed during
negotiations (para 3.9); and
(b)   Achieve agreed performance targets (para 3.10);
4.3        At loan negotiations assurances were obtained from the government that it will:
(a) implement agreed measures concerning inland movemenits of containers in accordance
with the agreed timing (para 1.29);
(b)   broaden the composition of the Board of Directors of CONCOR in accordance with DPE
guidelines and that this will be implemented before loan effectiveness (para 2.3);
(c)   offer for sale to the public 5 percent of its equity in CONCOR by March 31, 1995 (para
2.20);
(d)  maintain during the execution of the project a satisfactory MOU (para 2.24);
(e)  carry out together with CONCOR and the Bank a mid-term review of the project by
December 31, 1995 (para 3.11);
(f)   provide the nomnal loan guarantees.
4.4        The following are special conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)   CONCOR's Board of Directors shall have been broadened (para 2.3); and
(b)   CONCOR has implemented a new claims policy (para 2.13).
4.5        Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank Loan
of US$ 94 million equivalent to CONCOR for 20 years including a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.



24                                                     Annex 1.1
INDIA
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
BANK LOANS AND CREDITS TO TRANSPORTATION SECTOR"
Loan/Credit    Approval    Closing     Loan
Sector       Project Name                      Number         Date       Date      Amount       Status
RAIL         Railway                           Ln  17         8/49       3/51       34.00     Completed
Second Railway                  Las 167-170      7/57       12/58      90/01     Completed
Third Railway                    Ln 207          9/58       6/59       85.00     Completed
Fourth Railway                   Ln 233          7/59       6/60       50.00     Completed
Fifth Railway                    Ln 262          7/60       1/62       70.00     Completed
Sixth Railway                    Ln 298         10161       12/62      50.00     Completed
Seventh Railway Eighth Railway    Cr 36          3/63       8/64       t 1.43    Completed
Ninth Railway                     Cr 67         10/64       1/66       74.79     Completed
Tenth Railway                     Cr 88          6/66       6/68       82.03     Completed
Eleventh Railway                 Cr 162          9/69       9/71       66.35     Competed
Twelfth Railway                   Cr 280         1/72       9n4        79.98     Completed
Railway Moder. & Maintenance     Cr 448         12/73       9/75       80.00     Completed
Second Railway Modem &           Cr 582          8n5        9/78      110.00    Completed
Main.                            Cr 844          8n8        9/89      190.00    Completed
Cr 1299        11/82      9/89      253.63    Completed
Railway Electrification          Ln 2210        11/82       9/92      200.00    Completed
Third Rail Modernization         Ln 2417         5/84       9/92      280.70    Completed
Ln 2935        5/88       2/94      390.00      Ongoing
2267.92
Subtotal
PORT         Calcutta Port                     La 198         4/58       12/65      29.00     Completed
Madras Port                       Ln 199         4/58       6/66       14.00     Completed
Second Calcutta Port             Ln 294          7/61       7/68       21.00     Completed
Bombay Port                       Cr 27          7/62       12/67      21.09     Completed
India Shipping                   Cr 328          372        6/75       84.69     Completed
Ln 2387        3/84       6/92      250.00    Completed
Subtotal                                         419.78
ROADS        Road                              Cr  3          6/61       6/67       72.11     Completed
Bihar Rural Roads                Cr 1072        11/80       6/87       36.66     Completed
National Highways I              La 2534         5/85       12/92     200.00    Completed
Gujarat Rural Roads              Cr 1757         2/86       12/94     138.69      Ongoing
State Roads I                    Ln 2994        10/88       6/95      170.00      Ongoing
Cr 1995       10/88       6/95       80.00      Ongoing
National Highways ]               Ln 3470        5/92      6/2001     153.00      Ongoing
Cr 2365        5/92      6/2001      153.00     Ongoing
1003.46
Subtotal
AIR          Air India                         Ln 161         3/57       12/59      56        Completed
PIPELiNE    Petroleum Transport Project       Ln 3044         4/89       6/95      340.00      Ongoing
Total                                         4036.76
'Excluding operations for urban transport.



25
Annex 2. 1
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROIECT
SUMMARY OF DRAFT FISCAL FY94/95 MOU
between
Container Corporation of India, Ltd.
and
Ministry of Railways
1.         Corporate Mission: Multi-modal logistics support for international and intemal trade and
commerce.
2.         Corporate Objectives: Promote containerization, develop cost-effective service for
containers, and provide competitive prices and reasonable return on capital.
3.         CONCOR's commitments for FY94-95:
(a)   Throughput of 250,000 TEUs;
(b) Generate internal surplus of Rs 300 million and 15 percent return on capital employed;
and
(c)   Others (contained in Annex to MOU).
4.         Assistance from Ministry of Railways:
(a)   Support in interface with State and Central Government;
(b)  Provide unit container train pathways on specified rail corridors to achieve average rail
transit times of:
i. TKD-BPT 69 hours;
ii. TKD-JNPT 85 hours; and
iii. TKD-HOM 126 hours
(c)   Provide a minimum number of special weekly paths with reduced transit lines:
i. TKD-BPT 4 at 62 hours;
ii. TIKD-JNPT 2 at 78 hours; and
iii. TKD- HOM 2 at 120 hours
(d)  Provide at least 1,000 rail flat cars (BFKs) and/or modified unloadable BOX wagons.
5.         Premium of 5 percent to be paid by CONCOR for the special paths if schedules are
maintained by IR; if not, CONCOR will receive 5 percent discount.



26
Annex 2.2
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF CONCOR
A. Financial Projections For Base Case Scenario
1.         The key assumption of the base case scenario financial projections prepared by
CONCOR is that they will be handling 470,000 TEUs by FY97/98 and 688,127 TEUs by FY2001/02
(see table 2.2.5). The average proje.Aed growth in traffic for the whole period is 19 percent and is
divided into two distinct growth phases. The "high growth" phase ends in FY97/98 with the volume
of TEUs handled growing at over 25 percent per year. The "market consolidation growth" phase is
projected for the subsequent period (FY97/98 through FY2001/02) and will see CONCOR growing at
around 10 percent per year as the market matures and competition increases.
2.         The growth in traffic will lead to an even higher growth in operating revenues, as
CONCOR will be able to charge higher rates as the quality of service improves. Operating expenses
during the forecast period are expected to grow at a slower rate than operating revenues, leading to a
slight improvement in the working ratio. The assumption behind this is that, as a result of the project,
CONCOR will start to own most of its roiling stock and thereby be able to benefit from a 16 percent
reduction in freight charges under IR's "own your own wagon scheme."
3.         However, total expenses are expected to increase more rapidly than total revenues,
leading to a modest deterioration in CONCOR's overall profitability. According to the base case
scenario, this deterioration in the overall profitability of CONCOR is attributable to the sharp increase
in depreciation and interest charges caused by the implementation of its capital investment program
under the FY93194-FY97198 business plan.
4.         More importantly, as result of implementing the capital investment program, CONCOR
wMl also experience a deterioration in its debt, liquidity and leverage ratios (see table 2.2.4) as its
debt service requirements increase rapidly from the current very low levels. However, in the base
case scenario, CONCOR is projecting that the expected deterioration in its financial position will still
leave it with a fairly strong balance sheet and an adequate level of profitability. A closer look at the
prncipal ratios shows that the debt to equity ratio is expected to peak at approximately 2:1 in
FY96/97, while the debt service coverage ratio will not fall below 2.3:1 and the net profit ratio
should not drop below 10 percent. These are more than satisfactory for a rapidly expanding company
like CONCOR.
5.         Finally, part of the capital expenditure program is going to be financed by a World Bank
loan in foreign exchange. CONCOR in its base case projections is forecasting a annual 5 percent
depreciation in the Rs vis a vis the US dollar. This means that the foreign exchange risk of borrowing
from the Bank is built into the debt repayment projections for the model.
B. Financial Projectic.zs For Alternative Scenarios
6.         The second scenario assumes a 10 percent decrease in the projected rate of growth of
CONCOR's total revenue together with a 8 percent decrease (8 percent was used, because
approximately 80 percent of CONCOR's operating expenses are variable costs) in the projected
growth rate in operating expenses. The results of the first scenario (see table 2.2.4) show CONCOR's
financial position deteriorating somewhat. The key debt to equity ratio increases to approximately



27
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 3
2.2:1 in FY97 and the debt service coverage ratio falls to approximately 1.9:1 by FY95/96. The
working ratio and net profit ratios are lower for the period, indicating that CONCOR still remains
profitable, with a net profit ratio falling to a minimum of 7 percent. From a cash flow point of view,
CONCOR's financial posidon deteriorates considerably, with negative end of,period cash balances
from FY96 through FY2000/01. The deterioration in the cash flow position of CONCOR is
attributable to the heavy capital investment program and the resulting increased debt service
obligations. Under the first scenario, if CONCOR maintains the current planned level of capital
expenditure, it would face liquidity problems especially during the FY94/95-FY96/97 period when
the capital expenditure program is at its peak. To meet the obligations during this period CONCOR
would probably have to arrange short-term bridge financing to bolster its liquidity position. However,
as indicated in paragraph 9, CONCOR could in this case cut pari of its capital expenditure program
and thus reduce its financial obligations.
7.         The third scenario foresees a 20 percent decrease in the projected rate of growth in total
revenues for CONCOR matched by a corresponding 16 percent fall in operating expenses. Under this
scenario, CONCOR's financial position would deteriorate considerably even though the company
would still remain moderately profitable. The working ratio would fall to 85 percent while the net
profit ratio would drop to a little above 2 percent. Although under the second scenario CONCOR is
still projected to remain profitable the cash flow and liquidity position of the company would become
cntical. The workig ratio drops to zero in FY95/96 and FY96/97 as the company's cash position
becomes negative. The sharp deterioration in the liquidity position would lead to difficulties in the
ability of the company to meet its day-to-day operating requirements due to a lack of working capital.
Under the second scenario, the debt position of CONCOR also deteriorates, but is not yet critical.
The key debt to equity ratio peaks at only 2.8 in FY96/97, and the debt service coverage ratio falls to
around 1.6. The consequences of the second scenario on CONCOR's cash flow position means that
the company would have major difficulty meeting its financial obligations. This is because even
though CONCOR would still be profitable and the debt position of the company would not be critical,
the company would not generate sufficient cash from its operations to meet its increased debt service
and capital investment obligations. A substantial reduction in the capital expenditure budget would
enable CONCOR to remain financially viable.
8.        The fourth scenario predicts a 10 percent increase in total revenues (together with a 8
percent increase in operating revenues) above what is projected in the base case scenario. With this
scenario the financial position of CONCOR is strengthened substantially leaving it with enough
resources to increase its capital expenditure program if demand justifies it. Its debt to equity ratio
under this scenario does not exceed 1.5:1 while the average net value of fixed assets employed
remains above 20 percent. The already good profitability of CONCOR would increase further with a
working ratio not increasing above 75 percent and a net profit ratio substantially above 13 percent for
the whole period (with increases to over 20 percent in the later part of the period). The cash flow and
liquidity position of the company would be substantally reinforced, with the current ratio increasing
from a low of 1.9:1 during the period. This scenario would mean that CONCOR should not have any
major difficulties in meeting its fiacial obligations even during the peak period of the capital
expenditure program, and the working capital position of the company would be quite strong.
C. CONCLUSIONS
9.         The sensitivity analysis conducted on CONCOR's strong financial base case scenario,
shows a modest sensitivity to fluctuations in revenues and expenses at the 10 percent level but a much
greater sensitivity at higher deviations. From the results it is fairly clear that a deviation of over 10
percent from the projected values in the base case scenario would have significant repercussions on



28
Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 3
the company's financial position. This is especially true for the company's cash flow position that
would deteriorate so much that CONCOR would have difficulty meeting its financial obligations.
However, what needs to be kept in mind is the flexible nature of CONCOR's capital expenditure
program. The bulk of the capital expenditure program is the acquisition and retrofit in batches of
rolling stock over a three to four year period. This means that if traffic projections are substantially
below projections, CONCOR would not need part of the additional rolling stock, enabling it to cancel
part of its acquisition of rolling stock in line with actual demand. The converse holds true, meaning
that CONCOR could procure more rolling stock in the batches if traffic volumes are above the
projected demand level. In addition, because around 80 percent of CONCOR's operating expenses are
variable, a fall in traffic that causes a fall in operating revenues would be matched by a fall in
operating expenses. What all this iniplies is that due to the cost structure of the company and the
staggered nature of its capital investment program, CONCOR has substantial flexibility to adjust to
lower or higher levels of revenue, decreasing its sensitivity.



CONCOR
Base Case Balance Sheet
(In Rs MiSons. Financia Yea Endh March 31)
1993    1994     1996     1996    1997      1998    1999    2000    2001        2002
ASSETS
Cash Balances:     133.80    31.9    43.2      45.6    49.3      44.9    46.9    50.6    53.7        61.6
Invtments:         230.10   160.10     0        90     240.00   800.00   1440.00    202    2.700    3,680
Current Assets:    191.60    179      175      181      238      297      360      437      532      649
Miscellaneous:       0.9      0.7      0.5      0.3     0.1       0        0        0        0        0
Fixed Assets:       257.2   896.3   1677.4  3668.5   5123.2   5628.3   6164.7   8664.9  7161.1   7668.1
Less: Depreciation:  6.6     31.2    118.2   242.4   451.2    707.8   1013.6   1315.1   1642.1   1995
Net Fixed Assets:   251.6   865.1   1559.2   3426    4627.1  4920.5   5151.1   5349.8  5618.9  6673.1
Capital - MnP.      571.6    263.6    375.5    207.5   372.4    114.8    40.5    25.5    26.5    25.5
TotefAssets:       1379.6   1490.4  2153.2   3950.5  6571.6  6176.9   7038.2  7882.8  8830.2  10088.8
N
LIABILITIES
Current LiabUites:  314.2   253.9    211.4    248.8   337.8   429.3    492.2   569.5   664.7    781.3
IBRD Loan:           0        0       576.6   2150.6  3449.7   3622.2   3803.3  3727.2  3634.1   3522.3
IFCI Loan:          79.6    81.3      62.2    43.1      23.9      4.8      0        0        0        0
Domestic Loans       0        0        10       10       10       10       10       10      7.5       6
Total Loans:        79.6    81.3    648.8   2203.7   3483.6  3636.9   3813.3   3737.2  3641.5   3527.2
Shareholders Equlty:    649.9   649.9   649.9    649.9    649.9    649.9   649.9    649.9   649.9   649.9
Reserves:           335.9   505.2   643.1    848.1   1100.2   1460.8   2082.8  2926.2  3874.1   5130.4
ToteJI.JahO        1379.6  1490.4  2153.2   3950.5  6571.6   6176.9   7038.2  7882.8  8830.2  10088.8
'-3



CONCOR
8aso Case Income Statement
(in Rs Lacs. Financial Yea Ending Match 311
1993     1994     1995     1996      1997     1998    1999    2000       2001     2002
!NCOME
Freight:                     6,635    9,108    13,077   17.596   24.132   30.584   37,679   46,421   57,191   70,459
Trans & Handling:             794     1,802    2,317    2,919    3,448    3,977    4,477    5,049    5.704    6,454
Storage Charges:              721      765      907      1.062    1.224    1,410    1,473    1,540    1.694    1,863
Miscellaneous income:         25       30        32       33       35        36      38       40       42        44
Rent:                          0       70        70       70       84        84      84       101      101      101
Operatikg Income:            8,175    11,775   16.403   22,039   28,923   36,091   43,752   53.151   64,731   78.921
InterestIncome:               820      426      179       161      343      831     1,640    2,468    3,330    4,460
Total Income:                8,995    12,200   16 582   22.201    29,266   36,922   45,392   55,619   68.061   83.381
EXPENSES
Freight;                     5,309    7,105    9,284    12,210    15,686   20.185   24,868   30,638   37,746   46.503
Trans & Handling:             633      958      1,243    1,593    1.989    2,392    2,753    3,169    3,649    4,203              0
Salaries:                     103      175      201       231      266      306      362      405      466      535
Overheads:                    175      450      618       595      684      787      905     1,041    1,197    1,377
Other Expenses:               100      186      283       331      547      710      769      844      918      994
Ucense Fee:                    0       337      337       340      340      340      340      340      340      340
Container Lease:               0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0
Operatin Expensos:           6,321    9,211    11,866   15,301    19,512   24,720   29,987   36,437   44,316   53.952
PBIDT:                       2,675    2,990    4,716    6.900    9,753    12,202   15,405   19,182   23,745   29,429
Finance Charges:              124      209     2,047    2.953    4,166    4,728    4,828    4,861    4,786    4,696
Depreciation:                 48       256      870      1,242    2.087    . '66    3,058    3,015    3,270    3,529
Profit BeforeTaxes:          2,503    2,524    1,798    2.705    3.500    4,908    7,519    9.734    10,779   13.863
Taxes:                        775      566       26        0        0        0        0      1.572    4,910    7,341              ID
Profit After Taxes:          1,728    1.958    1.772    2.705    3.500    4.908    7.519    9.734    10,779   13.863



CONCOR
Base Case staement of Change In Fiancial Position
{In Rf MMons, Financial Year Ending March 311
1993     1994      1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001     2002
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Cash Accruals:          1.668    1,952    2,250    3,295    4,610    6,173    9,278    11,450   12,749   16,092
Equityl sue:            1.800      0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0
Sale of Assets:          578      800      1501       0        0         0        0         0        0        0
Loans:                   722      161      5766    15,452   11,915       0        0         0        0        0
IncomeinCur.Lbab.:       708     -603      -424      373      891       914      630       773      952      1,166
Total Soswces:          5.377    2,310    9.093    19,120   17.416    7.087    9.907    12,222   13,701   17,258
USES OF FUNDS
CAPEX:                  5,171    3,311     8,930    17,942   15,121     750      2,810    2,950    3,098    3,253
Investments:              0        0         0       900      1,500    5,600    6,400    5,800    6,800    9,800              Li
Income in Cuffent Assets:    -519  -126     -42       63       566      589      630       773      952      1,166            H
Loan Repayments:          0       144       191      191       191      191       48      2,662    2,795    2,935
Total Uss:              4,652    3,328    9.080    19,096   17,379    7,131    9.888    12.185   13,670   17,179
Cash Balances:
Opening Balance:         613      1,338     319      332      356       393      349       369      406      437
Surplusl(Deficitf:       726    -1.019      13       24        38       -44       20       37       31        79
CLOSING BALANCE:        1,338     319       332      356      393       349      369       406      437      516



CONCOR
iKey Raetos Under Dnffrent Sconadool
1993     1994      1995      1996     1997      1998     1999      2000      2001     2002
BASE CASE
Cunrnt Rtio:                    1.8       1.A       1        1.3       1.6      2.7       3.8      4.4       4.9      5.6
DObt To Eqty Retdo:            0.08      0.07      0.5       1.5       2        1.7       1.4      1.1       0.8      0.6
Avwseg Not V@htu
of Fxed Assets Emplbyedd:      138%      41%       30%      22%       18%       18%      21%       26%       32%      38%
Workin Rtdo:                  77.90%   80.40%   77.60%    75.10%   74.70%   76.60%    75.S0%    74.20%   73.S0%   72.80%
Debt Swerce Coverege Retdo:    21.6      14.3      2.3       2.3       2.3      2.6       3.2       4         5        6.3
Net Profit Reto:              19.20%    16.10%    10.70%    12.20%    12.00%    13.30%    16.60%    17.50b   15.80%    16.60%
SECOND SCENARIO (.10%1
Current Retbo :                 1.8       1.5      0.9       0.8       1.1      2.1        3       3.8       4.t       5.9
Debt To Equity Rdtb:           0.06      0.07      O.5       1.6       2.2      1.9       1.6       1.2      0.8       0.6
Average Net Valu
of RxedAssetsnpVloyed:         138%      33%       25%       17%      15%       15%      17%       22%       26%      32%
Working Redto:                77.90%    82.40%    79.80%   78.50%     77%     77.90%    77.80%    76.40%   75.60%   74.90%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio:   21.6       12        2        1.9       2        2.2       2.8       3.4      4.3       5.4
Not ftrit Ratio:              19.20%    18.40%    7.30%     7.10%    8.10%    9.60%    13.20%    17.30%    19.50%   22.20%
THRD SCENARIO 1-20%)
Currn t Ratio:                  1.8       1.3      0.3        0       0.06      0.9       1.5       2        2.7       3.7
Debt To Equity Ratio:          0.08      0.07      0.6       1.9       2.8      2.7       2.3       1.7      1.2       0.8
Average Net Valhe
of RxedAssets Eployed:         138%      26%       19%       13%      12%       12%       13%      17%       21%      26%
Working Reto:                 77.90%   84.90%    82.60%    81.30%   79.90%   80.80%    80.70%    79.10%   78.20%   77.40%
Debt Serice Coveroge Ratio:    21.6       9.7      1.6       1.6       1.7      1.9       2.3       2.9      3.6       4.6
Not Profit Ratio:             19.20%    15.80%    2.90%     2.40%    3.30%      5%       8.90%    13.50%    15.90%    19%
FOIIRTh SCENARIO (+ t10%
Current Ratio:                  1.8       1.9       2        2.6      3.2       4.6       6        7.3       8.7      10.3
Debt To Equity Retio:          0.08      0.06      0.4       1.2       1.5      1.2        1       0.7       0.5       0.4
Averagw Net Vawk s
of fixed Assets Enplo yed:     138%      49%       36%      24%       21%       22%      25%       31%       37%      45%
Working Ratio:                77.90%   78.80%    75.90%    74.50%   72.80%   73.70%    73.70%    72.50%    71.80%   71.20%
Debt Seice Coverage Redo:      21.6      16.6      2.7       2.5      2.7       2.9       3.6      4.60     5.60      7.10
Net profit Rato:              19.20%   22.30%    13.80%    13.80%    15.10%' 16.30%    19.30%    22.80%    24.60%   27.00%



33
Table 2.2.5
CONCOR
(Actual and Forecasted Traffic Projection)
Financial        1993     1994      1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Year       _
TEUs
Handled        122607   170000   221000   276000   332000   390000   429000   471900   519090   570999
International    32869   t00_0   _5000    64000    76000    80000    88000    96800   106480   117128
Domestic
155476   221000   276000   340000   408000   470000   517000   568700   625570  688127
Total
TEUs
Handled            0    82000    98400   114000   114000   114000   114000   114000   114000   114000
ICD - TIKD    155476   139000   177600   2260      294000   356000   403000   4570   511570   574127
Other ICDs
155476   221000   276000   340000   408000   470000   517000   568700   625570  688127
Total           .     _  _  _ _  _  _             _  _ __                      _ _ ___              _
TEUs Booked
International   107501   147900   192270   240120   288840   339300   373230   410553   451608  496769
Domestic       16019    25500    27500    32000    38000    40000    44000    48400    53240    58564
Total        123520   173400   219770   272120   326840   379300   417230   458953   504848   555333



INDIA
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
Proiecl Obiectives and Development Indicators
Proiect Obiective                        Activiv/Refform                           wicators/Tareetz                              Comments
1. Improve institutional framework for   - Removal of some restritive cpstom6    - Transhipment of containers by road is   - Customs will isswe by May 31. 1994
efficient and competitive containcr transport   practices and policies restricting inlatd  albwed in most cases by customs.  clariracations to de trade on what is permitted or
to serve both foreign and domestic trade.  movement of containers especially by road.                                       not on the issue of inland novement of
- Containers will be granted temporary   comainers. Covered by side Iluer to Guarantee
admission for an extendable period of 6  Agreement.
months or more.
- Guarantee amount on loaded containers
will not exceed customs duty levied on the
goods.
- No restrictions on factory stuffed
containers.
- Expanding customs working hours.      - A twenty four hour customs examination
and clearance facility is available at mkajor
ports/airports from April 1994.
2. Strengthen tde commercial and operatinal  - MOU betwccn IR and CONCOR relating   - Sce Section F. Ahmex 2. 1. and Ahnex 3.5.   - IThe MOU establishes perfornance critcria and
performance of CONCOR in an increasingly  to service levels of container trains.                                            responsibilities between IR and CONCOR. The
competitive environment.                                                                                                    performance targets in Annex 3.5. which are
based on the MOU. monitor the commercial and
operational improvements of CONCOR over the
life of the project.
I'd
Jo O
ID X
w
0.H



Project Obieives                         Activitv/Reform                          Indicators/Taraets                              Comments
- Divesting at least 5 percent of GOls  - Will be completed by March 31. 1995.     Project covenant.
stake in CONCOR.
- Broadening of CONCOR's Board of       - Will be in effect by September 1994.    - Condition of Board Presentation.
Directors to improve skill base of Board.
- Reforming CONCOR's Claim Policy to
better serve the niarket.               - See Annex 3.S(8)                        - Conditon of Effectiveness.
- Providing technical assistance and
trainig to inprove CONCOR s             - See Annex 3.5 (1,2,7)                   - Agreement for 2 year TA component signed
operationa, commercial and fnuncial                                               between GOI and The Netherland'
capabilities.
3. Greatly imrove the ^ervice level and  - Establishmnet of scheduled (with       - See Sectien F Aninex 2.1 and Annex 3.5
capacity in te main corridors by providing    guaranteed transh times) contaier trains    '(3.4,S.6) for performance targets.
modem tecinology rolling stock to permi  from TKD to JNPT, HOM and BPr.
regular block train operations on gateway
ports corridors.                         - Acquisition and retrofitting of 1,200 BFK   - All equipment wil be procured by 1997.
flat cars.                              (See Annex 3.4)
- Ac.uiskiotm or 1.S00 (100 kph capability)   - All equipment will be procured by 1997.
new container (at cars.                 (See Annex 3.4)
- Acquisbion of complementary cargo     - All equipment will be procured by 1997.
handling and tracking equipment.        (See Annex 3.4)
-Complementary ICD construction to better  - All equipment will he procured by 1997.
serve emerging narkets.                 (See Annex 3.4)
IN
tb 
0' 
N) 



36
Annex 3.2
Page I of 3
Outline of The Netherland's Technical Assistance Program to CONCOR
Project Objective
The objective of the assignment is to provide technical assistance to CONCOR, in order to establish itself
as an effective developer and operator of intermodal transfer facilities in India and to improve its capability of managing,
operating and maintaining its facilities to accepted standards of performance and cost efficiency and to the satisfaction
of its users. The assignment will be implemented in New Delhi at the offices of CONCOR and at the newly build ICD
at TKD near New Delhi. The duration of the technical assistance program will be two years.
Project Components
The proposed Technical Assistance Program can be considered as consisting of two major components, one
rtiated to the medium and long-term development of CONCOR and the other reiated to short-term assistance, through
the implementation of a "crash" training and advisory program. For reasons of administrative convenience, it is desirable
for both ccmponents to be handled within one contract, by a single contracting company. However, it is possible that
some elements of the project will have to be subcontracted to specialist companies or individuals.
Description of key proiect personnel and duration of assigmnents
(1)        Project Manager (24 man-months): a senior expert with experience in successfully managing technical
assistance projects of a simnilar nature and scale in developing countries.
(2)        Operations Adviser (15 man-months): an expert with considerable experience of all aspects of intermodal
terminal operations, and with demonstrable skills in developing operating procedures and systems.
(3)        Mechanical/Electrical Engineering Adviser (24 man-months): a mechanical/electrical engineer with
extensive experience in the operation and maintenance of terminal plant and equipment preferably in ports or the
intermodal transport industry.
(4)        Systems Adviser (12 man-months): a systems analyst with wide experience in computer applications in the
transport sector; with demonstrable skills in the use of computerized information systems.
(5)        Human Resources Development Adviser (15 man-months): an expert with wide experience in modem
personnel management and human resources development practices preferably in the transport industry.
(6)        Operations Expert (15 man-months): an expert with practical experience of all aspects of ICD and CFS
operations, preferably with operational experience in developing counties.
(7)        Maintenance Expert (18 man-months): an engineer specialized in mechanical and electrical maintenance
of heavy plant and equipment, preferably with experience in ports and/or intermodal transport.
(8)        Cost Accounting Expert (12 man-months): a qualified cost accountant with practical experience of
fornulating costing systems, preferably having familiarity with the operations related to container terminals.
(9)        Financial Management Expert (9 man-months): an expert well qualified in financial management having
practical experience of financial evaluation of projects and having financial expertise in the management of a company's
finances.



37
Annex 3.2
Page 2 of -.
(10)       Market Research Expert (12 man-months): an expert having at least five years experience in marketini
and market research.
(11)       Additional Staff on Short-Term Assignments (12 man-months): an indeterminable number of experts ma)
be required on short-term contracts.



38                                        Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 3
Workplau for The Netherlands Technical Assistance
Proram for CONCOR
A,                ONTH
Appenmment ef             *.:                 .||
the Prajea. Team
Pregardion of
indivdual We*ptens
Acceptance of
lndmduaI Workplans
Organizadon and Delivery of Crash
Training for C-NCOUR Ma        n                I I I I
Organizadon and Derivery of Crash
Trainting for TJGHtLAKAAD SI ff
ProvIdtng Advice an
OcertionsAMainteLnance
Procedures b:y Experts
Predtcal and On-Job 
|irain-ing by lExperts|[     |||  
Preparation and Ancrevat.
of Susiness Development
Plan Study
Oevelopment of the
Business Development Ptan
ImplementatIon of the
Revlew Container/Cargo                                                                 i
Projections and Capacfies for                   I
|TUJGHWCAXAZ       artt Other ICO%                                                  
Acceptance by CONCOR and GOI
of the Recommenddatons of tMe
Operations Task Foa  and
Their Implementadton
Design, Preparadton
Impimentatdon of Procedural
Manuals on Terrinal Operatdons                  |
De sign, Preparation                           I 
Mair;teance System                            *     tl          1
|esgn. Preparentn.             |  |                         I   I III I'
Itmplementation of Supplies                       I
Management System                               | |
ProducJon of Standard
P-ocurement Tender Document
Oesign. Poepmratin .
ImplementatIn of EquipmentI
Operating Procetdures                                         ||||||||        
Design. Preparation, tmpIemenaton
of an lgrated and Computdsd
CONCOR and TerTninal Managent
Informaion Systems
Oevelopment of  IRO Policy,
Plan and Systems
Formulaion of a Training Suategy
and its Implementadon
Supervision Civil Works
DOsign. Development and Produftio n                   I
of Pa 6ged Training Programmes                *     I I  1                              I I |
Rertitnent of
Short-Term Expetsm
P'rocurement of 'reeching
Equipment and Matenals



39
Amex 3.3
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY TABLE
(US$ millions)
Estiinated
Estimated      Local Exchange    Estimated
Component Description                 Fgn. Exch.    Loc. C. - Duty/Taxes  Total
1.  Retrofit braking system
of 1,200 BFK flat cars*            .00         3.36    .24         3.60
2.  Purchase 1200 BFK
flat cars*                          .00        18.75    1.31      20.06
3.  Construction of 1,500
modem design flat cars            15.75       36.75    6.51       59.01
4.  Construction of 5 tri-
axle flat cars                     .45          .00    .11          .56
5.  Construction of 750
modem design flat cars             7.88        18.37    3.26      29.51
6.  Purchase 1 rubber tired
gantry crane                       1.60         .00    .40         2.00
7.  Purchase 2 reach stacker
container handlers*                .67          .00    .23          .90
8.  Purchase 5 tractor/
trailer trucks*                     .00         .19    .01          .20
9.  Purchase 6,900 RFID
transponders, 7 RFID
readers/RF modules, and
I encoder unit                     .33          .00    .08          .41
10. Civil Works ICD Construction*
- Tughlakabad                      .00         5.18    .36         5.54
- Ludhiana                         .00         2.93    .20         3.13
- Hyderabad                        .00          1.76    .12        1.88
11. Computer Software Systems*          .00          .45    .03         .48
12. Consultancies and Training*
(a) Technical Assistance for Capacity  3.70       .00    .00         3.70



40
Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 2
Building and Training**
(b) Engineering Services for Project  .00        1.00    .00        1.00
Preparation and Implementation Support
SUB-TOTAL                        30.38       88.74   12.86      131.98
Contingency                       1.62        15.26    2.14      19.02
TOTAL                            32.00       104.00   15.00     151.00
* Items to be fully funded by CONCOR.
** Item to be funded by The Netherlands in the amount of
US$ 3.5 million equivalent and by Bank in the amount of
US$ 0.2 million equivalent
Bilateral Assistance
DISTRIBUTION OF FINANCING:
The Netherlands Ministry F/A      4.00          .00    .00        4.00
World Bank Finance               28.00        66.00    .00       94.00
Concor Local Finance               .00       38.00   15.00       53.00



41
Anmus 3.4
Page 1 Of 3
INDIA
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Actions and Project Components  By Bank       By Borrower        Others
(Date of Completed Action)
Project Processing:
Appraisal                 1/24/94
Negotiations              4108/94
Board                     5/19/94
Effectiveness                          07/19/94 (guarantor)
Midterm Review                         12/95               12/95
Procurement of Major Components
Item #12(a). Technical Assistance
Invite proposals                                           12/01/93
Receipt of bids                                            02/03/94
Bid evaluation                         03/15/94
Contract signature                     05/01/94
Start of assistance                    06/01/94
Item #1. Retrofit Braking System
Draft tender documents                 09/30194
Permission of IR Board                 07/31/94 (guaranor)
Invite proposals                       10/31194
Bid evaluation                         01/31/95
Award                                  02/28/95
Delivery and services                                      07/01/95
03/31/96
Items #4. Tri-axle Flat cars
Draft tender documents    06/21/94     36/01/94
RDSO and Board Approval                09/01/94
Invite proposals                       09/15/94
Receipt of bids                        12/15/94
Bid evaluation            02/21/95     02/01/95
Award                                  03/15/95
Delivery                                                   09/15/95
Test Clearance                                             12/15/95



42
Anex 3.4
Page 2 of 3
Items #3. Flat cars (Tranche 1)
Draft tender documents   03/15/94     03/07/94
Invite technical tenders              04/16/94
Receipt of bids                       07/16/94
Bid evaluation/comments    10/15/94   09/15/94
Award first stage                     10131/94
Invite price bids                     10/31/94
Receipt of bids                       11/30/94
Bid evaluation/comments    01/21/95   12/31/94
Award second stage                    02/15/95
Delivery of Test car (Prototype)                         08/15/95
Prototype test and report                                11/15/95
Delivery                                                 12/15/95
12/15/96
Item #5. Flat cars (Tranche 2)
Draft tender documents   01/15/96     12/15/95
Invite tenders                        01/31/96
Receipt of bids                       04/30/96
Bid evaluation/comments    07/08/96   06/15/96
Award                                 07/30/96
Delivery                                                 01/31/97
07/31/97
Item #6. Gantr Cranes
Draft tender documents   04/19/94     03/15/94
Invite tenders                        04/16/94
Receipt of bids                       07/02194
Bid evaluation/commes    09/01/94     08/15/94
Award                                 09/20/94
Delivery
09/15/95
Item #8. Tractor/Trailer Trucks
Invite tenders                        10/15/94
Delivery                              03/15/95



43
Annex 3.4
Page 3 of 3
Item #9. Transponders
Draft tender documents    09/08/94     08/15/94
Invite tenders                         12/15/94
Receipt of bids                        03/15J5
Bid evaluation/comments    06/15/95    05/15/95
Award                                 07/01/95
Delivery and Installation                                 12/15/95
Item #10. Civil Works Ludhiana
Draft tender documents                 09/15/93
Invite tenders                         10/21/93
Bid evaluation/comments                02/15/94
Award                                  05/31/94
Delivery                                                  06/30/95
1tm #10. Civil Works Hvderabad
Draft tender documents                03/31/94
Invite tenders                         04/15/94
Bid evaluation/comments                07/15194
Award                                 07/31/94
Delivery                                                  12/31/95
Item #11. Conmuter Software
Draft tender documents                04/15/93
Invite tenders                        05/15/93
Bid evaluation/comments                06/01/93
Award                                  07/01/93
Delivery                                                  12/31/94
Notes:    Item #12(a) is fumded by The Netherlands, which is responsible for bid evaluadon and award.
Items #1, #2, #7, #8, #10, #11 and #12 will be funded fully by CONCOR using own procedures.



44
Annex 3.5
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROIECT
CONCOR PERFORMANCE TAR___
Actual   Estimated_                Targets
1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98
1. Traffic (000 TEUs)
(a) ltenational                                           122       189        221      276       332       390
(b) Domestic                                              M          48        55        64        76        80
(c) Total                                                 155       237       276       340       408       470
2. Finance (Rs milion)
Opeating Revenues                                         817       1177      1640      2204     2892       3609
Operating Expenses                                        632       921       1187      1530      1951      2472
Profit before taxes                                       250       252        180      270       350       490
Salaries as percent of
Operating Cost                                           1.6        1.9       2.1       2.0       1.9       1.8
3. Train tansit times (brs)
TKD-BPT                                                   D.a.      105        69        63        60        57
TKD-JNPT                                                  n.a.      131        85        80        75        67
TKD-HOM                                                   n.a.      160       126       115       110       100
4. Train tum round at notus rea (includina tain examation
BFr                                                       n.a.       48      To be added following negotiations between
JNPr                                                      na.        60      CONCOR and the Ports.
HOM                                                      noa.        60             _        _ _         _
5. Overall Round trip turnarod     of flat cs (days)
TKD-BPT                                                              12         9        7         6         6
TKD-JNPT                                                             13        10        8         7         6
TKD-HOM                                                              18        13        11        10        9
6. Number of snecial schedled weekl"  ains
North India - BPT/JNPT                                     _         _          6        10        14        18
North ndia - HOM                                           -         _          2        3         4         5
7. Perfrmance of TKD/ICD
Average cargo handling equipment availabflty               -        ona.       80        85        85        85
Average dwell time of import comainer (.days)              -        n.a.       15        8         7         6
Average dwell time of export contaiv   days)               -        n.a.        4        3         S         2
Average dwell time of break-bulk imports and expons (_days)  -      n.a.       12        10        9         8
Import coniers to be available for ddivety wilhio x hours  -        n.a.       36        24        12        12
of discharge for block ttains
8. Customer Saonaei  RaOU
(percent of customers satisfied with service as per MOU)  _         _          _        80        '5        90
Note: Subject to ftre raffic leves. At least 75   cet of interaton   t    service is to be on spec Ia schedules with faster
guaranteed transit time by 1997198.
n.a. Data not availble
- Not appLicable



45
&uMe 3,
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEDENT SCHEDtJILE
from Date of     LD Fiscal Year            Rsdtmated D ibursements        Dbbunement
Approvaj         and Quarter                  (US$ milons)                 profie
Quarter   cumulative    Percent
1            FY95 Sept. 30, 94     -            -           -      _
2                  Dec.31, 94      2            2            2           0%
3                  Mar.31,95       6            18           9
4                   Iun.30, 95     4            12          13           1%
S            FY96 Sept. 30,95      4            16          17
6                  Dec.31,95       6           22           23           10%
7                  Mar.31,96       8            30          32
8                  Jun.30,96       8           38           40           18%
9            FY97 Sept. 30,96      10          46           51
10                 Dec.31,96        6           54          57           26%
11                 Mar.31, 97       6           60          64
12                  Jun.30,97       6           66          70           38%
13           FY98 SepL 30, 97       6           72          77
14                 Dec.31, 97       4           76          81           50%
15                 Mar.31, 98       4           80          85
16                  Jun.30,98       2           82          87           62%
17           FY99 SepL 30, 98       2           84          89
18                 Dec.31, 98       2           86          91           70%
19                 Mar.31,99        2           88          94
20                  Jun. 30, 99     2           90           96          78%
21          FY2000 Sep. 30, 99      2           92           98
22                  Dec. 31, 99     2           94          100          86%
23               Mar. 31, 2000
24                Jun. 30, 2000                                          94%
25        FY2001 Sept. 30, 2000
26                Dec. 31, 2000                                          96%
27               Mar. 31, 2001
28                Jun. 30, 2001                                          98%
29        FY2002 Sept. 30, 2001
30               Dec. 31, 2001                                           100%
- Not app1icable.
a. Estmated Disburseme   assume Board dale in Fouri Quarter FY94 and closing date of
December 31, 1999. Cumulative Disbursement Profile is for Rank-wide subsector for railways.



46
AnnA 3.7
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
1.   Acquisition of 2.250 new flat cars. The economic benefit from this investment arises from the
reduced transport cost of container rail movement (with the project) as compared with road transport
(without the project) from northern India to the three gateway ports of BPT, JNPT and HOM, with a
weighted average distance of about 1,600 km. The underlying assumption is that without the
additional flat cars, the corresponding traffic would move by road, as is presently the case for most of
the traffic. The benefit from the proposed investment is therefore the saving in total transport cost by
rail as compared with road transport. The road vehicle costs are based on a 1993 consultant study
giving an average cost of Rs .51 per thn for the main highways. To this is added terminal handling
costs at the port, cargo inventory costs and the container costs. In the with-project case, the through
costs are the rail transport costs, including flatcar maintenance costs, handling costs at the ICD and
port, an estimated 100 km road transport to/from the ICD, cargo inventory costs and the container
costs. All costs are in late-1993 prices adjusted using a standard conversion factor for India of 0.8.
2.   The resulting ERR for this component is 37 percent (see table below) and the net profit (NPV)
at 12 percent is Rs 3,113 million. Allowing for a 10 percent increase in investment costs and a 10
percent reduction in benefits would reduce the ERR to 31 percent. The results of the sensitivity
analysis is given below:
Test          ERR        NPV
(Rs Million)
Base Case             37%       3,113
Benefits decreased  10%    33%  2,609
Benefits decreased  20%    29%  2,105
Costs increased   10%    33%    2,920
Coss increased   20%    30%     2,728
Beneft decreased 10% and
costs increased 10%   31%       2,482
Switching values show that the cost of this component would have to increase by about 162 percent or
the benefits would have to drop by 61 percent before the NPV would fall to zero. This is bighly
unlikely.
3.   The above analysis is conservative since it does not take into account a number of potential
benefits, which for the purpose of this analysis have been treated as non-quaified benefis. First, no
allowance has been made in the without case for increasing vehicle operating costs due to increasing
congestion on the main highways. Over time road traffic would increase as a result of normal trffic
growth. Furtmore, if the rail capacity was not increased through the acquisition of the new fiat
cars, this additional traffic would also have to be handled by the existing road network, thus adding to
current traffic congestion. In this connection it should be noted that approximately 80 percent of the
rail container transport is between northern India and Bombay (BPT and JNPT) and is mainy served
by NH 2 and 3. The annual capacity of the 2,50 flat cars is conservatively esdmated at 241,300
TEUs, (about 154,500 loaded), for a total of about 2,300,000 tons. Assuming an average of 7 tons
per truck would give an average of 900 additional truck per day or some 700 per day in the North



47
Annex 3.7
Page 2 of 3
India-Bombay corridor. Based on recent traffic counts by MOST, this would be an increase of
between 12 and 45 percent in the heavy vehicle (bus and truck) traffic currently handled by NH 2 and
3; based on the average traffic counts at 14 sections, the average increase in heavy vehicles would be
18 percent. As congestion increases some traffic would, as is already happening, detour to other
longer but less congested roads. However, this would also result in higher vehicle operating costs.
Second, no consideration was given to the increased road deterioration or increased road maintenance
costs that would result from the increased volume of heavy, frequently overloaded, trucks. Third, no
account was taken of the much higher accident rates for road transport in India and therefore the
avoided accident costs if the traffic moves by rail. Fourth, the costs of pollution generated by the
additional heavy road traffic was not quantified. Any attempt to quantify these additional benefits
would be very time consuming and require information that is not presently available. As the basic
evaluation yields a good rate of return, it was therefore not considered necessary in the context of this
project to enter into such a more detailed and time-consuming analysis.
4.   Retrofittiag of 1.200 existing BFK flat cars. The economic benefit of this component consists
of two main items. First, the retrofitting would result in higher average speeds and less down time
due to repairs and maintenance. This would result in an increase of about one-third in the carrying
capacity of the upgraded flat cars, or about 17,000 TEUs per year. Second, maitenance costs per
tlan would be reduced. CONCOR has estimated that as a result of the retrofitting, maintenance costs
per tkm would be reduced by 50 percent. This appears reasonable since retrofitted items are the most
maintenance intensive conponents. The resulting economic benefit has been estimated as the
difference between rail and road transport costs as in the previous case, but only for the incremental
traffic that could be carried by rail as a result of the retrofitting. Again no account was taken of the
non-quantified benefits mentioned in para 3.
5.   On the above basis, the ERR for this component is estimated at 33 percent (see table below).
Allowing for a 10 percent increase in capital cost and a 10 percent reduction in benefits would reduce
the ERR to 27 percent. The results of the sensitivity analysis is summarized below:
Test           ERR       NPV
(Rs Mmion)
Base case               33%        108
Benefits decreased 10%  30%         88
Benefits decreased 20%  26%        69
Costs increased   10%   30%        99
Costs increased   20%   27%        90
Benefits decreased 10% and
costs increased 10%     27%        80
Switching values show that the cost of this lomnponent would have to increase by about 125 percent or
benefits would have to drop by 55 percent for the NPV to fall to zero, which is highly unlikely.
6.   Taking into account the above analysis and the non-quantified benefits mentioned in pam 3, the
investment is clearly justified.



48
Annex 3.7
Page 3 of 3
7.   _thers. CONCOR has made a financial analysis for the equipment purchases for TKD.
Estimating the economic benefits from the marginal increment in cargo handling equipment provided
under the project as well as for the rail car tracking equipment, which would basically improve
customer service, is difficult. Because of this and the relatively modest amounts involved (3 percent),
a separate economic evaluation was not carried out Similarly, no economic evaluation was carried
out of the technical assistance components (2 percent) Finally, CONCOR has prepared a preliminary
financial evaluation of the additional civil works to be funded fully from its own resources (8 percent)
and this is currently being updated. As indicated in para 3.21, CONCOR should at loan negotiations
agree to make the resulting evaluation available to the Bank before conuencing the works.
8.   Combined. Table 3 provides the combined cost and benefit streams for the two main project
components for which an economic evaluation was carried out as discussed in the preceding
paragraphs. The resulting combined ERR is 37 percent and the NPV at 12 percent is Rs 3221 million.
Switching values show that the combined cost would bave to increase by about 160 percent or benefits
would have to drop by about 60 percent for the NPV to fai to zero, which is highly unlikely.



INl)lA
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJEIC
FCONOMIC RATE OF RETUtRN (I.RRs
Acquisition of 2.250 New Plat Cars
(Rs millions)
OPERATING COSTS WMIOUT
INVISTMlINT                         PROJLCCT                          OPFRATING COSTS WMIT PROJECT
Year      Investment        Satlvagc        Road Transport                                            Adjusment for
Costs           Valuc              Costs            Total        Curfent Rall Costs      Own Wagons            Total        Net Beneftr
1994        545.2                                0                 0                 0                     0                 0            -545.2
199S        817.S                               899.6            899.6             652.7                  47.4             60M.3          -523.5
1996        817.8                              1799.1            1799.1            1305.4                 94.9             1210.5         -229.2
1997                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                118.6             1513.2          735.7
1998                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                118.6             1513.2          735.7
1999                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                118.6             1513.2          735.7
2000                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                 118.6             1513.2         735.7
2001                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                118.6              1513.2         735.7
2002                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                118.6              1513.2         735.7
2003                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                118.6              1513.2         735.7
2004                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                118.6             1513.2          735.7
2005                                           2248.9            2248.)            1631.8                118.6              1513.2         735.7
2006                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                118.6             1513.2          735.7            o
2007                                            2248.9           2248.9            1631.8                118.6             1513.2          73S.7
2008                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                118.6             1513.2          735.7
2MP)                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                118.6             1513.2          73S.7
2010                                           2248.9            2248.9            1631.8                118.6             1513.2          735.7
2011                                            2248.9           2248.9            1631.8                 118.6            1513.2          735.7
2012                                            2248.9           2248.9            1631.8                 118.6             1513.2         735.7
2013                                            2248.9           2248.9            1631.8                118.6             1513.2          735.7
2014                         -S45.4             2248.9           2248.9            1631.B                 118.6             1513.2         1281.1
ERR  37%
NPV at2%: 3113
Notes: 1. All costa are in late 1993 prices using a standard conversion factor of 0.8.
2. Road transport costs without project covers road vehicle operating costs at Rs 0.5 I per tkm for aim average distaice of 1.600 kIm plus dte cost of handling at port
(Rs 3,230 per TEU), inventory cost (Rs 1,500 per TElU based on Rs 300 per day) anrd conlaimter costs (Rs 492 per l PU) based on information pravyWed by CONCOR and
CES study.
3. Rail operatimig cosIs wkiti project includes rail transport costs inclidiing hlat car mainteniace plus hlndling costs at ICD (Rs 6.846 per TU). port terminal handling
costs (Rs 1.530 per TEU). cuioeting road transport to and front ICI) (Rs 765 per 11'U lused on Rs 0.51 per tknmi for I10 kini), inventory capital costs
(Rs 2,100 per TEU based on Rs 300 per day), and container costs (Rs 820 per l'l}U).
4. Residual value of flat cars has been cssunmed to be 25 pemcent wkich is conservative taking illto account a normlal economi liCfe of 30 years.
S. An adjustment to The current rail .osts was nade In exclude depreciatiuna costs aud ldus aVoil #dntul, 4 4"untlng.



INDIA
CONtAINER TRANS t)ORT MI STICS -ROJIfiC
fiCONOMIC RATE OF RETVRN (fR3}
Retrofitting of 1,200 BFK flat (ars
(Rs milioats)
INVPStMtNT                           OPERATING  OCtSTI WmIOUT PROWIVT                             OPERATING COSTS WrilI PROJEICT
Imvestnttt       Salvage                           By Road         RNt Car                                           Reduaed 1Fa                         Net
Year            Costs           Value           Dy Rail         Transpoti      Maintenance         Total           Dy Rai        Car Maittenance       ToWt          Iknht
1994           S6.02                              0                0                0               0                0                 0                 0           -86.02
1995                                            507.057         200.068            12.6           719.725          683.4U4             6.3            689.784        29.941
1996                                            507.057         200.068            12.6           719.725          683.4t4             6.3            689.784        29.941
1997                                            507.057         200.068            12.6           71').725         683.484             6.3            6h9.7?4        29.941
1998                                            507.057         200.068            9.46           716.585          683.434            4.73            6St.214        28.371
1999                                            507.057         200.068            9.46           716.585          683.434            4.73            6S8.214        28.371
2000                                            507.057          20o.068           9.46           716.585          6813.484            4.73           688.214        28.371
2001                                            507.057          200.EM8           7.08           714.205          683AW4              3.54           687.024        27.161
2002                                            507.057          2110.068          7.08           714.205          683.484             3.54           687.024        27.181
2003                                            507.057          200.068           7.08           714.205          683.484             3.54           687.024        27.181
2004                                            507.057          200.068           5.32           712.445          683.484             2.66           686.144        26.301       8
2005                                            507.051          200.0M 8          5.32           712.445          683.484             2.66           686.144        26.301
2006                                            507.057          20tl.068          5.32           712.445          683.4N4             2.66           686.144        26.301
2007                                            507.057          200.068           3.98           711.105          bX3.4,4 1            .99           6t5.474        25.631
2003                                            507.057          2tX0.062          3.93           7121.105         683.4g4             1.99           685.474        25.631
200U)                           .*8.6           507.057          200. __           3.98           711.105          683.434             1.99           68S.474         34.231
ER 33%
NPV at 12%: 108
Note: 1. All costs are in late 1993 prices using a stanlarni conversion factor of 0.3.
2. Rail operating costs widt4ott project isclule rail transport costs plis ICD termibal handling (Rs 6.1846 per Tltl) poit handling costs (Rs 1 530 per Tl U) a 100 lItt connecing road transpon to or
from ICi) (Rs 7U5 per 113U based oni R.s 1.51 pel Ikmlt). ituvemltuty capital costt (Its 2. I(Y) pke ThIti, aJttd coultattner ettus (its 192 Ier 2111I1) as puvidtlcd by CUNtOUt.
3. Road transport costs witotiut project covers road vehicl operating COStS for the itCientCtial tOntiage whtic could blie laidled lby rail attly alter thc flat cars have been retrofitted (Rs 0.51 per ikm)X phis
thc cost of handlinig at pon (Rs 3,230 Pcr IWEU), taivtattry custs (Rs I ,t5O per IlTU). ansI container costs (Rs 492 pea TIWU) based ont ihiloiaitation provided by CONCOR and CES study. 
4. Rail opeating costs with project includes rail transport costs after retrofitting (restiltitig in 1/3 imtcrease it carry capacity) plus ltadliillj costs, ICD tenninal handling costs of conncting mad transport to 
and from ICD. inventory capital costs and contamier costs.                                                                                                                    a-  X
5. Flat car naaintenantce costs have btac estimated by CONCOR to be reducedtlay 50' percet i follhwing tetatolattinag.
6. The residual life of the fiat cars after reltofitting Ilas been assitaned to be t5 years with a 10 percent rcsidual value of tle mtkvestaltent cost.



CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
COMBINED ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (ERR}
Acquisition of 2,250 FIat Cars and Retrofitting 1,200 BPKs
(Rs millions)
Operating Costs           Operating Costs
investment           Without Projects            With Project            Net
Year      Investment Cost       Salvage Value       Total Combined Costs      Total Combined Costs        Benefat
1994           631.2                                        0                         0                  -631.2
1995           817.8                                      1619.3                    1295.1               -493.6
1996           817.8                                      2518.8                    1900.3               -199.3
1997                                                      2968.6                     2203                 765.6
1998                                                      2965.5                    2201.4               764.1
1999                                                     2965.5                     2201.4               764.1
2000                                                      2965.5                    2201.4                764.1
2001                                                      2963.1                    2200.2                762.9
2002                                                      2963.1                    2200.2                762.9
2003                                                      2963.1                    2200.2                762.9
2004                                                      2961.3                    2199.3                 762                         e
2004                                                      2961.3                    2199.3                 762
2005                                                      2961.3                    2199.3                 762
2006                                                      2961.3                    2199.3                762
2007                                                       2960                     2198.7                761.3
2008                                                       2960                     2198.7                761.3
2009                               -8.6                    2960                     2198.7                769.9
2010                                                      2248.9                    1513.2                73S.7
2011                                                      2248.9                    1513.2                735.7
2012                                                      2248.9                    1513.2                735.7
2013                                                      2248.9                    1513.2                735.7
2014                              -5.545.4                2248.9                    1513.2                1281.1
ERR: 37%
NPV: 3221



52
Annex3.
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
Outline of Content of Ouarterlv Progress Reports
(to be furnished within 30 days of end of each quarter)
I.   Introduction.
II. CONCOR's Business Activities and Developments, including quarterly data for items covered
by the performance targets in so are as the actual data are available on a quarterly basis.
Eg.  Project Progress (details in annexure) - Tender document preparation, tendering and contract
awards by project component, progress by contract compared to agreed procurement schedule
and contracts (table including (i) date of bid invitation; (ii) date bids received; (iii) date of bid
validity; (iv) date of contract award; and (v) delay or elapsed time - (iv) - (iii).
TV.  Status and Progress of Consultant Services (progress report of technical assistance team funded
by The Netherlands in annexure).
V.   Financial Management - Broad parameters of CONCOR's financial situation; project
expenditures by component; disbursements.



53
A=nx 3.9
CONT INE RANSPRT LOGSTC  POJC
SuD1e  sion Pl an 
Input
Approxmate                                            Skm                  In Staff
Dates                 Ac_t                     RequIm ts                 Weeks
FY9S-July            Supervision Mission       Econ.-Procure-Fin.                3
FY9S-November       Supervision Mission        Econ.-Procure-Ole-                6
Cusroms-Finan.
FY9S-February       Supervision Mission        Econ.-Egr-Praocure-               3
Finan.
FY95                Headquarters               Procure-En-Finan.                 2
NDO                       Procure-Rese_iment                7
FY96-September      Supervision Mission        Econ-Oper-Pue-                    4
Finan.
FY96-March          Supervision Mission        Econ-Procure-Finan.               3
FY96                Headquarters               Econ-Finan.                       2
NDO                       Proure.                            3
FY97-Sepzember      Supervision Mission        Econ-Procure-Finan.-               3
Oper.
FY97-March          Supervision Mission        Econ-ProcureFinan.                3
FY97                Headquarters               Econ-F un.                        2
NDO                       Procufe.                           2
FY98-Septem r       Supervision Mission        Eoon-Oper-Procure-Fin.            4
FY98-March          Supervision Mission        Econ-Promre-Finan.                3
FY98                Headquarters               Econ-Fman.                        2
NDO                       Procure.                           I
FY99-September      Supervision Mission        Econ-Finat-Procure.               3
FY99-March          Supervision Mission        Econ-Finan                        3
FY99                Headquarters an  PCR       Econ-Funan.                       2
FY2000-September    Supervision Mission        F'-Fiman.                         3
FY2000-Jamzary       PCR Mission               PCR Mission                       10
a. Assumes Board date in Fourth Quarter of FY92 and closing date of December 31, 1996.



54
INDIA                            Annex 3.10
CONTAINE TRANSPORT IO-GISTICS PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE ON ROJEC FILE
1.    Annual Reports for 1988/1989 through 1992/1993 - CONCOR.
2.    Business Plan (1993/94 - 1997/98) - CONCOR.
3.    Finance Plan; Resource Mobilization Strategy (1993/94 - 1997/98) -  CONCOR.
4.    Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation - CONCOR, 1988.
5.    CONCOR Technical Assistnce Project - Govermment of the Netherlands, 1993.
6.    India's Growing Conflict Between Trade and Transport - Hans Peters, Blue Works India, WPS
346, January 1990.
7.    Memorandum of Undersading, An Approach to Improving Public Enterprise
Performance - Prajapati Tnvedi, Ifternational Management Publishers, 1990.
8.    Memorandum of Understanding for 1994 - 95 between CONCOR and Indian Railways -
CONCOR, 1994.
9.    Container Transport Logistics Project, Mission Report - Bill Thompson, October 1993.
10.   Container Transport Logistics Project, Mission Reports - Bill Thompson, May 1993.
11.   Economic Appraisal of Container Transport Logistics Project - A. Gupta, Decenber 1993.
12.   India - Transport Logistics and Trade Policy - Gosta E. Roos, November 1993.
13.   Study on Simplification of Customs Procedures for Promotion of Exports, - Rites, August 1991.
14.   India - Review of Container Development Strategy - Final Report, (ODA) Colquhoun
Transportation Planning, March 1992.
15.   A Perspective Plan for the Development of Containeization in India - RITES, September, 1987.



CONAtINES CliSalIm eF $MIA LTD.
toel
GGAUUAUltmL coul
UMSAOIMB OlSCECIC
SISICH.                                                                               sisac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lomc
warn      out"a USUL                                       EOL1 CEtM  ILEm. sSS(L)                FSNUKCu C01111LUR                   of aIUL  I~7 J   W
tUII             Kona OEll                                                                 a                  9 c_WE  SECM1M       "   oi l391    SWIMEI
tootetrt Vtw&c$ teroI t
r  I,                                                ,,,pot. Pl.mi,e
t. t_ Lr  ct                         Crd   _            bt.        eWrct.thwt)        I#SACE OftPC         IWANC F OlCeSE
(6~tI~fuwerX     *a9...eA.n    gtIuuisu.s Aasd_~t                                     4cor(p"t*           ceaxb u     tm,m
hcigb)          OfftccP u              l Pehic  aeltlte)                             Inwsltnt. a          a ctrIt Wppralel)
0cAoftt 1fl f_Iint_                                                         imSly st)
NWd mos"aw,. 51Lat.lcttvs
civit uor*)                                 4..I.tocs
(Sale tup        (flue   mrc
bftw le tettgv)



'g[||||                                     S.       A        b i c                     -
!~~~       ~~ -   t;_F._PmI@   w    I.a                                                         st
'~~I1~   X} itl1|}i
P 3   .             aes         *I   s   0    r        [            t             4   |      r 
L   s  It ,    IitI          ILc              jg I        I Ir       ItIr        i
I  ~      ~I    ~I If t" '  * i,                                     I 
[ P i  I F P I i I I' 1 l t F  * F I  I I ~~r  t t               It7      . Ii              
I                                                                      - . - t  .-_ i W  .   " I I i-ii to    I F 11 *
it i~~~~~~~~~~~~~it                                                    P
1, rI 1* I       I      t'  i t            i                      i  ,           . t. 1Fi
2: ~~tt    _= 
ii   kII  <             *    ' Is  s I IZ~  1. t P .111 I  I  I r               L    I    Ji  I 1.* I   a
3    i              j,              &  Il1.I   *  g iij.  1         ;       sr ,1.           *.  1,* *  -
-j~~~~    ~~~~~ It '   Il           s-iII.II I.                   lRrI'I*                     I     *
I   iFX          ,      I   5I P_ I I    I I   I*   11      1     |.l. I Ili              r  I    b1
t  I r   I                 .     I    !  _             ;       I|
xi                                        it 
J z         1 li 1 .    I      Ii .  I  I  P      P     I I I        =.  I  S   I    I  * I                 I
. t t t   *  I I rl  I. I 1   Illr *    . I: i   bt1.  1. hI    . I       _.         i i
Iow~~~~~~~~
r P r    t   * _  I I        PittIF. I    *'t  I                    11I
I-s;!   - F. b I*  *  I.*  I i  I i r I ! *    I  II I t   1 '                                    O
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I it                                                  .I        
IS    I !SIll j'  b b *1 8 h     I   i1'   gu' 1  >1  1 t t | t    1& I  bPl '    I  ',  .1*I
I.L 1* X          '     u* I.     II   1   II      1'* -   i, lS.rl:    *  IS 1                       i
_ _    _ I I I , W  _    a I I S r I I I~~~~~~~~~~~~1,   S.
ta * i     I       I.   I            I       pwp   .11.111             111     II .         SS P
~~~~:~~             v ,    .   .I    1  r I  l.    I.  |.     I    I.  'Fl  I    I    I    I    I   Ib  l  I  : I  P   1
! I         I   I  I    I ' >     I I    I  I  |.  D  1 I    I. tI  I  I    I  I    I  I  | . 1
1        *    I    & I    II  1i..   It-PtiI  P.  1. 1.                 .1k   I.h_,
0   1   |  X   F ~~I |    P I F.   I IS II    F    I  I 1I   .         I          1. 5 * ' ? I  I  .l~
5           P;IX   IHt11    I_I     I-I  l. Ir   II r      . r ll    .1 1 1,,1,1,1            , II   1
i;        q F P ,F II    I                  *    IIFII  I  , I       I     11 F i.t    I-I.rXF   I.  Pb    I3
*        t41 9'Mt
2               S     li * 1.    11         Iti  1rr. IDr1 11 f  I. P I  P it     *11.I     ip_.    1
,vI, J. II                             l  I.I I                              v     IL       ._        1
3    0      i t   I                                                           -       I
X, L' t i 11 v . It                                                           r .1..t ,I,,1,,1*i11 1, *IFF  1
a;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                  IlbI
1~~~    ~~ Ir i                                     F.li 'r  '  0_                  1
*                                                                              it    0 olm_ o    {
i r ~~~~tPLo   I ! I g11t i IPt t IF*F         11    t11 * I.F 1. I tfIt I, W   I  J if 4  IV
T"C 41ANO                                                         95



