Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24136
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37530; SCL-3753A)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$94 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
CONTAINER CORPORATION OF INDIA
FOR THE
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
June 12, 2002
Energy and Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 15, 2002 at ICR)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1.0 = US$ 0.0204
US$ 1.0 = 48.94
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 -  March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           -             Country Assistance Strategy
BFKI          -             Original Bogie Container Flat Cars (with vacuum brakes and 48 ton
capacity)
BFKN          -             Modified Bogie Container Flat Cars (with air brakes and 61 ton
capacity)
BOXK          -             Open high-sided wagon modified to carry containers (48 ton capacity)
BPT           -             Bombay Port Trust
CFS           -             Container Freight Station
CONCOR        -             Container Corporation of India
ERR           -             Economic Rate of Retum
FRR           -             Financial Rate of Retum
GOI           -             Government of India
GON           -             Government of the Netherlands
ICB           -             Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICD           -             Inland Container Depot
IR            -             Indian Railways
JNPT          -             Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust
KH            -             Open high-sided wagon modified to carry containers (60 ton capacity)
kph           -             kilometers per hour
MIS           -             Management Informnation Systems
MOR           -             Ministry of Railways
MOU           -             Memorandum of Understanding
NPV           -             Net Present Value
RDSO          -             Research, Design and Standards Organization
SAR           -             Staff Appraisal Report
TA            -             Technical Assistance
TEU           -             Twenty-foot Equivalent Units
TKD           -             Tughlakabad ICD
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:   Edwin Lim
Sector Director:  Vincent Gouame
Project Task Manager:   Fabio Galli



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
CONTAINER TRANSPORT LOGISTICS PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    14
9. Partner Comments                                                                   15
10. Additional Information                                                            16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 27
Annex 8. Financial Covenants Compliance Status                                        28
Annex 9. Total TEUs handled by CONCOR                                                 29
Annex 10. Financial Performance of CONCOR                                             30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
witha,ut World Bank authorization.



Project ID: P009870                                       Project Name: CONTAINER TRANSPORT
Team Leader: Midori Makino                                TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       |Report Date: June 12, 2002
'4 V4 tfa t -  |    |
1. Project Data
Name: CONTAINER TRANSPORT                            L/C/TFNumber: CPL-37530;
SCL-3753A
Country/Department: INDIA                                               Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: TW - Railways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   07/03/89                               Effective: '01/31/95          01/31/95
Appraisal:  01/07/94                                 MTR: 04/26/96              04/26/96
Approval:  06/09/94                                Closing: 12/31/99            12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  Container Corporation of India/Container Corporation of India
Other Partners: The Royal Netherlands Government
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                 Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Vincent Gouarne                           Robert Panfil
Team Leader at ICR:  Fabio Galli                               Harald Hansen
ICR Primary Author:  Midori Makino; Jit Sondhi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability L
Institutional Development Impact SU
Bank Performance S
Borrower Performance. S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Project's overall objective was to provide a suitable enabling environment for container transport and
increase the capacity and efficiency of long-haul transport of high-value general cargo, particularly related
to foreign trade. The Project aimed to increase container use in general cargo transport, and encourage and
facilitate railway use for such transport wherever it is economically the best option. More specifically, the
Project aimed to:
(a)   improve the institutional framework for efficient and competitive container transport to serve
both foreign and domestic trade;
(b)   strengthen the commercial and operational performance of the Container Corporation of India
(CONCOR) in an increasingly competitive environment; and
(c)   improve the service level and capacity in the main corridors by providing modem technology
rolling stock to permit regular scheduled block train operations on gateway port corridors.
The objectives were clear, realistic and consistent with the Government of India's (GOI) long-term
investment objectives for the transport sector, which were/are: (i) removing bottlenecks; (ii) increasing
capacity; (iii) conserving energy; (iv) completing ongoing work; (v) maximizing asset utilization; and (vi)
paying special attention to rural areas. The objectives were also linked to the reforms undertaken by GOI
under its 1991 structural reform program, which were aimed at increasing private sector involvement,
liberalizing the transport sector and improving efficiency and perfornance.
The Project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India, which focused on
supporting GOI's efforts to provide an enabling environment for broadbased, efficient, private sector-led
growth while accelerating poverty alleviation and human resource development. Key CAS elements were
assisting India to become a more trade-oriented economy, improving infrastructure services, increasing
efficiency, promoting institutional capacity, and fostering competition in the transport sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project objectives have not been revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project included the following three components:
(a) Improving the institutional framework for efficient and competitive container transport by
removing some of the restrictive customs practices and policies restricting inland movement of
containers, including by road, and expanding customs working hours at the Tughlakabad Inland
Container Depot (TKD ICD).
(b) Strengthening CONCOR's commercial approach and operational capacitv in an increasingly
competitive environment by:
(i)  formalizing service relations with Indian Railways (IR) through a memorandum of
understanding (MOU) relating to container train service levels;
(ii)  divesting at least five percent of GOI's equity in CONCOR as a first step to diversifying the
shareholder base and strengthening its commercial orientation;
(iii) broadening the composition of CONCOR's Board of Directors to introduce non-official
directors to improve the Board's skill base;
(iv) refoming CONCOR's claim policy to meet customer demand and be competitive with road
-2 -



transport;
(v)  providing technical assistance and training to improve CONCOR's operational, conmmercial,
financial, and general management capabilities, with particular attention to TKD operations;
and
(vi) providing computer systems and related software to computerize accounting and inventory
control and providing commercial logistic support to CONCOR.
(c) Supporting scheduled high-qualitv container train services in the main corridors through:
(i)  acquiring and retrofitting 1,200 bogie container flatcars (BFKI) with air braking systems;
(ii)  acquiring 1,500 new container flatcars of new design prepared by the Research, Design and
Standards Organization (RDSO) that are equipped with air brakes, automatic couplers and
high-speed bogies (100 kph capability);
(iii) acquiring five prototype 60-foot, platform, lightweight, flat wagonblocks capable of carrying
three loaded 20-foot ISO containers, which utilize automatic couplers on end units and
slackness drawbars for intermediate couplings, for testing purposes in preparation for the
next generation of higher capacity flatcar;
(iv) acquiring approximately 750 new flatcars of the same design as under (ii) or an equivalent
capacity of the new designs under (iii) above if the design has been approved by the start of
procurement;
(v) acquiring complementary cargo handling equipment for TKD ICD, including one
rubber-tired gantry crane (having a span of 26.5 meters to bridge four tracks and one
roadway); two reach stackers; and five tractor/trailer trucks to handle containers from
trackside and service the container freight station (CFS) warehouses;
(vi) acquiring an electronic tracking system for container trains, flatcars and containers on a pilot
basis;
(vii) constructing civil works necessary for completing Tughlakabad development and
constructing Inland Container Depot's (ICD) at Ludhiana and Hyderabad to better serve
emerging markets; and
(viii) providing engineering services for design, inspection and test of flatcars.
The components were reasonably well designed and complementary to assisting the Project to achieve the
development objectives. Efforts were made to improve the Project's design and implementability, including;
(i) reaching agreement on key policy issues during preparation, such as the Multimodal Transport of Goods
Act, customs procedures, and private sector participation; (ii) preparing the physical tender documents
before loan negotiations; and (iii) including a comprehensive technical assistance program, funded by the
Government of the Netherlands (GON).
3.4 Revised Components:
The Project's components have not been changed except for minor revisions in the subcomponents
described in section 4.2.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group did not evaluate the Project. However, based on team member and client
interviews as well as project preparation and appraisal documents, this Project's quality at entry is rated
satisfactory for the following reasons. First, as described in section 3. 1, the Project's development
objectives were consistent with the CAS and GOI priorities at the time of appraisal. Second, the Project
objectives were clear and its design was focused. Third, in light of the low number of implementing
agencies, cofinanciers, and project components, the Project's risk profile was relatively low. Fourth, many
of the major issues and risks were identified during project preparation, including (i) difficulties in
- 3 -



increasing private sector participation, (ii) degree of IR's support, (iii) foreign exchange risk, and (iv)
institutional structure and capacity of the implementing agencies. Analysis on possible enviromnental and
resettlement issues were conducted and showed that the proposed Project should not have any major
impacts. However, insufficient attention was paid to IR's real role in CONCOR's management and
difficulties in procuring new technology flatcars using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
This resulted in significant procurement delays and incomplete delivery of the flatcars which constituted the
bulk of equipment to be procured under the Project. Details are described in section 4.2.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project achieved most of the major objectives set at appraisal and is likely to achieve substantial
development outcomes for the majority of the components. Therefore, the overall outcome is rated
satisfactory.
The first objective of improving the institutional framework has been met. During the Project's
implementation, customs practices and policies restricting the inland movement of containers were
substantially liberalized (section 4.2), and this facilitated import/export container movement by road
reducing the time containers moving inland spend in the country.
The second objective of strengthening CONCOR's commercial and operational performance has also been
met. The Project's GON-funded technical assistance (TA) component has strengthened CONCOR's
financial and management skills through training, computerization, and organizational restructuring. As a
result of the TA, CONCOR has become more commercially focused, operationally effective, and
responsive. Furthermore, GOI's partial divestiture of CONCOR lead to some extent to an improved
govemance and incentive structure. CONCOR has shown steady improvement in its operational
performance, due primarily to the introduction of modem container flatcars purchased under the loan and a
very strong market position. Container trains using these flatcars operate at 100 kph, and as a result, transit
time on the main TKD-Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), also known as Nhava Sheva Port, corridor
has been reduced from about 110 hours to 48 hours. This has resulted in substantially higher utilization of
flatcars (km/day), and higher service quality in terms of lower transit time and improved reliability. In
addition, the train tumaround time at JNPT has been reduced significantly, from the SAR estimate of 60
hours in 1994/5 to 8 hours in year 2001/2. Finally, CONCOR's financial and traffic growth performance is
substantially above SAR estimates, and despite some volatility in the Indian economy during
implementation, its overall perfornance has not been affected. The number of twenty-foot equivalent units
(TEU) handled and CONCOR's financial performance are detailed in Annex 10.
The third objective of improving the service level and capacity in the main container traffic corridors has
been substantially met: (i) the new flatcars have led to an increase in the containerization of high-value
general cargo; (ii) introduction of dedicated/regular container services between Mumbai and Northem India
have increased inland penetration of containers and hence containerization; (iii) improved efficiency of
JNPT (Mumbai) has led to mainline container vessels serving the Indian market on a regular basis for the
first time, and this has led to sharp growth in intemational container flows in and out of India; and (iv)
development of a new state of the art ICD at Dadri (near New Delhi) is likely to fully meet the demand for
container services between Northem India and Mumbai to at least 2010. Key productivity and capacity
improvement indicators are in Annex 1.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Institutional Components:
-4 -



The first component is rated satisfactory. Some of the issues related to specific customs procedures and
practices restricting inland container movement were addressed by the Central Board of Excise and
Customs, Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue, through amendments to the relevant sections of the
Customs Act and new Transshipment Regulations 1995. Liberalizing prevailing customs procedures and
policies helped create a fairer intermodal competition between rail and road for import and export container
transport. Loaded container movement from a port to an ICD for customs clearance at destination
(transshipment) is now permitted by rail, sea, air and road. The bank guarantee requirements for
transhippers have also been relaxed. All central and state government entities acting as carriers are now
exempt from providing bank guarantees. Non-government carriers are not required to provide a separate
bank guarantee either, if they are also 'custodians' (operate an ICD/CFS) and have already furnished a
bank guarantee at the ICD/CFS. It is only when the transporter is a non-government entity or not a
custodian that a bank guarantee is required for import container transshipment. On furnishing a bond, the
temporary import of containers (empty as well as loaded) is now permitted for up to six months, and there
is provision for extending it for a further period. In addition, there are no restrictions on the transport mode
of export containers stuffed at the exporter's premises and sealed by Customs for movement to an ICD,
port or airport.
4.2.2 Commercial and Operational Components:
The Project's commercial and operational components have been rated satisfactory. Most subcomponents
had been successfully implemented by Project closure, as indicated below.
(i) Formalizing service relations with IR through an MOU: Starting in FY93/94, MOUs between
CONCOR and IR (and MOR) defining and monitoring performance targets and obligations have been
drafted and signed every year. An ad hoc task force of eminent and experienced professionals sets
CONCOR's financial and operational targets at the beginning of each year, and these form the basis of the
MOU. The Department of Public Enterprise evaluates CONCOR's performance and its management at the
end of the year. CONCOR's performance has been consistently rated "excellent" over the years because it
has managed to achieve or exceed the targets set for it.
(ii) Divesting at least five percent of the GOI's equity in CONCOR: To diversify CONCOR's
shareholder base and strengthen its commercial orientation, GOI divested 20 percent of its shares in 1994
and a further 3 percent in 1995. During the second half of 1998, an additional 14 percent of the company's
shares were divested, which reduced GOI's share in CONCOR to 63 percent. The divested shares are held
by foreign institutional investors (19.6 percent), financial institutions/mutual funds/banks (15.4 percent),
and others (1.9 percent). To a large extent, the progress on partial divestiture of CONCOR was driven by
GOI's need to raise funds to reduce its fiscal deficit. GOI's decision to continue divesting beyond the
agreed five percent was also the result of GOI's policy to gradually reduce its equity in non-strategic
entities.
(iii) Broadening the composition of CONCOR's Board of Directors: The Board of Directors was
expanded with the appointment of two non-official, part-time directors on January 31, 1995. The
introduction of non-official directors was envisaged to improve the Board's skill base. At loan closing,
CONCOR's Board of Directors consisted of a part-time chairman, five full-time functional directors
(including the managing director), two government-nominated directors and three part-time, non-official
directors, which included people with extensive experience in large enterprise management, private sector
transport, and management schools.
-5 -



(iv) Reforming CONCOR's claim policy: A new claims policy, which was an effectiveness condition,
was implemented in 1994 to settle all claims, meet customer demands, and compete with road transport. A
customer satisfaction survey and interviews indicate that this change in policy has contributed to improved
customer satisfaction with CONCOR's services. On average, CONCOR receives less than 100 claims per
year, and these are mostly for domestic traffic. The average claim settlement period is about two months,
and cases that are delayed are normally due to the claimant's delay in submitting the required
documentation. Thus, CONCOR has successfully implemented a simplified claim settlement procedure.
(v) Implementing technical assistance and training: The GON-fimded TA component started in
September 1994 to assist CONCOR in; (i) establishing itself as an effective developer and operator of
intermodal transfer facilities in India; and (ii) improving its capability for managing, operating, and
maintaining its facilities to accepted performance standards and cost efficiency and to its users'
satisfaction.
There was some initial skepticism on the part of CONCOR's management on the usefulness of the
GON-funded TA. However, once a more focused TA component was developed, a more productive
working atmosphere developed. The TA component, which was scheduled to end in August 1996, was
granted a one-year extension which became knows as Phase II. The first two phases focused mainly on
improving the TKD ICD operations and achieving significant improvements in their financial management,
operational performance, and equipment maintenance. However, since CONCOR felt that additional
support was required to strengthen corporate planning, marketing, and human resources development
capabilities at the end of Phase [I, a second one-year extension (Phase Ell) was granted. Given the
ownership and active participation of CONCOR's Project team over time, most of the tangible results have
been achieved during Phase [H. They include the strategy and business plan, Decision Support System,
Design of Dadri ICD, training strategy paper, and training modules.
The TA program's overall impact has not only seen the development of necessary tools and manuals but
also the training key staff have received in further developing these tools and putting them to practical use
for CONCOR. The TA program has also made CONCOR adopt a more transparent and result-driven
approach in the way it operates than was experienced in the Project's early days.
(vi) Implementing computerization: CONCOR, with the GON-funded TA, implemented a
computerization and "Management Information System" (MIS) subcomponent. Although there were
differing opinions on the MIS's definition, scope, and detail between the GON consultant and CONCOR,
most tasks were completed and achieved their basic objectives. New computer systems and related software
for approximately US$0.6 million were purchased for accounting and inventory control, as well as to
provide commercial logistic support to CONCOR. Despite some delays in implementation of relevant
training or use of these computer systems caused by problems with installation, etc., most of CONCOR's
head office and TKD ICD staff have acquired the necessary operating skills.
4.23 Physical Components:
(i) Procurement of 2,250 new container flatcar wagons: New container flatcar wagons were to be
procured at a total cost of US$ 101.1 million including Bank financing of US$91.1 million. At loan closing,
1,905 (85 percent of original estimated quantity) flatcar wagons had been delivered to CONCOR. An
additional 1,320 cars were yet to be delivered against a current contract.
The procurement was carried out in three tranches. The first contract for 1,725 high-speed cars (Tzanche I)
was signed in April 1996. This procurement was organized on a two-stage basis in which bidders were
shortlisted based on the technical bid evaluation. Only the shortlisted bidders submitted price/commercial
- 6 -



bids. The entire Tranche I procurement process took 24 months from bid invitation to contract award,
which was far longer than anticipated because of postponement of bid opening, longer than expected bid
evaluation, Bank review, and approval of bid evaluation report by the Ministry of Railways (MOR).
Tranche I flatcar delivery was completed only in September 2001, after an overall 45-month delay in
executing the contract. This delay was caused by several factors, including an overly optimistic delivery
schedule, slow material delivery (due to inadequate working capital) and technical problems.
A second contract for 1,500 cars (Tranche H) was awarded in January 1999 based on a single stage
bidding process to reduce the tender processing time. Taking into account rapid growth in traffic and the
lower than expected unit costs for the first tranche, CONCOR requested an increased number of flatcars to
be procured under the Tranche II. The second tranche took 12 months from bid invitation to contract
award. CONCOR took time in awarding this contract because a question arose on whether the contractor
should receive a higher price (than that of the lowest local currency-only bidder) due to eventual exchange
rate fluctuations during the contract execution period. CONCOR did manage to award the contract to the
lowest evaluated responsive bidder. After 180 cars were delivered, the contract was cancelled due to the
supplier's imminent insolvency. Against fresh tenders for the balance of 1,320 cars, a new at cost and risk
contract was signed in May 2001 (five months from bid invitation) that would provide for complete
delivery by June 2002. At the time of Project closing, December 31, 2001, no deliveries under this contract
had been received. This contract was signed with Bank approval, and being a Bank-funded contract it was
entitled to deemed export benefit by Indian customs. However, since the Bank loan has closed, the contract
will now need to be funded in local currency, and will not receive any of the previous deemed export
benefits (essentially importation of inputs free of customs duties and supply of goods free of excise duties).
As it turns out, CONCOR has been able to renegotiate the contract with the supplier.
Due to lower than expected bid prices for Tranches I & II and the Indian rupee depreciation vis-a-vis the
US dollar, it was agreed to use the projected savings to procure an additional 600 flatcars under Tranche
HI. The specifications for Tranche III were exactly the same as Tranche II and bids were received on July
7, 1999. The contract could not be awarded within the extended validity period and this led the Bank to
declare this subcomponent as misprocured. In this case, CONCOR recommended that the order be placed
with a particular bidder. The Bank did not agree that the bidder CONCOR was proposing for award was
responsive. At the end, the Bank declared misprocurement since CONCOR was unable to award the
contract to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder.
This component's procurement process raises several issues that are detailed under the Borrower and Bank
performance section as well as "lessons learned" section of this report (sections 7 and 8).
(ii) Five tri-axle flatcars for testing: Five prototype 60-foot-long tri-axle flatcars were proposed to be
procured for tests in India at an estimated cost of US$0.6 million, of which the Bank loan was to finance
US$0.5 million. Each car would carry three 20-foot containers. CONCOR discussed the proposed
procurement of tri-axle bogie mounted flatcars with IR and concluded that it would not be technically
feasible at this stage to operate small wheel diameter tri-axled bogie flatcars at 100 kph on the IR system.
Therefore, the procuring and testing of five prototype cars was deemed inadvisable at that stage. At the
request of the Borrower, the Bank agreed to drop this subcomponent.
(uii) Purchase and retrofitting of 1,200 BFKI flatcars: As part of the Project, CONCOR was supposed to
procure about 1,200 BFKI cars from IR and have them retrofitted with air brakes and modified to increase
the carrying capacity from 48 to 61 tons at an estimated cost of US$27.2 million. CONCOR was to bear
fully the cost of this component. By the end of the Project, about 1,357 BFKI cars had been purchased
from IR, and all had been modified to have air brakes and increased carrying capacity. Of the 1,357 cars,
-7 -



700 were modified in IR workshops and 657 in a non-railway workshop. As anticipated, the cars'
reliability has improved dramatically, and they are now able to carry two fully loaded 20-foot containers.
I
(iv) Handling equipment (1 Rail-Mounted Gantry): One rail-mounted gantry crane was to be procured
for the TKD ICD at an estimated cost of US$2.3 million, including US$1.8 million Bank financing. This
procurement was made in 1996 at a cost of US$2.0 million. The equipment has worked satisfactorily and
has helped to enhance the ICD's container handling capacity at TKD.
(v) Trucks, chassis, and other equipment: Five tractor-trailer trucks were to be procured at an estimated
cost of US$0.2 million, entirely funded by CONCOR. This subcomponent was completed and equipment
deployed at ICD TKD.
(vi) Computers and Software (see section 4.2.2)
(vii) Transponders and related equipment: Under the Project, procurement of 6,900 transponders was
planned for application on container flatcars and seven readers for installation on the TKD-Mumbai route
at an estimated cost of US$0.5 million, including US$0.4 million of Bank financing. It was deemed that a
reliable telecommunication system was essential for the success of the automatic reader system and data
transmission to a central location. However, the telecommunications facilities at locations where readers
were to be installed had still not been developed to an extent that they would be able to support such a
system. Thus, CONCOR decided that the proposed application system could not be implemented at that
stage. At the request of the Borrower, the Bank agreed to cancel this subcomponent. However, CONCOR
was still keen to have a more basic container tracking facility so that its customers could get accurate
information on the location of their containers. As a result of this, it has set up a manual tracking system
based at IR's train control offices. Location information for individual container flat
trains/wagons/containers is collected manually and transmitted over fax or email three times daily. This
information is placed on the CONCOR website and is available to its customers.
(viii) Civil works
Expanding the TKD ICD and setting up new ICDs at Ludhiana and Hyderabad at a cost of US$10.55
mnillion were included in the project to be funded by CONCOR These works were completed on schedule,
and CONCOR invested about Rs 510 million (US$14.5 million). At Project closing, CONCOR had set up
several more ICDs to meet the growing demand for both international and domestic container transport.
Furthermore, CONCOR has started constructing a new ICD at Dadri at the cost of about US$50.0 million
that is expected to handle the projected continued very strong growth in container traffic from Northern
India to Mumbai.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Cost-benefit Analysis: Cost-benefit analysis for the Project was carried out for two components: (i)
acquisition of new flatcars funded through the loan; and (ii) retrofitting of old flatcars funded by
CONCOR. A total of 42 rakes consisting of 1,905 flatcars have been procured by CONCOR by Project
closing. The first rake was delivered in 1998, and CONCOR also retrofitted 1,357 flatcars purchased from
the Indian Railways starting from 1998 onwards.
The SAR presumed the carrying capacity of the 2,250 flatcars as 241,300 containers per annum being
moved over a distance of 1,600 km. In reality the 1,905 flatcars moved over 600,000 containers per annum
mainly operating on the TKD-JNPT, Moradabad-TKD-JNPT, TKD-Bombay Port Trust circuits. This was
mainly due to larger reduction in the turn around time than assumed in the SAR. The SAR had considered a
transit time of about 5 days for the container including the processing time at the ICD, while CONCOR
- 8 -



was able to achieve only 3.5 days. Similarly, for the retrofitted flatcars the SAR has assumed an increase in
the fleet capacity by 17,000 containers only, while an additional output of about almost 125,000 containers
was achieved.
Since the physical output of both components was much higher than the SAR assumption, the Project
components had a much higher Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV) than the
SAR estimate. A cost-benefit analysis has been conducted based on the methodology described in the SAR
The benefits have been estimated as a difference in the total operating costs (including loading/unloading,
transfer to ICD, port handling costs, inventory cost of the container based on transit time, savings in flatcar
maintenance costs, and the container cost) of road and rail transport for the number of flatcars moved by
the new flatcars or additional ones moved by the retrofitted flatcars. The ERR for the new flatcars has been
estimated at 96 percent with an NPV of Rs 6,379 million compared to ERR and NPV of 37 percent and Rs
3,113 million respectively estimated in the SAR. For the retrofitted flatcars, the NPV has been estimated at
Rs 1,276 million as against the estimated Rs 108 million in the SAR. The ERR of the retrofitted flatcars
was also very high, 155 percent as against the estimated 33 percent in the SAR as the cost incurred in the
first year was recouped in the second year itself. Details on the cost-benefit analysis for these two
components are attached in Annex 3.
The higher than anticipated ERR figures show that delays in the delivery of new container flatcars to
CONCOR had a very high cost to the economy, which although difficult to quantify, may be well beyond
the direct financial cost to CONCOR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The Project's financial rate of return (FRR) was not calculated at appraisal because the Bank deemed it to
be quite difficult to do. Instead, a comprehensive financial analysis of CONCOR and calculations of five
financial ratios, used as a proxy for a FRR, were carried out to ensure its sound financial management and
viability, since most components were to be implemented by one financially autonomous (CONCOR)
implementing agency. CONCOR's annual financial projections were reviewed, including income
statements, balance sheet, and cash flow statement. Based on the financials and projections, summary
measures of creditworthiness and expected profitability, including return on average invested capital
ratio, operating ratio, debt to equity ratio, current ratio, and debt service coverage ratio were calculated
to set baselines and targets for monitoring.
Since it is hard to quantify the contribution of the investments made under the Project to CONCOR's
overall improved performance, project-specific FRR was not calculated at Project completion. However,
significant improvements in the key performance indicators, which have consistently outperformed the SAR
projections (see Annexes 1, 8, 9 and 10), indicate that CONCOR's financial health and sustainability have
been improving through increased efficiency and revenue generation resulting from the Project. For
example, the return on average invested capital ratio, which was targeted to be above 17 percent, has
consistently been above 40 percent, and the debt to equity ratio, envisaged to be below 3 to 1 has remained
as low as 0.14 to 1 on average over the past five years. The current ratio has shown constant improvement
from 1.21 to 1 in year 1995/96 to 2.41 to I in year 2000/01, and internal cash generation has also shown a
positive flow throughout the Project implementation period. In year 2000/01, CONCOR showed a net
profit of Rs 2,200 million, twice as large as the SAR's projected estimate of Rs 1,100 million (CONCOR
financial performance attached at Annex 10).
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated substantial. The Project has generally improved CONCOR's
ability to make effective use of its human and financial capital/resources. However, since CONCOR's
-9-



management team was still drawn primarily from IR even at project closure, some concerns remain with
regards to CONCOR's management staffing. This issue was raised several times during project
implementation. However, sufficient measures have not been taken to employ regular staff in managerial
positions with the necessary skills and knowledge. Experience, in terms of time spent in the industry,
remains the major determining factor for promotion, which makes it difficult for non-IR staff to break
through the 'glass ceiling'. As long as the majority of its equity is owned by GOI, CONCOR will need to
follow GOI's salary structure and, therefore, be unable to pay market-driven compensation to its managers.
In the long run, CONCOR is likely to find it difficult to retain outstanding managers.
According to CONCOR, the Bank-funded Project has helped convince IR to be open to new ideas, such as
procuring modem technology, high-speed container flatcars and container handling equipment for which it
would otherwise be difficult to get JR's approval. Despite GOI's efforts to grant enhanced autonomy and
delegation of powers by declaring CONCOR as Category I "Mini Ratna Company" in 1998, concems
remain in CONCOR management that it still lacks the decision-making power to modemize CONCOR
operations and improve its efficiency. (A "mini ratna" is a public enterprise category defined by GOI,
which aims to enhance companies' autonomy and delegation of powers with delegated ceiling for
investment decisions.) As long as CONCOR remains a majority GOI-owned company, it will remain
subject to and controlled by MOR procurement procedures and the Vigilance Commission. CONCOR
managers are, therefore, constrained from taking normal business risks. To increase CONCOR's autonomy
and strengthen its competitiveness and sustainability, GOI would need to reduce its shares below 50
percent.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Economic growth, international trade development, and containerization: From 1995/96 to 2000/01,
India's containerized import and export trade grew rapidly at about 15 percent annually. This created a
favorable environment and offered CONCOR an opportunity to expand its operations and capture an
increased share of the growing container transport market. For example, in the greater Mumbai area over
the same period, there was an overall growth of 88 percent in the export and import TEUs handled at the
ports. This was a result of overall import/export trade growth and also the establishment of JNPT as the
premier container port in India after setting up a private sector-operated container berth within it.
CONCOR was successful in increasing its market share of container traffic at JNPT from 17 percent in
1995-96 to 29 percent in 2000-01. The containers handled by CONCOR in the Mumbai area increased
from 136,050 TEU in 1995-96 to 439,715 TEU in 2000-01, a 223 percent growth.
Poor Performance by the Manufacturer: Although the container flatcar procurement followed the ICB
procedures, all contracts were awarded to Indian manufacturers due to their low bid prices. (In fact, bid
prices were about 30-40 percent below the SAR estimate). This situation arose from the manufacturers'
inexperience in managing contracts for design, manufacture, and supply of freight cars. Traditionally, the
Indian wagon industry has been provided with key designs by IR and has undertaken the work of detailed
manufacturing designs based on the key drawings, with JR, as the purchaser, furnishing a number of
components including couplers, wheels, steel and bogies. As a result, the wagon manufacturers generally
had neither much experience in organizing timely procurement of material inputs for wagon manufacture
nor adequate financial resources to finance such procurement (in part due to a drop in orders from IR).
Further, in the contracts concluded under the loan, the suppliers had to comply with stringent delivery,
quality and performance conditions, which was not the case with the traditional IR business. The delayed
deliveries attracted contractual penalties, which further aggravated the contractor's cash flow situation.
- 10 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
IR's close ties with CONCOR have obviously benefited the Project's implementation since they have to
some extent facilitated supplying equipment, processing approvals and accessing land and train pathways
for container transport. However, CONCOR's close links with IR have also contributed to procurement
problems resulting from IR's strong influence in the selection of Tranche II and m container flatcars. GOI
should have granted CONCOR full autonomy by reducing its shareholding to less than 50 percent and by
including a larger number of non-IR members on CONCOR's Board of Directors and management team.
GOI could also have encouraged competition in the container transport market by actively promoting entry
of other players.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
CONCOR has been the implementing agency for the Project and implemented the TA component,
procurement of flatcars and other equipment and the related institutional components, in close coordination
with IR. The Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce and Ministry of Surface
Transport, implemented changes to customs procedures and practices. Although there were some
difficulties in implementing the TA component's first phase, CONCOR performed well in coordinating
with relevant stakeholders, co-financiers, shareholders, and customers to efficiently implement the
components related to the operational and commercial aspects of the Project. As for the Project's physical
component, factors subject to CONCOR's direct control included flatcar procurement, quality control and
monitoring. Despite some IR interference, various problems resulting in procurement delays, and suppliers'
poor performance, CONCOR did its best to manage the implementation process.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total SAR Project cost was estimated at US$151.0 million equivalent. The total SAR Project cost for
Bank-funded components was estimated at US$94.0 million equivalent. The final Bank-funded portion of
the Project cost is US$45.0 million equivalent. The reduction in Project size is due mainly to lower than
expected bids for the flatcars, cancellation of Tranche m flatcar purchase, and the Indian rupee
depreciation vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar (cost and financing table is in Annex 2).
The Project's disbursement and procurement perfonnance were monitored by financial specialists
throughout the implementation period. Records show that the audit reports for the Project were received on
time as stipulated under the loan agreement, and no major accountability problems have been noticed. The
claims under the Project have been fully documented, and all the contracts awarded under the Project have
been above the prior review threshold.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Project's sustainability is rated likely. At appraisal, several factors that might affect the Project's
sustainability were identified, and GOI and CONCOR took measures to address them prior to effectiveness
(refer to section 3). The Project was successfully implemented with the exception of some physical
subcomponents. CONCOR has demonstrated its ability and commitment to maintain what it has achieved
through this Project, especially its institutional and operational improvements. The Project has also
contributed to CONCOR's improved financial position, which should enable them to procure additional
flatcars and other physical assets using its own funds. Considering the relatively low rate of domestic
container movements, CONCOR is in a great position to further develop and consolidate its lead in this
rapidly and potentially large market segment.
It is, however, doubtful that CONCOR will be able to continue improving its performance at the same pace
as during the Project implementation period. Some factors contributing to significant improvements in
- 11 -



CONCOR's performance have been beyond its direct control, including a strong domestic economy,
increased international and domestic trade, and underdeveloped containerization market. In addition, GOI is
planning to focus on highways and road connections to mu-al areas, and customer feedback indicates that
their demands are elastic to the fees, which sometimes are lower for road transportation. Given the
increasing competitive threats from the road sector, CONCOR would need to strive to further improve its
position in the market, develop new markets and closely monitor the increased competitiveness of the road
transport mode.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the Project components that required technical assistance have already been integrated into
CONCOR's regular operation. Institutional, commercial, and operational improvements, which are the
most crucial factors for CONCOR's sustainable operation, have met the perfornance targets envisaged at
Project appraisal. CONCOR has also invested heavily in maintenance facilities near TKD for operation
and maintenance of the container flatcars that have been procured under the Project. These efforts have
minimized the need for special transition arrangements to regular operations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. Records show that the Project was
conceived in an era when the concept of market focus, service quality and private investment in railways
were certainly not the mainstream thinking of IR or GOI. The Project adequately took into account most of
the major relevant aspects, putting emphasis on potential risks and how to address them prior to
effectiveness (see section 3). Risks that could have been addressed with greater attention include the
procurement issues and IR's interference, which the Project experienced during implementation (see
sections 4.2.3 and 8).
Measurable performance indicators were identified and relevant financial covenants were established. The
Project could, however, have set more ambitious goals in privatizing CONCOR and included a condition to
make IR actively encourage at least one private sector entity to provide container transport by rail so that
CONCOR would not remain a monopoly within the rail subsector. Presumably, such a condition was not
included as road transport competes quite effectively with CONCOR, and the Project emphasized removing
constraints on the movement of import/export containers by road to create a level playing field between the
two modes. IR claims that, should there be demand, it would allow one or more private sector entities to
operate under the same terms as CONCOR. However, no such entity has materialized due to very high
barriers to entry resulting in part from CONCOR's strong market position and its ties with IR (see section
5.2).
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. Supervision missions included the
required expertise, were conducted regularly, and made adequate reporting and filing of documents. The
Bank monitored the loan covenants/agreed actions and raised many of the issues identified early and
proposed or recommended possible solutions. However, progress of a few subcomponents, including the
GON-funded TA and procurement of some equipment financed by CONCOR's own funds, was not always
monitored or reviewed very closely.
As for the physical components, the client has pointed to delays in Bank approvals, especially with respect
to the procurement of Tranche I flatcars. For Tranches II and Im, the Bank showed its flexibility in
allowing the procurement to go ahead despite the lirmited time available before loan closure to complete
- 12 -



delivery of the flatcars. However, given the experience with lengthy procurement delays in Tranche I and
the very short time remaining until project closing, the Bank should not have allowed the contract for the
additional 1,320 cars, or it should have ensured that CONCOR would be able to honor its own payment
obligations under this new contract even without the Bank loan. As it turns out, none of these additional
cars had been delivered by the actual Project closing date.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
For the reasons mentioned in sections 7.1 and 7.2, the Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower participated fully in project preparation, and its performance is rated satisfactory. The
Borrower based its decision to proceed with the Project based on an independent review of available
financing options. The subcomponents for testing and using tri-axle bogies and procuring transponders
appeared promising during preparation. The Borrower evaluated each of these at Project implementation.
At this time, the infrastructure to support the subcomponents was still not ready so Borrower decided not to
go ahead with them. For these reasons the subcomponents relating to tri-axle bogies for application on
flatcars and procurement of transponders were dropped by the Borrower. Thus the principles of continuous
evaluation/re-examination of various subcomponents was followed by the Borrower at all stages.
7.5 Government implementation perforrmance:
GOI's implementation performance is rated satisfactory. GOI managed to divest more CONCOR shares
than the Project originally envisaged. However, CONCOR did not enjoy adequate autonomy from MOR,
particularly in managing the major procurement aspects of the Project. It needed to seek the approval of
MOR for proposals for flatcar procurement. These approvals were delayed as MOR's multi-layered review
process was invoked, requiring extensions of bid validity periods. The long delay in concluding the Tranche
HI flatcar contract and the declaration of 'misprocurement' by the Bank was also caused by MOR's undue
influence in the bid evaluation process. Had MOR accorded full autonomy to CONCOR in handling
procurement (as per the Mini Ratna status given to CONCOR), the bid evaluation and contract award
process definitely would have been accelerated.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
CONCOR's performance as an implementing agency is rated highly satisfactory since it discharged its
responsibilities promptly and with due diligence. CONCOR noted the weaknesses of its wagon suppliers'
quality control early in the process, took effective measures to remedy the situation, and succeeded in
ensuring that the flatcars supplied were reliable and of high quality. CONCOR worked hard to secure
various approvals (including stability tests, emergency braking tests, speed certificates from RDSO,
approval from the Inspector of Railways, etc.) in a reasonable time for introducing the high-speed container
service on the New Delhi-Mumbai route. Furthermore, CONCOR monitored container train performance
closely and took suitable measures with IR to remove constraints to smooth operation of its trains.
CONCOR's proactive approach resulted in the transit time being cut by more than 50 percent and
becoming highly reliable (70 percent of trains reached their destination on time, only 3 percent of trains had
a transit time of over 60 hours against the schedule of 48 hours, 29 wagon detachments on over 6,800
trains operated).
CONCOR has met or exceeded all operational targets and complied with legal covenants, including
achieving a certain level of financial and productivity performance, maintaining MOUs with IR,
simplifying customs procedures, divesting at least five percent of shares owned by GOI, implementing the
Project with due diligence, introducing a new claims policy, and broadening the Board of Directors.
- 13 -



Financial covenant compliance status is in Annex 8. CONCOR also utilized the opportunity offered by the
Project to understand and apply international norms and trends in various facets of container handling and
transpQrt. As a result, CONCOR has internalized the changes described in section 4.2, in addition to the
following outputs: (i) relatively flat organization with its staff costs less than 2 percent of turnover; (ii)
separation of domestic and international business as profit centers; (iii) establishment of new facilities and
expansion of capacity at existing facilities, based on growth potential ascertained through market research;
and (v) substantial outsourcing in operations.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperforznance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory because of the reasons in sections 7.4 through
7.6.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 Setting clear and focused objectives
Relatively focused and realistic operational and institutional objectives were the main reasons for the
Project's overall success. Clear identification of the components and deliverables during preparation,
CONCOR's active cooperation and participation during the implementation stage, and its commercial
success made possible the timely availability of counterpart funding and facilitated achievement of the
objectives. CONCOR as a borrower and implementation agency was fully committed to the Project's
operational objectives since these promoted/complemented its commercial success. Aligning Project
objectives with the implementing agency's broad interests helped ensure the satisfactory implementation.
8.2 Managing procurement issues
The Project revealed several weaknesses in the procurement process adopted for awarding contracts for the
supply of flatcars. First, the bidder qualifying criteria were not stringent enough to exclude financially
weak bidders. It was noted that even though the selected contractor had, in theory, the technical capability
and capacity to meet the required delivery schedule, it was not able to do so because it lacked adequate
working capital to procure large volumes of input for the manufacturing process.
Second, the pre-qualification criteria could have been strengthened by including stricter financial
parameters for qualifying bidders of large contracts to ensure that only those having adequate financial
capacity qualify to bid. This could have contributed to minimize procurement delays by excluding from the
Project suppliers likely to become insolvent.
Third, there was no real devolution of procurement powers to the implementing agency. Although
CONCOR was eventually given Mini Ratna status, IR never gave it the real autonomy to make some of the
critical procurement decisions. This led to major delays in Tranches H and Im, as well as the eventual
misprocurement of Tranche mI.
These important lessons should be taken into account in planning future projects. In fact, it should be noted
that lessons learned on procurement have already contributed to effective preparation of another
Bank-funded urban transport project in Mumbai.
8.3 Encouraging full commercialization of CONCOR
Although CONCOR operates under the Companies Act and the private sector owns 37 percent of its
shares, it is still not able to operate in a fully commercial manner. Partial privatization has produced a more
commercial rnindset in CONCOR, but its full commercialization cannot be completed without a decrease in
GOrs shareholding to less than 50 percent and further independence from IR. Another issue related to
- 14 -



CONCOR's lack of autonory is that most talented staff seconded from IR often go back to IR since they
have much better long-term promotion prospects, and the pay scales are roughly the same. Until GOI's
share in CONCOR is less than 50 percent, this problem will persist since CONCOR is not able to pay the
'premium' required to get good IR staff to stay with CONCOR.
8.4 Recognizing the Bank's contribution in facilitating introduction/adoption of modern technology
The Bank played an important role as a catalyst for upgrading container flatcar technology that resulted in
groundbreaking changes in operational practices for container rail transport with respect to train operating
speed, transit time and service reliability. Under the current operating conditions, wagon utilization in terms
of km/day has more than doubled and is about 500 km/day. IR raised strong reservations on increasing
freight train speed from 70 to 100 km/hour until CONCOR, using the Bank-finded high-speed wagons,
demonstrated that this was feasible. The most positive result of CONCOR's high speed service is that IR is
now convinced of the enormous benefits that accrue and is, therefore, extending the concept to its own long
distance freight trains. IR has allocated funds in its 2002-03 budget for modifying existing wagons to make
them capable of 100 kph operation.
CONCOR, having reaped the benefits of upgrading technology and technical assistance arising from this
Project, is now keen to carry the process further. This increases the prospects of sustaining the technical
and operational improvements introduced during the Bank Project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments received from CONCOR, dated May 8,2002:
The preparation of an Implementation Completion Report for the Container Transport Logistics Project at
this stage appears to be premature as CONCOR has yet to receive the balance 1,320 flat cars due against
the risk and cost contract of the second Tranche. The 1,320 flat cars are on order and the procurement has
been financed by the World Bank under the Project. CONCOR is of the view that even though the Project
objectives have largely been achieved, the Project cannot be considered to be complete till the delivery of
these wagons is effected. Therefore, the requisite information for the draft Implementation Completion
Report required by the World Bank can only be fiurnished after the receipt of these wagons as it is only
after the receipt of these wagons that the gains of the Project would be consolidated and clear picture of the
objective vis-a-vis the actual achievements could be arrived at.
While the Project came into effect in January 1995, the first sign of success was seen only in September
1998 when the first few rakes of the new wagons were run at 100 kmph on commercial basis. The transit
time of containers on the Delhi-Mumbai sector was cut by more than half, from over 100 hours to less
than 48 hours. The initial lag of almost three years was due to technical and operational factors relating to
the introduction of freight operations at 100 kmph for the first time on the Indian Railway system. There
was, therefore, a strong justification for extending the Project by 3 years i.e. up to December 2002.
CONCOR's reguest for the third extension up to December 2002 was supported by the Department of
Economic Affairs. Ministry of Finance. Government of India. The request was. however, tumed down by
the Bank without taidng cognizance of the likely benefits which would have accrued both in economic and
financial terms if the funding was continued for one more year and has really upset the efforts of CONCOR
to consolidate the gains.
CONCOR's request for a third one year extension of the loan closing date was to cover the procurenient of
1.320 wagons. which are due to be delivered against a contract awarded by CONCOR with the Bank's
approval in May 2001. This contract is at the risk and cost of the initial tranche-II Supplier who was
- 15 -



awarded the contract for the supply of 1,500 wagons in January 1999. This Supplier was able to supply
only 180 wagons till September 2000 and the contract had to be terminated by CONCOR owing to various
breaches of contract on the part of the Supplier and immninent insolvency of the Supplier. Thereafter,
CONCOR decided to procure the balance 1,320 wagons against the Tranche-II contract by following the
identical bidding documents so as to be able to legally enforce any risk of higher costs on the defaulting
Supplier. It was clear at that stage in November -December 2000 itself that CONCOR would not be able
to receive the balance of 1,320 wagons by December 2001. A reference to this effect was made to the Bank
indicating that deliveries against a new contract would now most likely be completed only by November
2002. The Bank communicated its approval to go ahead with the procurement but with the condition that
CONCOR would be responsible for any contractual obligation under the contract after December 2001. In
view of the urgent requirement of these wagons, CONCOR had no option but to issue the ICB without the
prior extension to the loan closing date with the hope that the Bank would favorably consider the request
for extension at the appropriate time. This was, however, not to be and CONCOR has had to renegotiate
the contract consequent to the closure of the loan on December 31, 2001 to cover the impact of the loss of
the benefits of "deemed exports" which were available to the contract when the funding was from the Bank.
The deliveries against this contract are now expected to be completed by December 2002. While basic price
of the contract remains the same, CONCOR has also undertaken to reimburse the Supplier the duties of
excise and customs which have now become applicable on these supplies. CONCOR shall, therefore, be
able to assess the costs and benefits of the Container Transport Logistics Project only after these deliveries
are complete. The Borrowers contribution to the ICR shall be submitted thereafter.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments received from the Royal Netherlands Embassy in New Delhi, dated April 25, 2002:
Thank you for sending me the Draft ICR for above-mentioned project. I have read this document with
considerable interest. I, of course, focused primarily on the TA component, because that was the
Netherlands contribution to the project. I find the wording of para 4.2.2 (v) technical assistance and
training broadly in order and in line with our own PCR findings. The difficulties in the initial phase may
actually have been understated by you when you write that "some initial difficulties were encountered."
Phase II of the TA was absolutely needed for the completion of the envisaged programme! With hindsight
it was a correct decision, and so was the granting of a Phase Im to round off our involvement.
I am happy to note that completion of the project's components overall has been rated 'satisfactory'.
Developments in the container business have been tremendous over the past years, and CONCOR is
playing an important role, strengthened by this project.
I have no further comments."
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 16 -



Mgwi  II                                   I.,_
,I ;
I  -w-  ._
E  2E!   *-                -         IZ ______________________
ut - #   --  e      ----  -
#~~~~~~~~ i.  -
X~~~ il      g - -- --
Q~~~~~~ .                                 '  I   _ ..,i-- ----..>x  ;



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements at Appraisal (in US$ equivalent)
S. No. Project Element                Procurement Method     NBF (a)  Total Cost
ICB      NCB      Others    _
1   Works                               l        l           12.1 (b)  12.1 (b)
2   Goods and equipment                 l        l _
2.1  New rolling stock (2,250)      101.1                                101.1
_ _________________________    (91.1) _                             (91.1)
2.2 Five tri-axle flatcar for testing                 0.6 (c)              0.6
_                                                  (0.5)              (0.5)
2.3 Purchase of 1,200 used BFK flat                          23.1 (b)  23.1 (b)
cars
2.4 Retrofit braking system of 1,200                          4.1 (b)   4.1 (b)
BFK flat cars
2.5  Handling equipment                                        1.0 (b)  3.3 (1.8)
2.3 (1.8)
2.6 Trucks, chassis and other                                 0.2 (b)   0.2 (b)
_equipment
2.7  Computers and software                                    0.6 (b)  0.6 (b)
2.8 Tranponders and related equipm    0.5                                  0.5
(0.4)                               (0.4)
3   Technical assistance'
3.1  Capacity building and training                      0.2   4.0 (d)  4.2 (d)
__________________________                         (0.2)             (0.2)
3.2 Project preparation and                                    1.2 (b)  1.2 (b)
implementation support
103.9               0.8     46.3     151.0
Grand Total                    (93.3) _            (0.7)        1   (94.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate amount financed by Bank. The order of these notes are:
(a)   Not Bank financed.
(b)   Financed by CONCOR.
(c)   Procurement of the prototype tri-axle flatcar for testing purposes may be acquired
either through ICB or from the proprietary manufacturer.
(d)   Financed under the Netherlands Grant.
- 18 -



Summary of Actual Procurement Arrangements (in US$ equivalent)
S. No Project Element              Procurement Method     NBF (a) Total Cos
__________________ TICB            NCB      Others  NBF (a) Total Cos
I   Works (b)                 |         T      r       l_l
2   Goods and equipment      7          1      L         __     L     44.9
2.1 New rolling stock (2,250)  7
2.2 Five tri-axle flatcar for testin  (c)  I
2.3 Purchase of 1,200 used BFK
flat cars (b)                    _                  _
2.4 Retrofit braking system of
1,200 BFK flat cars (b)
2.5 Handling equipment
2.6 Trucks, chassis and other
equipment (b)                                          _
2.7 Computers and software (b)
2.8 Transponders and related
equipment (c)              _
3   Technical assistance                        _   _0.2
3.1  Capacity building and training (d)
3.2 Project preparation and
implementation support (b)
I    iTotal Bank fund disbursements (e)                                 45.1
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate amount financed by Banik. The order of these notes are:
(a)   Not Bank financed.
(b)   Financed by CONCOR.
(c)   Dropped components.
(d)   Financed under the Netherlands Grant.
(e)   Table includes Bank funded components only.
Project Disbursement Status for the Bank funded components
(US$ equivalent)
Category                    Amounts disbursed
Flatcars, cargo handling, and other                  44,902,114
equipment
Technical assistance and training                       170,151
Subtotal                                             45,072,265
Cancelled as of March 31, 2000                       13,870,000
Cancelled as of May 5, 2000                           1,130,000
Cancelled as of April 30,2002                        33,927,735
Original Loan Amount                                 94,000,000
-19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic cost-benefit analysis has been carried out for two components of the project, (i) acquisition
of 2,250 flat cars funded through this loan, and (ii) retrofitting of 1,200 BFKI flat cars. This economic
analysis is based on re-evaluation of the traffic data, implementation costs, and cost and benefits of the
Project components.
Methodology for Economic Analysis:
Staff Appraisal Report: The economic benefits of introducing the new flat cars were computed for the
reduced transport costs of container rail movement (with the Project) as compared with road transport
(without Project) from northem India to the three gateway ports of BPT, JNPT and HOM, with a
weighted distance of 1,600 km. It was assumed that without these new flat cars, the container traffic
would move by the road transport. The transportation costs by the two altematives included the haulage
costs, terminal handling costs at ports, terminal handling costs at ICD (in case of rail transport), road
transport cost to ICD (equivalent to 100 km for rail movement), cargo inventory costs based on the transit
time of container, and container costs. In case of new flat cars their equivalent depreciation costs were
deducted from the rail freight to avoid double counting. All financial costs were converted to economic
costs using a standard conversion factor for India of 0.8 in 1993 and all prices were for late 1993. The
SAR assumed that the 2,250 flat cars would carry a total of 241,300 TEUs, (about 154,500 loaded)
annually from 1997 onwards.
The economic benefits of the retrofitting of 1,200 existing BFKI flat cars were estimated for the
incremental traffic that could be carried by these flat cars because of higher operating speeds resulting in
an increase in their capacity by about one-third of their original capacity. The benefits have been estimated
for the difference in the transportation costs by road and rail for the incremental traffic. In addition, the
savings in the maintenance costs of the retro-fitted flat cars were considered.
ICR Approach: The cost benefit analysis methodology used for the ICR follows the approach described
above for the actual traffic and delivery schedule of flat cars. Since the first new rake was delivered in
1998, the economic costs of road and rail transport have been obtained for 1998 and used as the base for
the remaining period. The value for travel time used for computing the inventory costs have been updated
on actual basis for the new and retrofitted flat cars. Inventory cost per day has been modified using the
SAR estimates multiplied by inflation between 1993 and 1998 (which was 45 percent). Values for loading
and handling costs of the containers at the ports and the container depot have been collected from
CONCOR. All financial costs have been converted to economic costs using a standard conversion factor
for India of 0.9 in 1998 prices.
Since both the first new flat car rake was delivered and the retrofitted flat cars came into operation in
1998, the period for economic analysis starts from 1998 onwards for 20 years for the new flat cars and 15
years for the retrofitted flat cars respectively. The duration is same as in the SAR but the start date has
been changed from 1994 to 1998.
Year wise delivery of flat cars, their cost, and the number of containers moved by these rakes have been
tabulated below:
Traffic carried in different type of wagons by CONCOR                                  ,
Year       New Flat Cars  I       BFKI            BOXK, KH            BFKI, Vac
Av rakes in TEUs   Av rakes in TEUs   Av. rakes  TEUs     Av. rakes  TEUs
service  handled   service   handled  in service handled  in service handled
1998-99       2.5       24,0595                      1       577,401   38       200,486
1999-00       13       153,535   14        99,347j  92       514,796    24       135,473
000-01        23       365,655   28       198,49     73      417,891    10        62,68
- 20 -



12001-02*  1  40    1  364,436   34    1  174,2951   58   1  237,676    4    1    15,8451
* upto October 2001 only.
Cost of new rakes:
Year      No. of Rakes #      Cost (incl ST & freight), Rs    Maintenace paid*, Rs
1998-99          6                               293,652,00                4,677,174
1999-00         11                               539,730,00C               28,638.080
2000-01         20                              1,006.607,00C               68,324,229
2001-02          5                               244,710,00(o               46,638,977
* Maintenance charges are paid every quarter. Last paid in September, 2001.
# Each rake consists of 45 flat cars
Cost of BFKI rakes purchased and retrofitted:
Year            No. of rakes   Cost of purchase/retrofitting, Rs  Maintenace, Rs
1998-99              38                          896,200,000                  nil
1999-00              6                            32,340,000            30,790560
2000-01              25                          134,750,000            31,923,030
2001-02              5                            26,950,00(            19,963,561
In case of new flat cars, the costs and benefits were calculated for TKD-JNPT-TKD, TKD-BPT-TKD
and Moradabad-TKD-JNPT-TKD circuits, a weighted average distance of about 1,500 km, while for the
retrofitted BFKI wagons the TKD-TNMP-TKD, Bangalore-TNMP-Bnagalore, TKD-BPT-TKD circuits,
with a weighted average distance of about 1500 km was considered because of the major use of these type
of wagons on the respective circuits.
In the absence of data provided by CONCOR on the fees paid to IR for carrying containers on their own
flat cars, the figures were estimated using the freight charged by CONCOR from the users, discounting it
by 20 percent (discussions with the IR and others suggested that IR gives a rebate of 19 percent to the
CONCOR for using their own wagons). The modified financial freight cost was converted to economic
cost by multiplying it by the standard factor for India, 0.9. The inventory cost and the container costs were
estimated by inflating the SAR values by a factor of 1.45, the WPI index for 1998 with respect to 1993.
The port handling charges were based on the charges for the JNPT.
Comparison of project outputs with respect to the estimated capacity of the 2,250 new flat cars and the
capacity inrease of 1,200 retrofitted cars reveal that the assumptions in the SAR were very pessimistic and
conservative. In reality, the project output have shown 2.5 times for.the new cars (for only 1,905 cars) and
8 times for the retrofitted cars.
Results of the Cost Benefit Analysis:
New Flat cars: The ERR and NPV for the new flat cars are 96 percent and Rs 6,379 million, as against
the SAR estimates of 37 percent and Rs 3,113 million respectively. The reason for the higher ERR are the
much higher volume of traffic carried by these cars as highlighted above. The transit time, including
loading/unloading time and detention at the TKD yard, has also been lower than estimated.
Retrofitted BFKI flat cars: The ERR and NPV for the 1,350 retrofitted flat cars were 155 percent and Rs
1,276 million compared to only 33 percent and Rs 108 million respectively estimated in the SAR at 12
percent discount rate for 1,206 flat cars. The reason,was much higher increase in the traffic carrying
capacity then estimated in the-SAR, as explained above.
-21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Inplementation  Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
August 1991                  1   Financial Analyst
I    Economist
December 1991                1   Financial Analyst
I   Economist
3    Consultants
February 1993                1   Mission Leader
2    Railway Specialist
I   Financial Anaiyst
I   Ports Specialist
I   Container Trans. Spec
June 1993                    1   Mission Leader
I   Project Officer
2    Maritime Specialist
I   Legal
I   Transport Specialist
I   Railway Specialist
I   Financial Analyst
SeptJOct. 1993               1   Financial Analyst
I    Economist
S    Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
January 1994                 1    Mission Leader
I    Project Officer
I    Legal Advisor
I   Transport Specialist
I    Railway Specialist
I    Procurement Engineer
I    Resettlement Expert
Supervision
November 1994                 1   Task Manager                      HS            HS
I   Financial Analyst
I   Rail Consultant
I   Maritime Specialist
April 1995                    1   Task Manager                      HS            HS
I   Financial Analyst
I   Rail Consultant
I   Maritime Specialist
I   PSD Specialist
I   Consultant
April 1996                    1   Task Manager                       S             HS
I   Financial Analyst
I   Railway Specialist
- 22 -



December 1996                 1   Task Manager                        S             S
2   Railway Specialist
I   Financial Analyst
March 1997                    1   Task Manager                        S             S
2   Railway Specialist
I   Financial Analyst
October 1997                  1   Task Manager                        S             S
2   Railway Specialist
1   Financial Analyst
April 1998                    1   Task Manager                        S             S
1   Railway Specialist
I   Financial Analyst
I   Transport Economist
November 1998                 1   Task Manager                        S             S
I   Transport Economist
I   Railway Specialist
June 1999                     1   Task Manager                        S             S
I   Railway Specialist
I   Financial Analyst
April 2000                    1   Task Manager                        S              S
I   Transport Economist
I   Railway Specialist
October 2000                  1   Task Manager                        U             S
I   Railway Specialist
I   Program Analyst
I   Transport Specialis
April 2001                    1   Task Manager                        U              S
I   Transport Economist
I   Railway Specialist
ICR
November 2001                 1    Task Manager                       S              S
I    Transport Economist
1    Railway Specialist
December 2001                 1    Financial Analyst
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
__ _ _ _ _   No. Staff weeks        US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                59.3                        261.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                     68.3                         80.3
Supervision                             101.62                        227.8
ICR                                      10.47                         23.1
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Nqt Applicable)
Rating
3Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM O N        * NA
3Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
3 Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
3 Financial                            * H  OSUOM O N       O NA
IZ Institutional Development           0 H   0 SU 0 M  0 N   0 NA
E Environmental                        O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction              O H  OSU*M      O N  O NA
N Gender                         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
n Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM O N        O NA
X Private sector development           0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
3 Public sector management             0 H  0 SU 0 M 0 N     0 NA
C3 Other (Please specify)              OH   OSUOM      ON    O NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
I Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS        O  U   O HU
FS Overall                                           OHS OS        O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
 Preparation                                        OHS OS        O  U   O HU
F  Government implementation performance             O HS OS       0  U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S      0  U   0 HU
F Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report (May 9, 1994)
Loan Agreement (August 1994)
Guarantee Agreement (August 1994)
Preparation and Supervision Mission Reports
Project Status Reports
Mid-term Review Mission Report (April 1996)
CONCOR Annual Reports 1988/89-2000/01
CONCOR Technical Assistance Project Completion Report (Government of the
Netherlands) November 1999
Economic Analysis Calculation
- 27 -



Additional Annex 8.Fin ancial Covenants Compliance Status
Reqiured values as per
Financial Covenants   Legal Agreement       FY94/95   FY95/96 FY96197   FY97/98  FY98/99 FY99/00    FY0O/Ol
Return on Average     > than or = to 17%        28%      40%       61%      61%      48%       43%     42%
Invested Capital Ratio
Oeprating Ratio       < than 83%                83%      85%       70%      73%      74%       72%     72%
Debt to Equity Ratio  Not > than 3 to 1      0.46 to 1 0.06 to 1  0.17 to 1 0.13 to 1 0.18 to 1  0.17 to 1 0.07 to 1
Current Ratio         Not < than 1 to 1         1 to 1 1.21 to 1  1.5 to 1  1.5 to 1 1.22 to 1  2.29 to 1 2.41 to I
Debt Service Coverage  > than or = to 1.7 to 1  4 to 1 9.15 to 1  12.5 to 1  15.4 to 1 98.6 to 1  4.88 to 1 2.39 to I
- 28 -



Additional Annex 9.To tal TEUs handled by CONCOR
Total TEUs Handled by CONCOR (projected in SAR)
Financial Year     19931     19941    19951    19961     19971    19981    19991    20001      20011      2002
TEUs Handled
International   122,607  170,000 [ 221,000  276,000  332,000  390,000   429,000  471,900    519,191    570,999
Domestic         32,869   51,000    55,000   64,000   76,000    80,000   88,000 l 96,800     106,480   117,128
Total           155,476  221,000   276,000  340,000  408,000   470,000  517,000 l 568,700   625,671    688,127
Total TEUs Handled by CONCOR (actual)
Financial Year      19931    19941    19951    19961     19971    19981    1999[     20001      20011      2002
TEUs Handled
International   122,645  188,347   275,615  349,141  424,741   491,481  576,790  664,490    753,368    905,058
Domestic         32,940   48,824   127,017  244,977  278,801 ,230,238   225,156  238 61     291,360    326,775
Total           155,585  237,171   402,632  594,118  703,542   721,719  801,946  903,151   1,044,728  1,231,833
Actual / Projected (in %)
Financial Year     19931     19941    1995]    19961     19971    19981     19991    20001      2001[      2002
TEUs Handled
Intesational       100%         11%  125%       3%      37%      2 126%    134%1             14%          279%
Domestic           100%      961%    2312%     383%     367%     288%[ 134%[        141%1      4%         159%
Total              100%]    107%      146%     175%     172%      154%     155%j    159%[      167%       179%
- 29 -



Additional Annex 10.Fina ncial Performance of CONCOR
CONCOR's Projected Financial Performance at appraisal (Rs million)
1992-93  1993-94 1994-95  1995-96 1996-97 1997-98  1998-99  1999-00  2000-01  2001-02
Operating Income        817.5  1,177.5  1,640.3  2,203.9  2,892.3  3,609.1  4,375.2  5,315.1  6,473.1  7,892.1
Other Income             82.0    42.6    17.9    16.1     64.6    83.1   164.0    246.8     333.0   446.0
Total Income            899.5  1,220.1  1,658.2  2,220.0  2,956.9  3,692.2  4,539.2  5,561.9  6,806.1  8,338.1
Operating Expenses      632.1   921.1  1,186.6  1,530.1  1,951.2  2,472.0  1,998.7  3,643.7  4,431.6  5,395.2
Gross Profit            267.4   299.0   471.6    689.9  1,005.7  1,220.2  1,540.5  1,918.2  2,374.5  2,942.9
Depreciation              4.8    25.6    87.0    124.2   208.7   256.6   305.8    301.5     327.0   352.9
Profit Before Tax       250.3   252.4   179.8   270.5    350.0   490.8   751.9    973.4   1,077.9  1,386.3
Tax                      77.5    56.6     2.6     -        -       -       -      157.2     491.0   734.1
Net Profit              172.8   195.8   177.2   270.5    350.0   490.8   751.9    973.4   1,077.9  1,3863
CONCOR's Actual Financial Performance (Rs million)
Description           1992-93  1993-94 1994-95 1995-96  1996-97 1997-98  1998-991   -00  2000-01
Operating Income        811.3  1,145.2  2,173.4  3,893.6  5,343.2  6,062.5  6,847.7  8,314.2  10,748.0
Other Income             88.2    58.4    31.5    66.8    141.7   223.0   315.9    334.6     340.0
Total Income            899.5  1,203.6  2,204.9  3,960.4  5,484.9  6,285.5  7,163.6  8,648.8  11,088.0
Operating Expenses      644.3   895.0  1,660.6  2,802.6  3,717.6  4,370.6  4,961.0  5,769.9  7,525.1
Gross Profit            255.2   308.6   544.3  1,157.8  1,767.3  1,914.9  2,202.6  2,878.9  3,562.9
Depreciation              4.9    37.3    73.0    89.3    103.9   115.4   122.7    226.2     272.7
Profit Before Tax       250.3   271.3   471.3  1,068.5  1,663.4  1,799.5  2,079.9  2,652.7  3,290.2
Tax                      77.5    63.0   242.1   537.3    709.4   632.7   665.1    900.0   1,122.5
Net Profit              169.3   210.2   238.9   522.3    952.5  1,158.0  1,406.6  1,775.9  2,166.5
Divident Declared        17.5    26.0    38.9    77.9    129.9   129.9   292.4    357.5     435.4
Earnings per share (Rps   2.6     3.2     3.7     8.0     14.7    17.8    21.6     273       333
Net Profit
2,500.0
2,000.0
51,00.0
500.0 
1992- 1993- 1994- 1995- 1996- 1997- 1998- 1999- 2000-
93   94    95   96    97   98    99   00    01
Year
|4--Projected at appraisal _  Actual
- 30 -






IMAGiNG
Report No.:         24136
Type:     ICR



