Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3753 IN
                              Loan Agreement
                  (Container Transport Logistics Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                  CONTAINER CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
                           Dated August 29, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3753 IN
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CONTAINER
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED (the Borrower).
    WHEREAS: (A) India, acting by its President (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
    (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect
of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
    (C)   the Royal Netherlands Government has provided a
technical assistance grant to India to assist the Borrower in
the carrying out of part of the Project; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
    which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Railways" means the Ministry of Railways of the
Guarantor;
    (b)   "MOU" means the Memorandum of Understanding to be
entered into between the Railways and the Borrower to ensure
the availability of trains and specified container train
pathways;
    (c)   "Bombay Port" means the Bombay Port Trust established
pursuant to Section 4 of the Bombay Port Trust Act, 1879, as
amended, of the Guarantor;
    (d)   "Nehru Port" means the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust at
Nhava Sheva established pursuant to Section 4 of the Major Port
Trusts Act, 1963, as amended, of the Guarantor;
    (e)   "Madras Port" means the Port of Madras Port Trust
established pursuant to Madras Port Trust Act, 1905, as
amended, of the Guarantor;
    (f)   "Dutch Grant" means the technical assistance grant made
by the Royal Dutch Government to the Guarantor to assist the
Borrower in carrying out Part B of the Project;
    (g)   "Container Depot" means the Tughlakabad Inland
Container Depot of the Borrower; and
    (h)   "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower (April 1
through March 31).
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of ninety-four million dollars
($94,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
Page  3
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Page  4
          Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
          determined in respect of such Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and business practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1994, or
such later date as the Bank may agree, enter into an agreement
with Bombay Port, Nehru Port, Madras Port each to ensure a
substantial improvement in the turnaround time of container
flats in the respective port areas which shall include loading
and unloading of containers.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall for the duration of the
Project, maintain a satisfactory MOU in force as revised
annually and shall furnish to the Bank such MOU by April 30,
1995 for FY1995-1996 and by each April 30 thereafter the MOU
for the subsequent fiscal year. Without any limitation to the
foregoing the MOU shall contain provisions as to increased
availability of guaranteed trains and reduced transit times.
    Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out with the Bank and
the Guarantor, by December 31, 1995, an implementation review
of the Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
                 Management and Operations of the Borrower
    Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and
financial practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
    Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property,
and, as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial
and business practices.
    Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Page  5
    Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not sell, lease, or transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its properties or assets which shall be
required for the efficient carrying on of its businesses and
undertakings, including the Project, but the Borrower shall be
at liberty to dispose of any of its properties or assets which
are not so required.
    Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause its subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement to the extent to which the same may be
applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding upon
each such subsidiary.
    Section 4.06. The Borrower shall inform the Bank prior to
making any major changes in its organizational structure or in
the scope of activities handled by it.
                                 ARTICLE V
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                and expenses and related statements) and the
                records and accounts for each fiscal year
                audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than seven months after the
                end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                its financial statements for such year as so
                audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
                auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and financial
                statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
    Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall earn, for each of its fiscal years an annual
return of not less than 17% of the average current net value of
the Borrower's fixed assets in operation.
    (b)   Before February 28, in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
    (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
charges) in order to meet such requirements.
    (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
                the Borrower's net operating income for the
Page  6
                fiscal year in question by one half of the sum of
                the current net value of the Borrower's fixed
                assets in operation at the beginning and at the
                end of that fiscal year.
         (ii)   The term "net operating income" means total
                operating revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)   The term "total operating revenues" means
                revenues from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                expenses related to operations, including
                administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                depreciation on the average current gross value
                of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation, or
                other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding
                interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)   The average current gross value of the Borrower's
                fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as
                one half of the sum of the gross value of the
                Borrower's fixed assets in operation at the
                beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as
                valued from time to time in accordance with sound
                and consistently maintained methods of valuation
                satisfactory to the Bank.
          (vi)  The term "current net value of the Borrower's
                fixed assets in operation" means the gross value
                of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation less
                the amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued
                from time to time in accordance with sound and
                consistently maintained methods of valuation
                satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain, for each of its fiscal years, a
ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues
not higher than 83%.
    (b)   Before February 28, in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of
such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
    (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
prices) in order to meet such requirements.
    (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                expenses related to operations, including
                administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                depreciation on the average current gross value
                of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation, or
                other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding
                interest and other charges on debt; and
         (ii)   The term "total operating revenues" means
                revenues from all sources related to operations.
    Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence
Page  7
of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than
3 to 1.
    (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                after the date on which it is originally
                incurred.
         (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                providing for such debt or for the modification
                of its terms of payment on the date of such
                contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                providing for such guarantee has been entered
                into.
        (iii)   The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
                specific liabilities.
          (iv)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                exchange acceptable to the Bank.
    Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain a ratio of current assets to
current liabilities of not less than 1:1.
    (b)   Before February 28, in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
    (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
charges) in order to meet such requirements.
    (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "current assets" means cash, all assets
                which could in the ordinary course of business be
                converted into cash within twelve months,
                including accounts receivable, marketable
                securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses
                properly chargeable to operating expenses within
                the next fiscal year;
         (ii)   The term "current liabilities" means all
                liabilities which will become due and payable or
                could under circumstances then existing be called
                for payment within twelve months, including
                accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
                requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of
                taxes, and dividends; and
        (iii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
Page  8
                shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                exchange acceptable to the Bank.
    Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the projected
internal cash generation of the Borrower for each fiscal year
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least
1.7 times the estimated debt service requirements of the
Borrower in such year on all its debt including the debt to be
incurred.
    (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                after the date on which it is originally
                incurred;
         (ii)   The term "internal cash generation" means the
                difference between:
                (A)    The sum of revenues from all sources both
                       operational and nonoperational; and
                (B)    the sum of all expenses related to
                       operations, including administration,
                       adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
                       lieu of such taxes, but excluding provision
                       for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                       charges and interest and other charges on
                       debt.
    Section 5.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
for the Bank's comments, not later than February 28 of each
fiscal year, starting February 28, 1995 its annually updated
Five-Year Business and Finance Plan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be
necessary on its part to achieve performance and productivity
indicators, including such indicators for Container Depot,
agreed with the Bank.
                                ARTICLE VI
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a change shall have been made in the Memorandum,
or Articles, of Association of the Borrower which would
materially and adversely affect the financial condition or
operations of the Borrower, or its ability to perform any of
its obligations under this Agreement.
    Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that any event specified in Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VII
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Page  9
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   that the Borrower has implemented a new claims
settlement policy; and
    (b)   the Board of Directors of the Borrower shall have been
broadened by the appointment thereto of nonofficial part-time
directors in accordance with the guidelines No. 18(6)/91-9m,
dated March 16, 1992, of the Department of Public Enterprises
of the Guarantor.
    Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 8.01. The Managing Director, or such other person as
shall be duly authorized by the Managing Director, of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    For the Borrower:
          Container Corporation of India Limited
          4th Floor, Kanishka Office Plaza
          19, Ashoka Road
          New Delhi - 110 001
          India
                                         Telex:
                                           31 - 62309 CONT IN
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Joseph D. Wood
                                                  Regional Vice President
Page  10
                                                               South Asia
                       CONTAINER CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
                       By /s/ Narayan Valluri
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated                 % of
                            (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Flat cars, cargo          91,800,000            100% of foreign
    handling and other                              expenditures and
    equipment                                       100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory cost)
(2) Technical assistance         200,000        100%
    and training
(3)  Unallocated               2,000,000
                              __________
        TOTAL                 94,000,000
                              ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of the Guarantor; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $5,000,000 may be made in respect of Category 1
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after January 1, 1994.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to help develop a necessary
framework for container transport.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Page  11
Part A:
    Improvement of the institutional framework for efficient and
competitive container transport by removing some of the
restrictive customs practices and policies restricting inland
movements of containers to enable the users freedom of choice
as to the mode of transport.
Part B:
    Strengthening of the commercial approach and operational
capacity of the Borrower in an increasingly competitive
environment, including provision of computer systems and
related software to computerize accounting, inventory control
and providing commercial logistic support.
Part C:
    Supporting a program of scheduled high quality container
train services in the main corridors through:
          (i)   acquisition and retrofitting of about 1,200 flat
                cars to air braking systems;
         (ii)   acquisition of about 1,500 new container flat
                cars equipped with air brakes and high speed
                bogies (100 KPH capability);
        (iii)   acquisition of five prototype 60 foot long light
                weight flat cars capable of carrying three loaded
                20-foot containers for testing purposes in
                preparation for the next generation of higher
                capacity flat cars;
         (iv)   acquisition of about 750 new flat cars of the
                same design as under (ii) above or of an
                equivalent capacity of the new designs under
                (iii) above provided the design has been approved
                by the time of starting procurement;
          (v)   acquisition of complementary cargo handling
                equipment for the Container Depot, including one
                rubber tired gantry crane (having a span of 26.5
                meters), two reach stackers, and other ancillary
                equipment;
         (vi)   acquisition of an electronic tracking system for
                container trains, flat cars and containers on a
                pilot basis;
        (vii)   construction of civil works necessary for
                completing development of the Container Depot and
                construction of new depots at Ludhiana and
                Hyderabad to better serve emerging markets; and
       (viii)   provision of engineering services for design
                inspection and testing of flat cars.
Part D:
    Provision of technical assistance and training to improve
the Borrower's operational, commercial, financial and general
management capabilities, with particular attention to the
operations at the Container Depot.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
Page  12
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 2000                              1,780,000
August 15, 2000                                1,845,000
February 15, 2001                              1,915,000
August 15, 2001                                1,980,000
February 15, 2002                              2,055,000
August 15, 2002                                2,130,000
February 15, 2003                              2,205,000
August 15, 2003                                2,285,000
February 15, 2004                              2,370,000
August 15, 2004                                2,455,000
February 15, 2005                              2,545,000
August 15, 2005                                2,635,000
February 15, 2006                              2,735,000
August 15, 2006                                2,835,000
February 15, 2007                              2,935,000
August 15, 2007                                3,040,000
February 15, 2008                              3,155,000
August 15, 2008                                3,270,000
February 15, 2009                              3,385,000
August 15, 2009                                3,510,000
February 15, 2010                              3,635,000
August 15, 2010                                3,770,000
February 15, 2011                              3,905,000
August 15, 2011                                4,050,000
February 15, 2012                              4,195,000
August 15, 2012                                4,350,000
February 15, 2013                              4,505,000
August 15, 2013                                4,670,000
February 15, 2014                              4,840,000
August 15, 2014                                5,015,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                     0.90
    more than 18 years
Page  13
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                                Procurement
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
    (c)   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A. hereof, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
          final contracts
1.   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  To assist the Borrower, as needed, in the carrying out of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
Page  14
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
