Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 11838
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1178-IN)
APRIL 30, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Name of Currency: Rupee (Rs.)
Rate of Exchange:
Appraisal Year (1981)                  US$1.0 = Rs.8.0
Intervening Years (1982/83-1989/9()    US$1.0 = Rs.12.6
Completion Year (1990/91)              US$ 1.0 = Rs. 18.0
Fiscal Year of Borrower:        April 1 - March 31
Weights and Measures:                  Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ERR                -            Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP             -            Food and Agiiculture Organization of the
United Nations Cooperative Program
FRR                -            Financial Rate of Return
FWE                -            Fuelwood Equivalent
GOI                -            Government of India
GOWB               -            Government of West Bengal
NGOs               -            Non-Govemmental Organizations
PCR                -            Project Completion Report
SFW                -            Social Forestiy Wing
VFPCs              -            Village Forest Protection Committees



FOR Om1CIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on INDIA
West Bengal Social Forestry Project (Credit 1178-IN)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on INDIA - West
Bengal Social Forestry Project (Credit 1178-IN)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with
Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The production impact of this satisfactory project will be significant as the tree-planting
targets set at appraisal were exceeded. However, project components that are directly linked to
forestry or natural resource management activities (e.g., soil conservation, nursery management,
forestry research, silvicultural practice) failed to yield the expected results. Institutional development
was only partial and transfer to community management had hardly begun. Poor performance is not
uncommon in this area, and sustainability appears uncertain.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. The
project may be audited along with other social forestry projects in India.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1 178-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
PREFACE .
EVALUATION SUMMARY .iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECIIVE .1
1. Project Identity.                                                                                           1
2. Introduction.                                                                                               1
3. Background.                                                                                                 2
4. Project Objectives and Description.                                                                         3
5. Project Design and Organization.                                                                            3
6. Implementation.                                                                                             4
7. Project Results .10
8. Project Sustainability .12
9. Project Performance .12
10. Borrower Perforrance .12
1 1. Project Relationship .............................................. 13
12. Consultant Services ........          ...................................... 14
13. Project Documentation .14
PART II PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................ 15
1. Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned ........................ 15
2. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned  ................. 15
3. Comments on Part I .............................................. 19
4. Comments on Part III ............................................. 24
PART m STATISTICAL TABLES
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits ....................................... 25
2. Project Timetable . ............................................... 26
3. Credit Disbursements .          ............................................ 27
4. Project Implementation .         ............................................ 28
5. Project Cost and Financing .......................................... 31
6. Project Results . ................................................ 32
7. Status of Covenants ............................................... 34
8. Mission Data and Staff Inputs .           ........................................ 35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ATFACHMENT 1
1.     Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Strip and Rehabilitated Degraded Forests ....   . 37
2.     Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Rehabilitated Degraded Forests Coppicing ....  38
3.     Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Farm Forestry .... . .......... .  .  .  .  .   . 39
4.     Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Village Woodlots ................ . . . 40
5      Wholesale Price Index and Exchange Rates      .................. . 41
6.     Economic Analysis - West Bengal Social ForestryProject .....  ........... .  .  .   . 42



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (Credit 1178-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the West Bengal Social Forestiy Project
(Cr. No. 1178-IN) for which a credit in the amount of SDR 25.8 million (US$ 29.0 million) was
approved on October 6, 1981. The Credit was closed on Marclh 31, 1991, three years behind
schedule. The final disbursement from the credit was made in July 1991 and the undisbursed
balance of SDR 0.17 million was cancelled.
Parts I and III of this report were prepared by an FAO/CP project completion mission which
visited India in June/July 1991 (Preface, Evaluationi Summary, Parts I and III). Part II was
prepared by the Government of West Bengal.
The preparation of this PCR was based inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report, the legal
documents, supervision reports, corresponidence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal
Bank memoranda, and discussions with Bank project staff in the New Delhi Office.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (Cr. I1 78-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.  The project's primary objective was to increase supplies of fuelwood to ruLal areas through
the establishment of about 93,000 ha of plantations in all the 16 distr icts O1 the State. Secondary
objectives were to provide poles, bamboo, small timber, fodder grass, fruits, oilseeds and other
minor products for the irLral population. Other objectives included financial and staff support for
forestry support services such as research, exteinsion, publicity, training, and monitoring and
evaluation, and construction of smokeless stoves (paras. 7 and 8).
Implementation Expeiience
2.   Due to significant unutilized balance at the end of the original closing date in March 1987,
adjustments were made duiing closing date extensions between 1987/88 and 199I/91 to allow for
expansion of the plantation programs, completion of construction of infrastructure, procurement
of vehicles and equipment, and strengthening of the forestry support component. More attention
was also given to institutionalizing people's participationi through the Village Forest Protection
Committees (para. 14). Overall physical planting targets were exceeded. Technical peiformance
and survival rates of all plantations were satisfactory, but could benefit fiom some improvement.
Nursery operation remains poor due to low seedling quality and nursery techniques. Construction
of staff quarters and vehicle and equipment procurement were below required levels. Teriitorial
Division staff was more involved in participatory forestiy than staff from the Social Forestly Wing
(SFW), as had been intended. Forest extension workers' and motivators' work was hampered due
to lack of training, and linkage with the Agricultural Department's Training and Visit network was
not established. Progress on research was unsatisfactory and appropriate silvicultural and
management systems under the new forestiy environiment were not completed. (paras. 15-18).
3.   Under the farm forestry componenit, about 40% of farmers and 60% of total planting area
under the project benefitted from the different seedling distribution schemes which provided cash
incentives to farmers. The cash incentive was changed during the project period to incentives in-
kind under which crops seeds and fertilizers were provided. However, seedling production
remains a government subsidized undertaking and low survival rates are driving costs up and
benefits down (paras. 21 and 22). The group farm forestry introduced by the SFW in 1985,
whereby private and state-owned wastelands were leased to landless farm laborers for 99 years,
proved to be socially and economically justified in terms of generating employment and incomes,
and increasing supplies of forest produce to the rural poor. However, this component, as well as
the other plantation components, suffered from lack of management plans for silvicultural
treatments, stock information for estimation of wood supply and stumpage valuation, and
marketing information (para. 23).
4.   The concept of people's participation in forestry planning, protection and management was
improved through the introduction of the Village Forestry Protection Committees (VFPCs).
Government's recognition of these VFPCs and its introduction of benefit-sharing, whereby 25%
of benefits under the project would go to the local population, provided an incentive for the rapid
growth of the numbers of VFPCs. However, no major harvest has as yet been carried out and



iv
most village panchayats have not yet designiated villagers' responisihility lor planitation protection
and benefit distribution (paras. 34-36).
5.   Some 10,200 improved smokeless stoves, just ovei. the appraisal target, were installed.
However, there was not much evidence of the positive demonstration effect of this component. It
was decided at the project level that other departments and NGOs were more appropriately
equipped to implement this activity. As a result, no follow-up was unidertakeni, and little attention
was given to management and maintenance (para. 37).
Project Results
6.   Overall, the project achieved its main objectives. Plantations were established in seven
divisions, sixteen distiicts and thlee agro-climatic zones. The project created skilled manpower in
social forestry development, improved forest cover age in the State, stimulated people's awareness
of the economic and ecological importance of trees, lielped reduce fuLrther damage to the already
degraded environment, and generated employment in rural areas. It also fostered forestry staffs
awareness of the value of people's participationi in sustainiable lorestry activities (paras. 38 and 41,
42).
7.   Production of fuelwood, poles, timber and fodder exceeded appraisal estimates (Table 6).
Financial rates of return for all the plantation models raniged hetween 20% to 30% (Attachment 1,
Tables 1-4). Re-estimated economic rate of returnl (ERR) is 24%7c, 3.5% lower than the appraisal
estimate of 27.5%. The lower ERR is due to tlle lower Surivival riates and yields, delayed benefits,
and cost overrun (para. 40).
Proiect Sustainability
8.    Plantation benefits are likely to be maintained. People's awareness of the importance of
forests is likely to help reduce ecological degradation. The positive relationship fostered by the
project between the rural community and forestry personnel will help sustainahility. SFW had
demonstrated its capability to implement large plantation programs. There is considerable scope to
improve the benefits from the project. To attain this, forestiy support services in the areas of
research and extension should be improved. Forest managemenit plans should be completed and
intensive training in forest management and protectioni should be provided to village panchayats
and VFPCs. The recently approved West Bengal Forestry Project (Credit 2341-IN), which had
taken into account lessons learned from past lorestry intervenitions, would be an added boost to
the sustainability of gains earnled from the project.
Findings and Lessons Leamned
9.   Through the project, the Bank made significant contributions to the physical, institutional,
economic and social development of the forestry sector. The experience suggests a number of
lessons leamned. During implementation more recognitioni should have been given to the technical
aspects of the plantation program; adequate attention should have been paid to forestry
management, planning, and community involvement, coupled with intensive training of village
panchayats and VFPCs in plantation managemenit and protectioni; cost-benefit sharing should have
been worked out in advance; the plantation components should have been narrowed down to just a
few for more effective implementation; and the henelits gained from cash incentives and free
seedling distribution should have been weighed more carefully against the costs of such programs.
Lessons learned from this project had been taken into account in the formulation of the recently
approved West Bengal Forestry Project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1178-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name           :          West Bengal Social Forestry Project
Credit No.             :          1178-IN
RVP Unit               :          South Asia Region
Countiy                :          India
Sector                 :          AgiicLulture
Sub-Sector             :          ForesLiry
Introduction
1.        Forestry in India. The pressure on the India's forest resources has been critical, and
the concept of social forestiy was instrumental in changing past trends. Population growth and the
corresponding demand for fuelwood and food, the increasingly excessive numbers of cattle in non-
agricultural lands, and the continuous conflicts over property rights were identified as the most
significant factors leading to the rapid depletion of forest resou.ces. As in neighboring countries,
India has been facing an environmental crisis where the rates of soil erosion and sedimentation
were increasing, and the risks from floods and otlhe climatic changes were clearly visible. The
environmental crisis was compounded by a higlh demand lor fue]lwood by rut-al and urban
households, and encroachment of the landless into the lorest lor subsistence needs. In areas
where forest resources were already depleted, the envii-onmental and fuClwood crisis was directly
linked to farmers' use of cow dung, agricultulal residues and waste, which were all being used as
fuel rather than as organic fertilizer, causing significant changes in land productivity and food
supplies.
2.        Forest Policy. The National Forest Policy of 1952 envisaged that balance and
complementarity in land use were importanit, and claims of communities living in and around
forests should avoid conflict with these obJectives. The policy also recognized the need for
establishing tree plantinig programs that involved local people's participation, not only to sustain
the supply of timher, buLt also to promiiote the required supplies olf uielwood and fodder. Trees
were raised in farm lands, village an(d community wastelands, and natuLal forest areas. In
accordance with the national forest policy, the managemenit and ulilizationi of village forests or fuel
forests was to be ellllusted to village panclhayats.
3.        The 1988 National Forest Policy became an extension ol tlhe previous policy and aims
to ensure environmental stability, ecological balance, efficient utilizationi of forest produce, and to
meet the fuelwood, fodder, forest produce and small timber needs of the rural and tribal
populations. The stated national goal is to have a minimum of one-third olf the total land area of the
country under forest cover. The policy also e nvisages that all village and community lands not



2
required for other productive purposes should be brought under tree crops and fodder cultivation.
The policy outlines ownership rights over trees for individuals, particularly the weaker sections of
the community.
4.        The Bank's Role in Social Forestry. The Bank's first intervention in the forestry
sector, the Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 609-IN, December 1975),
was directed primarily towards the development of plantations for the pulp and paper industry.
Since then, the main thrust of the Bank's operations in this sector has been on social forestry
development, with five projects covering nine states. Each of these projects had the objectives of
increasing the supply of fuelwood and providing poles, small timber, fodder and other minor
forest products to those living in rural areas, with special focus on increasing employment and
fuelwood supplies for landless farm laborers, and marginal and small farmers, production of
wood products from government and village wastelands and strengthening the social forestry
organization within the State Forestry Departments to carry out the plantation activities. The first
two social forestry projects were in Uttar Pradesh (Cr. 925-IN) and Gujarat (Cr. 961-IN) which
started in 1979 and 1980, respectively, and were closed five years later. The West Bengal (Cr.
1178-IN) and Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana (Cr. 1286-IN) Social Forestry Projects were the
third and fourth projects in the sector which started in March and December 1982, respectively.
After a three-year delay in execution, both Credits were closed in March 1991. On-going social
forestry projects are: Karnataka (Cr. 1432-IN), Kerala (Cr. 1514-IN) and the National Social
Forestry Project (Cr. 1611-IN) covering the states of Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and follow-up
activities in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat.
Background
5.        The State of West Bengal, with an area of 88,752 km2, has a population of about 68
million in 1991, of which 75% reside in rural areas spread over nearly 42,000 villages. Scheduled
castes and tribes account for nearly 30% of the total population. Up to the end of the 1960s, the
State had the highest level of industrial development, but it lost this position in the 1970s. The
State, nevertheless, still has the second largest industrial base in India. Despite this industrial
concentration, agriculture plays a predominant role in the State's economy, accounting for 35% of
the total State's income and 60% of its total employment. Farms in general are small with 80% of
all holdings being less than 2 ha. The total forest area of the State is 1.18 M ha, or 13.5% of the
total geographical area. In addition, about 0.9 M ha, or 70% of the State's 1.3 M ha of waste and
eroded agricultural lands, is estimated to be suitable for afforestation. However, seven of the
State's 16 districts have less than 1% of forest area. In the traditionally forest rich districts, the
distribution is very skewed and large tracts are now devoid of any natural vegetation. Productivity
of more than half the forest estate is low, either because of aridity and low soil fertility or because
of past degradation through illegal felling, overgrazing and burning.
6.        The contribution of the forestry sector to the State's income in 1988 was less than 1%
(Rs. 118 million). The annual wood production extracted from the State forests was 152,000 m3 of
timber and 277,000 m3 of fuelwood. This, however, does not include fuelwood, small timber and
a wide variety of other minor forest products such as gums, dried leaves, edible flowers, fruits and
oilseeds collected by villagers, as well as illicit felling. Total annual energy consumption of the
State in 1979 was estimated at about 10 million tons of fuelwood equivalent (FWE) based on the
0.28 m3 fuelwood per capita (0.2 tons FWE). The annual production of fuelwood from the State
forests was about one million tons including illegal removals. West Bengal has a relatively good
supply of commercial energy (coal, electricity, oil) and this accounted for about 20% (two million
tons FWE) of total demand. The remaining eight million tons FWE (80%) were non-commercial
energy comprising of 44% fuelwood, 16% crop wastes and 20% dung cake.



3
Project Objectives and Description
7.        Project Objectives. The project's primary objective was to increase supplies of
fuelwood to rural areas through the establishment of 93,000 ha of plantations in all the 16 districts
of the State. Secondary objectives were to provide poles, bamboo, small timber, fodder grass,
fruits, oilseeds and other minor products. To carry out this program, the project provided for
training facilities, vehicles, housing, equipment and additional staff for research and extension
activities. Moreover, the project was to introduce improved stoves as a fuelwood conservation
measure.
8.        Prject Descripion. During a six-year period the project was to: (i) establish 6,000 ha
of village woodlots; (ii) rehabilitate and reforest 15,000 ha of degraded forests; (iii) establish
20,000 ha of strip plantings along roads, canals and railroads; (iv) establish 52,000 ha of farm
forestry on private lands; (v) develop nurseries to provide planting stocks; (vi) construct a Forest
Guard School; (vii) expand the existing West Bengal Forest School; (viii) provide forestry staff at
the operational and extension levels financial and staff support for publicity, research, training,
improvement of stove technology and monitoring activities; (ix) strengthen research activities, and
construct seed storage godowns; (x) develop training of project staff including provision of
fellowships; and, (xi) construct about 10,000 smokeless stoves. Prime responsibility for
implementation was to be with the Social Forestry Wing (SFW) of the Forestry Department. Total
project cost was estimated at US$43.5 million (Rs.348.7 million), of which US$2.3 million was
in foreign exchange costs. The IDA Credit of SDR25.8 million (US$29 million) was to finance
100% of the foreign exchange costs and 65% of the local costs, or 67% of the total project costs;
33% was to be financed by the Government of India (GOI) and the State Government of West
Bengal (GOWB).
Pject Design and Organization
9.        Prject Design. In view of the environmental degradation and scarce natural forest
resource, the project was designed to provide forest products for basic human needs, generate
employment in rural areas, and preserve the environment. The project concept was well founded
and consistent with the national forest policy of promoting tree plantings through private and
community participation. It also aimed to transfer responsibilities for plantation management,
protection and utilization to local communities through the panchayat system.
10.       The project was formulated by the Forestry Department in 1980 and appraised by the
Bank in early 1981. The design of the project was developed from experiences gained in
implementing social forestry programs within the State since 1975 and from the other States (Uttar
Pradesh and Gujarat), particularly their experience with institutional plantation and various levels
of community participation and financing. The project emphasized target groups as major
beneficiaries and the transfer of responsibility for management of village woodlots and strip
plantations to village panchayats after recovery by government of direct plantation costs. The
project also provided for the strengthening of forestry supportive activities such as: nursery,
research, public relations, monitoring and evaluation, training and fellowships, including
expansion of the West Bengal Forest School, and technical assistance.
11.       Problems and risks foreseen at appraisal were: (a) inadequate State funding of the
program; (b) wasteful free seedling distribution necessitating close field monitoring of survival
rate; (c) lack of leadership and interest in the village panchayats, and socio-economic inequalities
among villagers leading to low community participation; (d) inadequately organized village



4
panchayats resulting in their inability to take responsibility for plantation management, protection
and utilization; and (e) low adoption rate of improved stoves due to differences in socio-economic
and climatic conditions. However, later in the project, active village institutions with strong
community spirit emerged. The project was reformulated to strengthen beneficiary participation,
particularly in the expanded degraded forest areas, in forestry management and protection.
12.       Organization. Overall, the proposed organizational structure was satisfactory. There
were, however, a few deficiencies: (a) although the research program was identified, research
methodology was not prescribed resulting in poor performance; b) the project focused mainly on
plantation establishment and not enough attention was paid to technical aspects of plantation
management; (c) growth performance of strip and block plantations was the responsibility of the
research unit; however, it was not clear who was responsible for preparation of stand-and-stock
information, forest management planning, and harvesting.
13.       Despite the emphasis on target groups and community responsibilities for plantation
management and protection of village woodlots, the project failed to prescribe the mechanism for
distribution of benefits. This has undermined people's and village panchayats' participation due to
lack of assurance on the share of the expected benefits resulting in serious delays and difficulties in
the implementation and the termination in 1988 of the village woodlot component.
Implementafion
14.       Chanzes in Proiect Design. Due to the significant unutilized balance at the end of the
original project closing date in March 1987, several adjustments were made during the extensions
of closing date between 1987/88 and 1990/91. During these extensions the project was
restructured to allow for expansion of the plantation program, complete and construct
infrastructure, procure more vehicles and equipment, and strengthen the forestry support
components. With the exception of the village woodlot component, planting targets were increased
from 93,000 ha to 210,000 ha as follows: strip plantation, from 20,000 ha to 23,000 ha;
rehabilitation of degraded forests, from 15,000 ha to 70,000 ha, including mainly the sal coppice
management; and farm forestry, from 52,000 ha to 111,100 ha. A number of experiments on
agro-forestry were carried out, and the village micro-planning, to involve people's participation in
project planning, was extensively used. More attention was also given to institutionalize the
Village Forest Protection Committee (VFPC) for the protection, management and utilization of strip
plantations and rehabilitated degraded forests.
15.       General. Despite budget restrictions, serious shortage of staff, and problems of
mobility, the project exceeded the overall physical targets set at appraisal. Total plantations of
about 242,000 ha, including 150,000 ha of farm forestry, were achieved, or 260% of the appraisal
target. Except for the strip plantation and farm forestry components during the earlier years, the
technical performance and survival rates of all plantations were satisfactory. The 1991 project
evaluation indicated satisfactory survival rates for the strip plantation and farm forestry
components. The village woodlots component was terminated in 1988 and responsibility for
plantations in rehabilitated degraded forests was transferred to the territorial divisions of the
Forestry Department. The SFW concentrated its work on the strip plantations, farm forestry, the
organization of VFPCs for management of sal coppice, and the handing over of strip plantations to
village panchayats.
16.       Notwithstanding the substantial physical achievement, the project fell short in several
areas. Construction of staff quarters and vehicle and equipment procurement were substantially
below the required level. Although about 50% of SFW staff positions remain unfilled there was



5
more involvement by the Territorial Division staff in participatory forestry than SFW incremental
staff. Progress on research was unsatisfactory and little is known about the appropriate silvicultural
and management systems under the new environment. Forest extension workers and part-time
motivators were hired but their work was hampered due to lack of adequate training. Community
participation in initial periods of project implementation was limited which later improved with the
introduction of the village micro-planning and SFW's handing over of established plantations to
village panchayats and rehabilitated degraded forests coppice to VFPCs for protection,
management, and utilization. In 1988 a manual on village micro-planning and plantation and
extension technology was introduced.
17.      Nursery. SFW established one permanent nursery in one administrative block and a
number of subsidiary and temporary nurseries at village levels. In addition, during implementation
kissan nurseries were also established at selected villages by farmers with assistance from SFW.
Under this scheme, farmers were provided with technical advice, seeds, bags and fertilizers, and a
subsidy of Rs.0.30 per seedling. Seedlings produced were distributed free of charge to poor
farmers selected by village panchayats and sold to other farmers. A total of 360 million seedlings
were produced, of which about 15% were produced by kissan nurseries. Overall, the nursery
operation was and still remains poor due to low seedling quality and nursery techniques.
18.      Plantations. Four plantation components with twelve plantation models were to be
established with different levels of community participation and financing. A total of 241,754 ha
of plantations was established, or 260% of the appraisal target of 93,000 ha. The details of each
component are presented below.
19.      Village Woodlots: A total of 6,000 ha of plantations was to be established with three
different levels of community participation and financing: 2,500 ha were to be established under
the demonstration scheme; 1,750 ha each under the loan and the supervised scheme. Under the
demonstration scheme, SFW was to establish one ha of plantation in each village panchayat and
cover all the establishment and maintenance costs excluding the cost of seedlings, and village
panchayats were to protect and manage the plantation for two years. If village panchayats
successfully protected the plantations, they could opt for either a loan or supervised scheme. Under
the loan scheme, SFW was to provide an interest-free loan to village panchayats to cover the costs
of planting, maintenance and protection, and recover the loan from sales of harvestable produce,
while under the supervised scheme SFW was to establish, maintain and protect the plantations and
recover these costs after the sales of harvestable produce. A total of 2,405 ha of plantations and
only the demonstration scheme was established, or 60% below the appraisal target. The shortfall
was due mainly to the non-availability of panchayat wastelands, lack of local leadership and
interest, and the financial capability in the village panchayats. Spacings ranged from 2m x 2m to
2m x 2.5m using Eucalyptus as the main species. The survival rate was good at 80%. Since 1989,
the soil and water conservation techniques, such as V-ditch with Vetiveria and V-ditch with vitex
were also carried out in about 40% of the total plantations established in SFW's southern circle.
20.       Strip Plantations: SFW was to establish, protect and maintain 20,000 ha of plantations
along roads, canals and railways. Villagers who reside adjacent to strip plantations were to be
allowed to collect grass, fodder, fallen wood and other minor produce free of charge, and 25% of
harvestable produce in exchange for their cooperation in the protection of the plantations. SFW
established a total of 23,784 ha of plantations, or 119% of the appraisal target. Survival rate was
low at about 53% during the initial years but rose substantially to about 74% in 1990. Cassia spp.
and Leucaena leucocephala with spacing of 2m x 2m were planted in strips. Although the
plantations were mature for felling, no major harvest was done as they were perceived to be
managed not only for production but also for environmental preservation and aesthetics. The



6
Forestry Department was also reluctant to do any felling as they were concerned that such actions
would be interpreted as a signal to fell strip plantations freely. There is a need to finalize a
management plan which prescribes the cutting intensity to maintain the desired stocking. SFW
should also increase species diversity to achieve the above objectives.
21.       Farm Forestry. About 78 million seedlings were to be distributed to farmers for tree
planting in 52,000 ha of private wastelands and Government's wastelands leased to landless farm
laborers. Three different schemes of the distribution of seedlings were to be carried out: (a)
distribution of free seedlings with cash incentive to poor farmers up to the limit of 750 seedlings
per family. A cash payment of Rs.0.40 per seedling was to be paid to farmer in three yearly
installments for trees that have survived; (b) distribution of free seedlings with cash incentive to
landless farm laborers who were to be allotted with a small parcel of state-owned wastelands for
99-year lease -- a real innovation under the project; and (c) distribution of free seedlings to
farmers other than those specified in (a) and (b). A total of 266.5 million seedlings were
distributed to about 460,000 farmers for planting on about 150,554 ha, or nearly triple the
appraisal target. Of the total farmers who had benefitted, more than two-thirds were landless farm
laborers, and marginal and small farmers. About 40% of total farmers and 60% of total planting
areas benefitted under this scheme.
22.       The cash incentive was recently changed to incentives in-kind under which crop seeds
and fertilizers were provided to farmers. In June 1988, GOWB issued an Order for seedling
pricing at Rs. 0.20 per seedling up to a limit of 750 seedlings, and at Rs.0.45 per seedling
beyond the limit to the lesser disadvantaged farmers. However, before the Order was issued,
about 40% of seedlings were already distributed free of charge to farmers. This created confusion
among farmers as the uniform policy was not followed from the beginning of the season. GOWB
recognized this problem and subsequently abolished the Order. Since then SFW had adopted the
policy of free seedling distribution at the limit of 750 to poor farmers and for sale to other farmers
at Rs.0.65 per seedling. Seedling production is largely a government subsidized undertaking and
low survival rates are driving the costs up and benefits down. Farm forestry accounted for 60% of
all plantations in the project and were mostly planted in the laterite districts of Midnapore, Bankura,
Purulia, Burdwan and Birbhum where fuelwood and small timber species such as Eucalyptus
Tereticornis and Akashmoni (Acacia auriculifonnis), were planted forming pure stands. Spacing
ranged from Im x Im to 2m x 2m where plantation's performance was better with wider spacing.
The survival rate was low, about 46%, due to inadequate maintenance and protection resulting
from inadequate technical advice from SFW.
23.      In 1985, group farm forestry was introduced by the SFW for tree plantings on both
private wastelands and state-owned wastelands leased to landless farm laborers for 99 years. SFW
organized a group of farmers who had private wastelands or leased wastelands in contiguous
stretch for tree planting. Plantings attained survival rates between 85% and 90%. These lands
were idle for decades and SFW was able to demonstrate the profitability of tree plantations. Cash
crops consisting of pigeon peas (Cajanus cajan), squash (Cucuberta maxima) and others were
planted in between trees with spacing of 4m by 1.5m. Group farm forestry proved to be socially
and economically justified in terns of generating employment and incomes as well as increasing
supplies of forest produce to the rural poor. Wood products have been extracted from these
plantations in considerable quantity. However, in spite of the increased demand for poles and
small timbers no harvesting were done. There was no management plan on cutting volume,
timing, and location, so that felling of poles and similar products were based on estimates rather
than on silvicultural measures. Management plans for all the plantations are required for
scheduling silvicultural treatments and regeneration for succeeding cycles, stock information for
the estimation of future wood supply and stumpage valuation. Some stand tables that were



7
prepared were hardly used for forecast estimation and there was a lack of marketing information as
a whole.
24.       Rehabilitation and Reforestation of Degraded Forest: A total of 15,000 ha of degraded
forest reserves was to be carried out either by coppicing the existing sal stumps or by replanting of
gaps with fuelwood and other species. Casual laborers were to be employed by SFW to establish
and maintain the plantations. Local villagers were to be allowed to collect 25% of the produce free
of cost. The collection of free fodder and fuelwood was to be organized by SFW. Planting
activities included replanting of gaps in the completely degraded forests using mainly Eucalyptus
Tereticomis and coppicing of sal stumps. A total of 11,926 ha of plantations were established with
a survival rate of 72%, and 53,085 ha of sal were being managed through coppicing. The
achievement was more than quadruple the appraisal target. About 40% of plantations were carried
out with soil and water conservation measures. Improvement cuttings in sal coppice stands were
undertaken. An average of 500 coppices per ha was being maintained for the production of
fuelwood, pulpwood and poles.
25.       Recommendations for Replanting in Sal Degraded Forest: Enrichment planting of
species compatible with and promotive of the growth of Shorea robusta should be considered and
the use of Eucalyptus should be minimized.  Several species belonging to the families of
Leguminos. Sapindaceae. Moraceae. Anonace. Rubiaceae. Meliaceae. Sapotaceae. Cumbretaceae.
Arallacea, Ulmacea. and Simarubaceae are associated with the Dipterocarpaceae forests.
Investigating the right species mixture to promote the development of sal is important.
26.       Coppicing. Although the improvement cuttings in sal stumps provided substantial
fuelwood, pulpwood and poles in the relative short rotational period, the current coppicing system
is more of an extractive activity. In order to sustain better regeneration growth of sal stumps,
coppicing should be done as a forest stand improvement measure.
27.       Forestrv Education. Expansion of the existing West Bengal Forest School was to be
undertaken by constructing a hostel for an additional 40 students and quarters for teaching staff.
Project funds were also provided for the construction of a Forest Guard School with capacity for
60 students and for equipment and running costs for four years. Construction targets were
substantially achieved. Although it was expected that 360 Forest Extension Workers and 1,000
motivators were to be trained at the existing divisional training centers, no data were available to
indicate the numbers actually trained.  Of 360 forest extension workers targeted for recruitment
during the project period, only 140 were recruited. Motivators were recruited in earlier years and
by 1986 200 were in place. At the end of 1986 only 22 forest extension workers received training
for eight weeks at the Jhargram Training Center, while Motivators were given only a two-day
training on extension at the divisional training centers. The quality of training during earlier years
suffered due to lack of adequate instructors and teaching materials. Moreover, no consultant was
employed as proposed.
28.       Training considerably improved after the syllabus for 8-week training course for forest
extension workers was finalized in 1987-88. Thereafter, 138 forest extension workers were
trained and 51 more attended a 5-day refresher course. The syllabus for training forest extension
workers covered elementary monitoring and evaluation techniques and included a section on
extension and communication.The revised syllabus for foresters at the Forest School covered the
same topics as those for forest extension workers. The one-year training course for foresters
included 50% of field work. The six-month training course for forest guards devoted 60% to
practical applications and 40% to classroom lectures. There was also a three-month course for
forest guards whose educational levels were below Class 8, consisting of 50% practical application



8
and 50% classroom lectures, including fifteen hours of social forestry and extension, and thirty
hours of field practice. The training courses were generally satisfactory in providing knowledge
and skills needed for social forestry. This was facilitated by hiring professional staff for the forest
schools. However, inspite of these improvements, the training benefits were constrained by the
low recruitment of forest extension workers and motivators responsible for delivering the forestry
extension message to the local communities. This was exacerbated by the absence of linkage
between the Forestry Department and the Agriculture Department's Training and Visit Network.
29.       Local/Overseas Fellowships and Training. The project was to provide funds for 14
eight-week overseas fellowships for senior staff in management and forestry extension. A total of
24 staff were sent overseas for 10-12 weeks duration, and most of them attended the course on
social and community forestry held at the Forestry Institute in the United Kingdom. All except two
staff who benefitted from the course were of Divisional Forestry Officer rank. The fellowships
were used not only for senior officers of SFW but also for some staff of the Forestry Department
in wildlife and forest corporation who might be transferred into SFW. One instructor from the
Forest School was sent on a study tour to the Philippines. In addition, one trainer was sent on an
overseas training course in 1985.
30.       Research. Under the project, funds were provided for strengthening of the Research
Unit of the Forestry Department. Due to budgetary constraints and shortage of staff, research
remained weak throughout the project implementation period. At appraisal the following areas of
research were identified: (a) nursery, silvicultural, growth and yields, and socio-economic
studies; (b) seed storage (handling and germination); (c) intercropping, species introduction and
provenance trials; and (d) studies on minor forest products. Only the intercropping studies had
been carried out. Few silvicultural and nursery studies were undertaken and some growth
measurements were conducted. All the others were still in the planning stages.
31.       Extension and Publicity. The Publicity and Extension Unit was to be established in
Calcutta under a Chief Publicity Officer. Each of the nine divisions was to have a Divisional
Publicity Officer to coordinate all the public relation activities. The Publicity and Extension Unit
was more involved in publicity rather than extension or teaching materials. The materials were
used for training forest extension workers, motivators, leaders of panchayats, and farmers. The
Unit conducted 21 seminars/workshops covering 1,825 participants, 56 exhibitions reaching about
150,000 people and 1,036 cinemas/slide shows reaching about 100,000 people. Many of the
activities of the unit were centered on schools and colleges. Little attention to training in the earlier
years of project implementation meant that motivators and forest extension workers had a poor
understanding of their roles and had inadequate communication skills. In order to strengthen the
extension services, considering the shortage of forest extension workers and motivators in SFW,
the Bank recommended that GOWB establish a linkage with the Agricultural Department's Training
and Visit network. However, no effective linkage was established.
32.       Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. Funds were to be provided for establishing a
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit headed by a forester and supported by statisticians and
enumerators, to monitor and assess villagers' acceptance of social forestry activities, plantation
survival rates, and undertake a mid-term evaluation of the project. Funds were also to be provided
for a local consultant to assist in survey designing and setting up systems for project monitoring.
Initially, the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit was responsible for non-survey monitoring including
collection of regular field reports and carried out field assessments on the four plantation
components and some special studies. The annual monitoring forms were of high quality. The
forms provided useful information on project achievements, problems encountered and results.
However, since 1987 this monitoring system was discontinued and replaced by the government-



9
prescribed "Operational Guide to the Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Forestry in India". The
annual monitoring forms were revised to conform to the format of the National Wasteland
Development Board. Delays occurred in collecting and processing data due mainly to shortage of
staff. Moreover, the Unit had frequent changes of leadership. It was headed by five persons over
a ten year period. The Unit, however, was fortunate to have a couple of dedicated and competent
staff working throughout the project implementation period who contributed to sustained
monitoring and evaluation activity. The Unit also produced three good evaluation reports using
the methodology prescribed the "Operational Guide".
33.      Studies. Funds were to be provided for socio-economic studies under the research
component (para. 30). At the Bank's suggestion, a wood balance study was also conducted. The
study was carried out in 1984 by the Planning and Statistical Cell of the Forestry Department and
published in 1987. It attempted to develop a profile on energy consumption in the State. An
additional study on the Marketing of Social Forestry Produce in West Bengal was also carried out
in three districts to identify and assess the current marketing mechanism of wood produced from
private plantations. One study on extension and communication systems and two studies on farm
forestry were also financed under the project. The former study assessed the extension and
communication systems, particularly the evaluation of the communication materials, which was
useful and of good quality. However, the valuable suggestions about communication materials
were only partially taken into account in the development of new materials. The latter studies
provided valuable information on participation, distribution of benefits and beneficiaries, and
difficulties encountered.
34.      Participation of Villagers and Community. The SFW  was to establish village
woodlots, strip plantations, and plantations on rehabilitated degraded forests, and manage sal
coppicing, with different levels of community participation and financing (paras. 19-20 and 24).
Community participation in initial periods of project implementation was limited when very little
attention was given to involving the intended beneficiaries in the planning process. To some extent
this was improved through the introduction of the village micro-planning in early 1986 which
involved discussions with representatives of different socio-economic classes so that the plan
reflected their perceptions and needs. It was advanced as a method to promote people's
participation. As of June 1991 a total of 1,139 microplans were prepared. In the rush to get these
plans completed, fuelwood and fodder balances had not been worked out in some of the plans nor
were the plantation activities related to fuel and fodder in the deficit villages. Moreover, the
microplans have neither been translated into the local language nor copies made available to village
panchayats.
35.      In early 1985 the adjoining villages to sal forests in Midnapore, Bankura and Purulia
Districts voluntarily formed informal committees to protect the forests from further damaging
exploitation. The idea of such committees emanated from beat (sub-district) level and range
(block) level foresters stationed in those areas who were faced by organized opposition from forest
smugglers when attempting to protect and manage the sal forest. Further, GOWB issued an Order
in 1989 which allowed 25% of benefits from rehabilitated degraded forests under the Social
Forestry Project to go to local population. This acted as an incentive for the voluntary organization
of the VFPCs. To date some 1,738 VFPCs have been functioning in five districts protecting
nearly 238,000 ha of rehabilitated degraded sal coppice forests and plantations. The State
Government was slow in formally recognizing VFPCs. In 1989 a policy directive was issued
formally recognizing VFPCs; this was modified in 1990. These committees were to be partners of
the Forest Department in managing rehabilitated degraded forests. As of June 1991, a total of 865
VFPCs were registered with about 179,500 members. According to the Order, the Forestry
Department would manage the sal forests through coppicing but VFPCs would bear all the



10
management costs, protect and, in return, be entitled to 25% of the usufruct to rotational thinning
of sal forests. VFPCs would distribute benefits free of cost to the economically disadvantaged
sections of the community to satisfy their subsistence needs and the balance would be sold at
nominal prices to other villagers. Many VFPCs have undertaken the rotational thinning of sal
forests and benefits were distributed free of cost to poor farmers and sold at Rs.26 per cartload to
other villagers. The system worked well and no major problems were encountered.
36.       Since most of village woodlot plantations were established on private lands, there
would be no distribution of benefits to the community. Under the strip plantations, there was no
clear policy for the distribution of benefits until GOWB issued an Order in 1986 to hand over the
three year old plantations to village panchayats for protection, management and utilization.
According to the Order, 25% of the sale revenues after deducting SFW's direct plantation and
maintenance costs, would be distributed by village panchayats free of cost or sold to villagers.
GOI issued orders to other states to follow GOWB's example in this regard. Although about
9,500 ha of plantation (about 40% of the total strip plantations) were already handed over to village
panchayats and most plantations were mature, no major harvest has so far been carried out.
Moreover, most village panchayats have not yet designated villager beneficiaries with the
responsibility for plantation protection, and for distribution of benefits.
37.      Improved Stoves. With the objective of conserving energy, the project provided
funds for the construction and installation of 10,000 improved smokeless stoves in a
demonstration scheme. Provision was also made for a Stove Unit with a Unit Chief and six
promoters, as well as a local consultant. Neither the stove unit was established nor a consultant
employed, but construction and installation of improved stoves began in 1985 by SFW. Some
motivators were recruited and training was provided to them as well as to SFW staff on stove
construction by the Relief and Welfare Department. A total of 10,200 stoves were distributed and
installed, about five stoves in each village. The village panchayats were involved in the selection of
people for the installation of stoves, and in some cases undertook recruitment at schools and health
stations. The result of the stove component was, however, uneven. There was no follow-up and
little attention was given to management and maintenance. There was not much evidence on the
positive demonstration effect. Due to risk of fire the stoves were not suitable for the poor villagers
living under thatched roof. After the achievement of the target, SFW did not have any follow-up
activity stating that other departments and non-government agencies (NGOs) are more
appropriately equipped to implement this activity.
Project Results
38.       Overall, the project achieved its main objectives. SFW has successfully implemented
the plantation programs in seven divisions and sixteen districts. Plantations were established in
three different agro-climatic zones: one percent in the coastal zone, 24% in the alluvial zone and
75% in the laterite zone. The project created skilled manpower in social forestry development,
improved the coverage of forests in the State, stimulated people's awareness of the economic and
ecological importance of trees, and generated substantial employment in the rural areas. Many
forestry officials became people-oriented and developed the skill of involving people in forestry
activities. Changes in the attitude of people is the basic and important starting point for the increase
in forest production, environmental rehabilitation and protection. About 25 million man-days of
employment were generated during the project implementation period compared with the appraisal
estimate of 15 million man-days. Most of the people benefitting from employment were landless
farm laborers, scheduled castes and tribes. About 3,215 villages were involved in SFW's
plantations, 865 registered VFPCs with about 180,000 members in the rehabilitated degraded sal
coppice forests and 460,000 farmers in farm forestry.



11
39.       In terms of production, despite the overall low survival rates, growth and yields due to
poor technology, the expected forest produce resulting from the substantial increases in the
planting areas by 260%, is estimated to be significantly higher than the appraisal estimate. There
would be about 10.6 million tons of fuelwood, 120,000 m3 of timber, 15.7 million tons of fodder
and 15.9 million tons of poles and pulpwood. At appraisal, these were estimated to be 6.8 million
tons of fuelwood, 3.9 million m3 of timber, 2.7 million tons of fodder, 1.8 million tons of fruits,
1,900 tons of Eucalyptus oil, 231 million pieces of poles and 233 million pieces of bamboo. The
overall survival rate of 54% was low. The survival rates of the individual plantation were: 80%
for village woodlots; 53% for strip plantations; 46% for farm forestry; and 72% for rehabilitated
degraded forest plantations. The estimated annual production at harvest are 2.2 t/ha for poles, 1.5
t/ha for fuelwood, 1.7 m3/ha for small timber, and 2.2 t/ha for fodder which are about 50%-80%
lower than the appraisal estimates of 70-150 pieces for poles/ha, 3-10 t/ha for fuelwood and
timber, 150 pieces/ha for bamboo, 3-5 m3/ha for timber, 1-2 t/ha for fodder, and 1-2 t/ha for
fruits. There was no production of bamboo due to non-availability of seedlings, while fruit
production would be insignificant. To date, the most common benefits accruing to farmers from
strip plantations, village woodlots, farm forestry and rehabilitated degraded forests are fodder and
grass, fuelwood, poles and pulpwood. Farners engaged in farm forestry plantations have already
harvested and sold poles and pulpwood.
40.       The financial and economic analysis were undertaken in 1990 constant prices. The
financial cost and benefit streams are presented in Attachment 1, Tables 1-4. Survival rates and
yields of plantations are based on some actual harvests and estimates of SFW. The establishment
and maintenance costs are based on SFW's actual costs incurred in 1990. The financial value of
forest products were calculated using the average financial stumpage prices prevailing in the project
areas. The results of financial analyses calculated over a period of 25 years, show the estimated
financial rates of return (FRR) of 23.5% for the farm forestry, 20% for the strip and rehabilitated
degraded forest plantations, 30% for rehabilitated degraded coppice forest plantations and 26.5%
for village woodlots. FRR of all plantation models are favorable. The economic re-evaluation was
carried out over a period of 30 years. All project costs incurred during project implementation were
included in the analysis and adjusted to 1990 constant prices by using the wholesale price index as
shown in Attachment 1, Table 5. Local costs and unskilled labor were further converted into
border price by applying the Standard Conversion Factor of 0.80 and Specific Conversion Factor
of 0.60 respectively. Recurrent costs after project completion, excluding fellowships and
Monitoring and Evaluation and studies, have been assumed at 25% of its 1990 actual costs. The
economic benefits of forest produce were valued at the financial stumpage prices adjusted by the
Standard Conversion Factor of 0.80. The benefits from the improved stoves were excluded. The
economic cost and benefit streams of the project are presented in Attachment 1, Table 6. The result
of the analysis show a re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of 24%, which is 4% lower than
the appraisal estimate of 28%. The lower ERR is due to the lower survival rates and yields,
delayed benefits, and cost overrun.
41.       Impact. The project has generated significant positive impact. SFW has developed
sufficient skilled manpower for the social forestry development program and achieved the project
objectives of increasing employment and forest production in the rural areas, as well as public
awareness of the economic and ecological importance of trees. Increased forest production and
employment generation helped in reducing further damage to the already degraded environment.
Community participation in planning, management and benefit-sharing has considerably increased.
Established plantations and management of sal coppice were handed over to village panchayats and
VFPCs respectively for protection, management and utilization, which resulted in the creation of
joint management and protection of common property. Distribution of seedlings under the farm



12
forestry component also benefitted a large number of landless farm laborers, and marginal and
small farmers.
42.       The project had a positive environmental impact. Plantations in the laterite and
degraded forest areas helped to improve water conservation, micro-climatic stabilization, and soil
fertility restoration. Protection of plantations from grazing and browsing, the cut-and-carry
method of fodder, and grass harvest and use, helped to improve the soil and increase water
infiltration. Strip plantations also helped in controlling gulley erosion. However, the monoculture
of plantations using Eucalyptus and Acacia as pure stands on private and public wastelands and
degraded forest areas resulted in removal of vegetative material which caused depletion of soil
nutrients.
Project Sustainability
43.       Although supportive services remained weak, SFW has shown its capability in
implementing a large plantation program. After plantation establishment, maintenance and
harvesting are crucial for the sustainability of the plantations. Because SFW focused mainly on
plantation establishment, forest management aspects have been neglected. Moreover, the village
panchayats and VFPCs which were given the responsibilities for plantation management and
utilization, have not been trained to carry out the given responsibilities. Since the plantations were
mature for harvesting and more would become so, there is an urgent need for SFW to prepare
forest management plans including information on stand-and-stock. Forest management plans
should be prepared for all the plantations in each agro-climatic zone. Moreover, to ensure that
village panchayats and VFPCs properly carry out plantation maintenance and harvesting,
intensive training on forest management should be provided.
Bank Performance
44.       The Bank undertook 14 supervision missions which were appropriately staffed and
fielded at appropriate intervals. Overall, there was staff continuity and coordination and the
Borrower benefitted from the missions' recommendations. Overall, the Bank's assistance to the
State from project appraisal to its completion had been beneficial. Recognizing the urgency and
importance of the project, the Bank remained flexible and when the Borrower needed time for
project completion, it granted the requests for extension. Similarly, when the Borrower needed to
adjust the magnitude of project components and to implement a new innovation in the project, the
Bank extended full support to the Borrower. Valuable recommendations and innovations
introduced by the Bank during project implementation were: (a) insistence on adequate budget
allocation and staff recruitment to achieve project objectives and planting targets; (b) more attention
to the development of the supportive components including research, publicity and extension,
monitoring and evaluation and community participation; (c) introduction of soil and water
conservation techniques, decentralized nursery through kissan, fast growing species, village
micro-planning and guidelines on project monitoring and evaluation; and (d) acceleration in
handing over from SFW of established plantations to VFPCs for management and benefit
utilization.
45.       In focusing attention on the various activities of this complex project, the following
areas were not given closer attention and required some conditionalities for Credit extension: (a)
hiring of consultants to provide guidance in planning and execution of the programs for nursery,
research, publicity and extension, and monitoring and evaluation, which could have helped SFW
in initial years in improving technical performance of plantations, producing more suitable tree
species, developing extension messages, better communication, and monitoring and evaluation



13
systems; (b) while seedling production, including non-timber, was emphasized at the design
stage, specifications of quality standards for nursery operation and plantation establishment were
not prescribed; and (c) the need to prepare forest management plans for different plantations in
each agro-climatic zone.
Borrower Performance
46.      Overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. Despite budget constraints and
shortage of staff, SFW accomplished a much larger plantation program and achieved project
objectives of generating employment, and increasing fuelwood, timber and fodder in the rural
areas. The project increased people's awareness of the importance of trees and environmental
conservation. The initiation of the management of sal coppicing was beneficial to a large number
of the economically-disadvantaged sections of the community. Similarly, plantations on laterite
wastelands through the strip plantation and farm forestry components created additional assets to
mostly landless farm laborers. Adoption of soil and water conservation measures in plantations to
improve site productivity was cost-effective. Because of the emphasis on plantations, not enough
attention was paid to the development of the supportive components. Development in research,
publicity and extension remain weak. Major problems encountered were budget constraints,
shortage of staff, inadequate staff training, staff housing and problems of mobility. Only 50% of
the required staff were in place and 60% of staff housing were completed. Following the Bank's
recommendations during the latter part of project implementation, SFW gave increasing attention to
the implementation of supportive components and the involvement of people in the planning and
execution of project activities. Micro-planning has been used more extensively in project planning.
Recognizing the need for community involvement in plantation management and utilization,
GOWB issued orders to hand over strip plantations and sal coppice to village panchayats and
VFPCs for management and utilization. Although many plantations and the sal forests were
already handed over to village panchayats and VFPCs for management, the much needed plantation
management plan was not given priority which is a requirement in scheduling silvicultural
treatment and harvesting regimes. Moreover, the stand-and-stock information on SFW's
plantations has not yet become available, which is important in future stumpage valuation. The
Borrower substantially complied with the Credit covenants and most of the Bank's
recommendations. However, many of the required staff positions remained unfilled resulting in
ineffective operations, weak supervision and insufficient support services to farmers. GOWB
failed to employ consultants to help in designing and developing programs for research, publicity
and extension, and monitoring. Although GOWB partially complied with the provision of staff
housing, housing rental was only provided in the latter periods of project implementation.
Project Relationship
47.      The Bank maintained good relationship with GOI and GOWB through its Resident
Mission. This was particularly significant when the Borrower was unable to utilize 50% of the
IDA Credit by the end of the original Credit closing date in December 1987. The Bank responded
quickly to Government's request to extend the project implementation period by four years and to
increase disbursement rates. The Bank's recommendations on soil and water conservation
measures and decentralized nursery were beneficial, and its efforts in helping SFW to involve
community in project planning, plantation management, and monitoring and evaluation, and to
link SFW's extension with the Agriculture Department's existing Training and Visit network,
were highly appreciated by the Borrower.



14
Consultant Services
48.      72 man-months of local consultancy were provided for stove technology, monitoring
and evaluation, and communication and extension. Local consultants were employed for a wood
balance and eucalyptus marketing study, not originally identified at appraisal, and a
communications and publicity study. The recommendations of the communication and publicity
consultant remained unimplemented. No difficulties were encountered with GOU/GOWB
procedures for local competitive bidding in respect of building construction and vehicle and
equipment procurement.
Project Documentation and Data
49.      The main documents governing project implementation were the Staff Appraisal Report
and its project files, the Development Credit Agreement, and the Project Agreement. The
documents were generally well prepared and provided a useful framework for the Bank and the
Borrower to implement the project and monitor its progress. However, the Staff Appraisal Report
did not provide sufficient operational guidelines on: (a) implementation of the research program;
(b) identification of beneficiaries and the role of community; (c) nursery and plantation
management; and (d) monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact. Initial annual
reports produced by Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and special studies undertaken by consultants
were useful to project planning and implementation.



15
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
Bank personnel are recognized as highly qualified professional experts and experienced in
their own field. Many new practices were adopted in implementing the project such as V-ditch
afforestation techniques, decentralization of farm forestry nurseries through the kissans and
farmers to reach the people more effectively and quickly, planting of trees on agricultural field
bunds, group farm forestry, agroforestry, introduction of quick growing-species like Subabul etc.
We were greatly benefitted by the view of the various supervision and appraisal missions of the
Bank who came here from time to time during the project implementation. Large scale usage of
vetiveria grass as a live contour hedge is a very useful outcome of the mission's visit.
We were also greatly benefitted by the Bank's guidance about the methodology to be
adopted for monitoring and evaluation of such a huge project. The monitoring and evaluation
techniques are neither too cumbersome nor too complicated and at the same time cover almost all
our requirements.
The Bank was very sympathetic and considerate in extending the project for four years.
Though the appraisal report total planting target was exceeded by about 8 percent at the end of the
first phase of the project in March 87, a considerable amount of SDR balance was available at that
time on account of the devaluation of the rupee. The Bank had agreed to our proposal for
extension of the project period upto 1990-91 to enable us to utilize the balance SDR.
Different missions of the Bank were conducted by different personnel and in most cases
Bank changed the experts. Irrespective of a given guideline or objective, the views and
suggestions differ from person to person and at times it became difficult to pay attention to varying
opinions. So we feel that the Bank should, as far as possible, not change the personnel during the
various supervision and appraisal mission of a particular project.
In the staff sector the achievement is only about 48% of the appraisal target. Bank has
rightly observed that though the project planting target has been achieved, the lack of staff in the
long term may seriously affect our capacity, not only to continue the social forestry programme,
but also the other territorial responsibilities. The Bank has suggested to recruit the staff as
provided in the appraisal report in order to continue the momentum in the development of social
forestry in the state.
We are greatly benefitted by the advise of the Bank regarding the method of communication
and extension system with the rural mass. The society as a whole has adopted the practices of
forestry. Farmers are adopting forestry practices in a group, in other words known as group farm
forestry.
2. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
The project started in the year 1981 and has come to an end in March 1991. Initially the
project was launched for a period of 6 years at an estimated outlay of Rs.348 million
corresponding to US$43.5 million or SDR equivalent of 25.8 million. The planting target over the
period of 6 years was 93,000 ha. Though the targets were reached for most of the components by
the end of the project period, unutilized credit funds were available due to sharp appreciation of the
US$ over the Indian Rupee. The project was thus extended with due approval of the Bank for full



16
utilization of the balance available credit. The revised physical targets for various components are
as follows:
Strip Plantation                     23,000 ha
Village Woodlot                       6,000 ha
Farm Forestry                         111,100 ha
Degraded Forest Rehab (by coppicing)  60,000 ha
Degraded Forest Rehab (by planting)  10,000 ha
Improved Chulla                      10,000 ha
At the end of the project the total expenditure was Rs.639.95 million out of which
reimbursement has been claimed for Rs.426.116 million which completely utilized the credit fund
of SDR 25.8 million. The achievement of the planting activities has been exceed by about 19.5%
over the revised physical target. The achievement is tremendous and could be made possible
mainly due the efforts of the forestry personnel and also due to the proper participation of the
people.
Strip Plantation
The revised target of strip plantation has been fully achieved and at the end of the project
23,765 ha of strip plantations has been created. The technical quality of planting and the species
mix were generally excellent. The Government decided to handover the management and
protection of strip plantations to the villages through local bodies, namely panchayats, in the third
year of planting. A Government order was also issued specifying the conditions about distribution
of benefits on the transfer of management control. But the extension message of community
management of common property has not percolated very much to the beneficiaries. So later on it
has been decided to link the beneficiaries right from the beginning of plantation activities, i.e. the
work of actual planting, nursery raising, its maintenance etc., would be done by the beneficiaries
themselves, so that they immediately get the benefit of wage and subsequently the usufructs. If the
beneficiaries are involved during the implementation stage, better participation is obtained from
them. Also we are thinking of projecting the various produce that would be obtained from the
plantation in subsequent years. In that case the beneficiaries would also know what kind of assets
they are handling with and a sense of better resposibility would grow amongst them. Already 40%
of the strip plantations have been handed over to the Panchayats. But panchayats' performance in
this respect is far from satisfactory. Due to lack of initiative, they are not able to identify the
beneficiaries and link them with the actual management of the common property.
Village Woodlot
The village woodlot component, however, has not developed as envisaged. The
achievement is far short of the target. Only 2405 ha of village woodlot plantations have been
created during the project period. The main reason for non-fulfillment of target is non-availability
of community land and little enthusiasm for establishing plantations on community land. Another
important reason is that panchayats themselves are taking up such lands for plantation under
various rural development schemes.
Farm Foresa
This is one component in which the achievement is excellent. 150,554 ha has been
achieved which is 35.5% above the revised target. Active participation by the people and
panchayats were received. Nurseries have been decentralized by breaking them into smaller units



17
and spreading all over through the kissans. Kissan nursery has progressed very well in this State.
it has become very popular because it provides economic support to the poor section of the society
and at the same time the intended users get the seedlings at their doorsteps. 60% of the annual
seedlings production are raised by the kissan nursery beneficiaries. Involving the State Agriculture
Department Extension Service and particularly their village level workers for wide and quick
dissemination of social forestry message recommended from time to time to tackle the shortage of
Forest Department extension staff. This possibility had been explored in a few districts. This
effort did not succeed.
Farm Forestry was mostly accepted by the small and marginal farmers which is the target
group. Possession of land between 0 to 2 ha falls in this group. Initially, the farmers having land
between 1 to 2 ha adopted the farm forestry. But gradually farmers having less amount of land
started planting trees. Presently most of the farm forestry beneficiaries have less than .5 ha of
land.
One of the major objectives of farmn forestry was to meet the local demand of fuelwood.
This was aimed at by planting trees on the private wastelands locally available. But gradually the
involvement in social forestwy was dictated by commercial considerations and fuelwood for home
consumption became a relatively secondary role. Farmers became more and more interested to
produce saleable commodities such as poles, pulpwood and fuelwood for urban markets. That is
why farmers adopted monoculture of Eucalyptus and Acacias. These are fast growing species and
are relatively hardy and are not browsed by cattle. These give the farmers a ready-made cash crop.
But the practice of monoculture resulted in suppression of ground cover. Moreover, combined
with the sweeping of all fallen leaves for domestic fuel, the ground is left bare and recycling of soil
nutrient is hindered. Extension effort could not do much to ameliorate the situation.
Farm forestry has brough a new change amongst the farmers. Some farmers are trying to
obtain bank finance for farm forestry component. This trend should be encouraged because this
would lead to the development of self-sustaining social forestry in the long run. At the current
trend of market price of wood produce, social forestry has become a profitable investment.
Initially, when the objective was to grow fuelwood to meet the local demand, cash/input subsidy
were given to the participants. But when commercial considerations got priority over the fuelwood
production for home consumption, the cash/input subsidy were withdrawn in a phased manner.
Now the farmers grow trees primarily for cash income in lieu of or in addition to products for
domestic consumption. Fuelwood is considered as a by-product and not the principal product.
Another, and the most important target group, was the landless class, whom we could
reach and identify successfully. The Government of West Bengal has given tree patta (lease) of
vested land to the landless people who afterwards have taken up farm forestry on those lands.
Another interesting point is to note the success of group farm forestry which was closely tied to
individual ownership of such lands. This ensures the community cooperation.
The main objectives of extension activities were: to reach maximum number of small and
marginal farmers, landless agricultural labourers, economically backward section of the society; to
ensure active participation of the identified groups in implementing and sharing of benefits of the
project; creating of village level forest protection committees; to build individual and community
motivation and to bring about attitudinal change amongst staff. The target groups were properly
identified. A properly trained and equipped team of extension workers were created. Though
only 42% of total number of extension workers proposed at appraisal was recruited, but they were
given sufficient training regarding various aspects of extension activities. The extension strategy
was based on the common human behavior like change in their attitude, lifestyle, social needs, etc.



18
A general awareness of the need for tree planting could be grown amongst the various local bodies,
such as panchayats, youth clubs, NGOs. Then the specific messages on forestry was
disseminated to the villagers, like the nursery techniques, planting techniques, land preparation,
choice of species, tending operation techniques, etc. Extension calendar was also devised. The
help of NGOs were taken in extension activities for quick dissemination of social forestry message
because they had an established contact with the target groups through various activities of their
own. We were able to build up a bridge between the foresters and the villagers. Widespread
publicity was given through radio, television, cinema slides, boardings, leaflets, posters, audio-
casettes, meetings in villages with panchayat members, seminars to schools, colleges and clubs,
exhibition and observance of forestry week every year. Extension and other workers including
motivators periodically visited the villages to arrange essential inputs like timely supply of
seedlings, supervision of soil works, application of fertilizer, insecticides, protection from cattle
grazing, etc.
Rehabilitation of Degraded Forests
In this component the achievement is 6.3% of excess of the revised target of the project.
The success has been achieved through proper participation by the people in implementation,
management and sharing of subsequent benefits. Forest protection committees were formed by
properly identifying the beneficiaries from amongst the inhabitants in and around the forests. This
is totally a new concept of bringing the people in the management of Government forests. West
Bengal has made a pioneering effort in people's participation which is now being adopted in other
parts of the country. Simultaneously, microplanning exercises have also been taken up extensively
to take planning process at the grassroot level to assure the needs of the people after thorough
interaction between the people and the agencies. So the forest protection committees are associated
from the planning stage. All the works were done through the identified beneficiaries of the forest
protection committees. These committees would protect the forests and plantations and in return
Government is committed to give 25% of the net return from the final harvest in addition to facility
of collection of nonwood forest produce free of cost, which would provide substantial income
return to the selected beneficiaries. During the project period, 1769 Forest Protection Committees
have been formed involving 171,000 rural families and they are protecting 233,000 ha of degraded
forests, including 674,415 ha achievement under this project. The forest fringe dwellings are
identified as priority group in forest management.
Improved Chulla (Stove)
In this component also we have exceeded the revised target by 17.6% which is an excellent
performance. The improved smokeless chulla is very effective as it saves 35% of energy as
compared to the conventional chulla. We have stopped distribution of improved smokeless chulla
since the Relief Department has taken on the same. But research should be carried out to further
improve the design and effectiveness of the chulla so that it can be easily obtained and installed
under village conditions.
After the social forestry project has been launched, the forestry has gained considerable
momentum and importance. Government of India has made it compulsory to spend 20% of the
rural development scheme allocations on afforestation works. As a policy decision, rural
development schemes such as NREP, RLEGP, DPAP, JRY, etc. are implemented by local self
governing bodies, i.e. panchayats. So the panchayats have also gained experience and momentum
in afforestation works.



19
Comments on Part I
Paras 1-14  The Interim Evaluation Report published by the SF Wing in Janu-
ary 1991 indicates that the survival rate of strip and farm forestry
components as 74Z and 53Z respectively. The strip plantations have
not only a high survival rate but also have brought a significant
change in the environment, drawing appreciation from different
corners. The survival rate in case of farm forestry, i.e., 53Z also
may not be deemed low for the fact that the ultimate crop that would
be available to the farmers would be of adequate density. Consider-
ing the various constraints this may not also be deemed unsatisfac-
tory.
It is the territorial Divisions who are looking after the organiza-
tion of the VFPCs for the management of sal coppice forests and not
the SF Divisions.
16    Operational  guidelines  as such were not provided  in the SAR.
Despite this, a technology manual has been prepared in which details
of micro-planning, Farm Forestry, RDF, choice of species, spacing,
anil working, operational plan for extension, etc. have been
incorporated. A copy of the above manual has also been supplied to
the Project Completion team of the World Bank.   Both FEWs and
motivators have been trained from time to time at the Forestry
Training Centres set up for the purpose.  Such training has also
been extended to higher levels including foresters, forest rangers
and gazetted officers also.
There was no provision for community participation and micro-plan
(i.e., involving the participants and beneficiaries in the planning
process) in the SAR. However, these two aspects were given adequate
importance and were extensively used during the later part of the
project.   This has also been mentioned in para. 5.1 of the PCR
itself.
17    The nursery management, the quality of seedlings, etc. underwent a
qualitative change over the project period. This is only natural in
a situation like this.  It was a learning process and during the
later periods the technology registered a qualitative improvement.
the beneficiaries now are not only conscious about the species they
are going to take, they are also conscious about the quality of the
seedlings supplied to them. The nursery management has accordingly
been geared up.
18-19    No comments.



20
20    The last Evaluation Report of the SF Wing shows a survival rate of
74% with a minimum of 53% and a maximum of 89%. It is not therefore
understood how the figure 53% has been arrived at.
Although there is no specific mention about preparation of a formal
management plan for the strip plantations in the SAR, a management
plan for the strip plantations has been prepared showing all
operations to be carried out year-wise during one felling cycle
(Reference - Bon-O-Panchayat at published in 1989).
In the strips,  as would be evidenced from the last published
Evaluation  Report,  that  depending  on  the  agro-climatic  zones
adequate, diversity in the species mix is being maintained.
21    No comments.
22    As already mentioned in the foregoing, the survival rate is 53% and
not 462.
Inadequate maintenance in a few cases has been primarily due to two
things: (a) poor economic condition of the farmers, since more than
two-thirds of the beneficiaries were landless farm labourers (see
para. 5.11); (b) a sense of insecurity which has motivated them to
adopt closer spacing. This is despite sound technical advice given
by the supervising staff. But such occurrence is not significant
and at a later stage the situation has been largely corrected.
23    Some volume tables have already been prepared by the SF Wing to have
an estimation of the future wood supply from farm forestry.   It
would not be perhaps practical to attempt to prepare management
plans for all F.F. areas However, the information regarding growth,
volume, etc. may be disseminated.
24-25    No comments.
26    Under the project only degraded sal forests have been coppiced to
ensure better regeneration of sal coppice.   It is basically a
silvicultural operation and fuel wood and coppiced poles, if any,
have been produced as a by-product.  All silvicultural practices
have been followed in the matter of coppicing.
27-28    No comments.
29    It appears that the observations made against this para. are not
entirely based on facts. In the MEU, a Deputy Conservator who was
earlier trained in the UK worked as DCF for a number of years.
Another officer of the level of EACF who received training at the
CFI, Oxford, is still working as additional DFO in the MEU. Amongst
two silviculturists (Research Officers) one has undergone a
specialist forestry training course at the CFI having been sponsored
by the British Council for 11 weeks.   This course incorporated
research methods, management, extension, rural sociology, etc.



21
30    No comments.
31    Many extension and teaching materials have been published by the SF
Wing from time to time and most of it has been in the vernacular so
as to reach the target groups easily.   In many instances the
extension and teaching materials overlap. Such publications include
posters, pamphlets, booklets, quarterly journal and video cassettes
etc.  The subject covered the correct planting method, choice of
species, control of pests and disease, use of improved chullah,
agro-forestry, propagation of bamboo, fodder cultivation, etc.
32-34    No comments.
35    Strip plantations raised during the project period will take a
minimum of 8 to 20 years to become mature.   In many instances
especially those raise din North Bengal the gestation period will be
higher.  Therefore, a small percentage only needs harvesting and
replanting immediately and for this necessary action has already
been initiated.
36    No comments.
37    It is a fact that introduction of improved stoves could not make a
big impact among the rural poor. Out target groups being landless
farm labourers, small and marginal farmers, firewood is a
demonetised item for them. Fuel saving is no incentive for them as
they did not have to pay for the fuel. Perhaps this could be more
successfully introduced among the people who have to pay for the
fuel and are economically slightly better-of. It was not possible
for the SF Wing with limited resources to go in for introduction of
improved stoves on a large scale and organise extensive training and
maintenance as are essential requirements in such a bid.
38-42    No comments.
43    No comments.
44    Soil and water conservation techniques have been adopted in the
state more or less since inception of forestry.   Some specific
measures suggested by the Bank have been adopted, amending the
existing practices in some cases.
The idea of protecting the forests through VFPCs has been mooted in
the  state  since  1970s.        The  VFPCs  are  gradually  being
institutionalised to cover the entire state and for some periods
fund support for the purpose was obtained from SF project.



22
Comments on Part III 1/
Tables:
1,2,3       No comments.
4     A     Actual number of VFPC is 1738 and not 865.
B     Staff:  Actual number of
Statisticians      nil
A.D.F.O.             4
F.E.W.             140
Total              491
C     Actual number of
Forest Ranger's Quarter         22
Forester's Quarter              39
Staff Quarter                   96
W.B. for School Hostel           1
For. School Staff Qr.            5
FG School Hostel                 2
Women's Hostel                   2
Other Constn.                    2
Non-residential                 40
Total                      209
D     Actual number of vehicles
Car                              1
Jeeps                            6
Motor Cycles                   120
Publicity van                    1
Minibus                          1
Total                      129
1/    Tables in Part III have been revised to reflect the above changes.



23
Part HI. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Credit No./                                            Year of
Project Name                    Purpose                Approval        Status
Cr. 925-IN            To increase supply of fuelwood in rural  1978   Completed
Uttar Pradesh         areas, provide poles, bamboo, small tim-
Social Forestry       ber, fodder grass and minor forestry pro-
ducts and strengthen the social forestry
organization to carry out project works.
Cr. 961-IN                              "                     1979   Completed
Gujarat Social
Forestry
Cr. 1178-IN                                                   1982   Completed
West Bengal
Social Forestry
Cr. 1286-IN                             "                     1982   Completed
Jammu and
Kashmir and
Haryana
Social Forestry
Cr. 1514-IN                             "                     1984   Ongoing
Kerala Social
Forestry
Cr. 1432-IN                             "                     1984   Ongoing
Karnataka Social
Forestry
Cr. 1611-IN           To assist the States of Gujarat, Uttar  1985   Ongoing
National Social       Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, and Rajasthan
Forestry             to expand and improve their social forestry
activities.



24
Table 2. Project Timetable
Item         Date Planned          Revised Date           Actual Date
Preparation                                                     1980
Appraisal                                                       Jan./Feb. 1981
Negotiations                Jul-81                              Aug-81
Board Approval             Sep-81                               Oct-81
Credit Signing                                                  Feb-82
Credit Effectiveness                                            Apr-82
Completion                 Mar-87                Dec-87
Dec-88
Dec-89         Dec-90
Closing                    Dec-87                Dec-88
Dec-89
Mar-91         Mar-91



25
Table 3. Credit Disbursements
(Cumulative in SDR millions)
Actuals as %
IDA Fiscal             Appraisal                                  of Appraisal
Years                  Estimate           Actuals                 Estimate
82                     1.3               0.7                       3
83                      4                 1.9                      7
84                      7                4.7                       18
85                     10.6              7.7                       30
86                      15               10.1                      39
87                     20.7              13.1                      51
88                     25.8              15.9                      62
89                                       18.1                      70
90                                       21.2                      82
91                                       25.6    a/                99
a/ Final Disbursement was in July 1991.



26
Table 4. Project Implementation
Key Indicators
Actual as %
Appraisal   Revised       Actuals         of Appraisal
A. Plantations         Estimate   Estimate       Achieved          Estimate
(in ha)
Strip Plantation         20000      23000          23784             119%
Village Woodlots         6000        6000          2405              40%
Rehabilitation of Degraded
Forests                  15000      70000          65011       1/    433%
Farm Forestry            52000      111100        150554             290%
Total                    93000      210100        241754             260%
No. of VFPCs               -           -           1738
No. of Stoves Distributed    10000                 10260             103%
1/ Including 11926 ha of plantations, 53085 ha of sal coppice management.



27
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1178-IN)
Table 4. Project Implementation (continued)
Key Indicators
Actuals as
Appraisal                   % of
B. Staffing                                  Estimate      Actuals    Apprl.Est.
(Nos.)
Add. Chief Conserv.-Forest                       1            1         100%
Cons. of Forest                                 2            2          100%
Deputy Cons. of Forest                          10           7           70%
Chief Public Relations Officer (PRO)             1           1          100%
Division PRO (Extension)                        9            6           67%
Statistician                                     1           0           0%
Computor                                         1           1          100%
ADFO                                            9            4           44%
Forest Ranger                                   47           30          64%
Deputy Ranger/Forests                           184         109          59%
Forest Extension Workers                       360          140          39%
Other Staff                                    365          190          52%
Total                                          990          491          50%



28
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1178-IN)
Table 4. Project Implementation (continued)
Key Indicators
Actual as
Appraisal            Actual                 % of
C. Vehicle Procurement    Estimate            Procured              Apprl.Est.
(Nos.)
Car                           2                   1                    50%
4-Wheel Drive                 10                  6                    60%
Motorcycle                   120                 120                   100%
Diesel Station Wagon          1                    -                   0%
Mobile Publicity Van          3                   1                    33%
Bus                           1                    -                   0%
Mini-Bus                     24                   1                    4%
Total                       161                 129                  80%
D. Civil Works
(Nos.)
Residential Quarters:
Forest Rangers' Quarters      20                  22                   110%
Foresters' Quarters           50                  39                   78%
Staff Quarters               96                  96                    100%
WB Forest School Hostel       1                   1                    100%
Forest School Staff Qrtrs.    2                   5                   250%
Forest Guard School Hostels   2                   2                    100%
Women's Hostel                1                   2                   200%
Other                          -                  2                     0
Non-Residential Quarters:
Seed Godown, Training
Center, Forest Guards
School, Research Lab          13                 40                   308%
Total                        185                 209                   113%



29
Table 5. Project Cost and Financing
L Project Cost
a/Appraisal Estimate         Actuals
Project Components             Rs. million  US$ million   Rs. million  US$ million
Plantations                          242.20        30.10     387.51       28.85
Research                               0.70         0.17       3.51        0.26
Stove Unit                             0.60         0.10       0.97        0.07
Monitoring and Evaluation              1.30         0.20       4.11        0.31
Training and Fellowships               7.60         1.00       6.23        0.46
Project Organization                  96.30        12.00     237.67        17.70
Total                                348.70        43.57     640.00       47.65
a/ Including physical and price contingencies.
HI. Project Financing
Planned                   a/Actual
US$ million   % of Total  US$ million  % of Total
IDA                                   29.00         67%       32.40        68%
GOI/GOWB                              14.50         33%       15.30        32%
Total                                 43.50        100%       47.70        100%
a/ Disbursement levels were raised in two stages in October and November 1990.



30
Table 6. Project Results
Appraisal                  Actual/PCR
Estimate                  1991 Estimate
(Jan. 1981)
Production                  Production
A. Direct Benefits      Unit    (000 tons)                   (000 tons)
Indicators:
Village Woodlots    ha                 6000                         2405
Strip Plantations   ha                20000                        23784
Farm Forestry       ha                52000                       150554
Rehabilitation of
Degraded Forests    ha               15000                        65011
Production:
Fuelwood            mt                 6840                        10600
Poles               pieces           230620                        15900 a/
Bamboo              pieces           233000
Timber              m3                 3930                          120
Fodder              mt                 2665                        15700
Fruits              mt                 1820
Eucalyptus Oil      mt                    2
No. of Beneficiaries    million          1.6 b/                     0.64 c/
Employment generated mandays       15 million                   25 million
Footnotes:
a/'OOO mt
b/ Number of people who were expected to benefit from the incremental fuelwood plantation.
c/ 460,000 farmers in farm forestry and 1800,000 farmers in rehabilitated degraded forests.
SAR Estimate                 PCR Estimate
B. Price of Outputs            Financial    Economic       Financial       Economic
(Stumpage Value)   Unit           Rupees per unit             Rupees per unit
Fuelwood            mt              150          120            250             200
Poles               piece            5           4              600      a/     480
Bamboo              piece            4           3                -
Timber              m3              400         320               -              -
Fodder              mt              15           15              20             18
Fruit               mt              200          160              -
Eucalyptus Oil      t               100          80
Footnote:
a/ Poles, pulpwood and timber (Rs. per ton)



31
Table 6. Project Results (continued)
C. Economic Impact                            Appraisal               Actual (PCR)
Estimate                  Estimate
Economic Rate of Return(%)                       28                        24      a/
Assumptions:
Project Life (Years)                             30                        30
Full Development (Years)                         12                         19
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)                 0.8                       0.8
Conversion factor for unskilled labor            0.8                       0.6
a/ See Attachment I Table 6
D. Financial Impact
Financial Rate of Return (%): b/
Farm Forestry                                    a/                        23.5
Strip Plantations                                aJ                        20
Rehabilitated Degraded Forests:
Plantations                                     a/                        20
Coppice                                         a/                        30
Village Woodlots                                 at                        26.5
a/ Not calculated at appraisal.
b/ See Attachment I Table 1-5
E. Studies                                     Purpose                    Status
Wood Balance Study a/          To collect data on wood consumption and    Completed in 1987
demand projection.
Communications and Publicity a/  To assess the extension and communications Completed in 1986
impacL
Marketing of Eucalyptus a/     To identify marketing mechanism.       Completed in 1989
a/ Not identified at appraisal.



32
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Project (PA)                                                Original
Agreement                                                Compliance   Level ora/
Section         Summary Description           Type         Date      Compliance   Remarks
PA 2.04 (c)   West Bengal to funish to IDA mid-
term evaluation report of progress  RPT         3/31/84         1
PA 2.07      Appointment of Chief Publicity
Officer and Deputy Conservator
of Forests                         ORG          6/30/82         1
PA 2.08 (i)   Appointment of stove technology
consultant                         ORG          6/30/82         1
PA 2.08 (ii)  Appointment of communication,
extension, and training consultants  ORG        6/30/82         3
PA 2.08 (iii)  Appointmenl of monitoring and
evaluation consultants              ORG         6/30/82         5        FAO/Bank
produced an
operational
guide
PA 2.09      Establishment of one social forestry
circle each for the north and south             6/30/82
with the Social Forestry Wing      ORG         12/31/83         1
PA 2.10      West Bengal to ensure that field
staff live near assigned areas and
provide adequate rent/allowances.   ORG                         I
PA 2.11 (i)   West Bengal to establish a State
Policy Committee to ensure
coordination/set policy            ORG          6/30/82         1
PA 2.11 (ii)  West Bengal to establish district
committees to ensure interdepart-
mental coordination                ORG          6130/82         1
PA 3.01 (ii)  Furnish certified accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal
year nine months after end of such
year                                ADT                         I
a/ Level of Compliance
I - Fully complied
2 - Partially complied-not affecting implementation
3 - Non-compliance
4 - Not yet due
5 - Covenant no longer applicable-should be deleted/modified
6 - Compliance date requires revision
Al- Audit 1 year overdue
A2 - Audit 2 or more years overdue



Table 8. Mission Data and Staff Inputs
Type of of      Date                 No. of   Mandays   Special-  Performance               Type of d/
Mission      (MoJYr.)    By        Persons   In Field   lzation a/   Rating b/   Trend c/  Problems
Preparation                   GOWB
Appraisal                      IDA
Supervisions:                  IDA
1                  12/0/82                 2         9         D, E          1           I        none
2                   6/0/83                 1          3         A            1           2          F
3                   5/0/84                 2         12         LF           1           1          F
4                   11/0/84                2         12         I,F          1           2          F
5                   3/0/85                 1         10          F           1           2          F
6                   310/86                 1         11          F           2           2          F
7                   910/86                 4         20       A,F,F,S        2           2          F
8                  10/0/87                 2         10         A,F          2           2          F
9                   410188                 1         11          F           2           2          F
10                 12/0/88                 1         6          F            2           2          M
i 1                 710/89                 1          9         F            2           2         F,M
12                 11/0/89                 2          8        F,S           2           2         M,F
13                  710/90                 3         18        A,F,F         2           2          M
14                  110/91                 2         12         F,F          1           2          M
Completion          6-7/91    FAO/CP       3         21       E, F, S        2           2          M
a/ A=Agriculture; D=Rural Development; E=Economist; F=Forestry; I=lnstitution; P=Project Advisor, S=Sociology
b/ Performance Rating: I=problem free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems; 3=major problems.
c/Trend: I=improving; 2=stationary; 3=deteriorating.
d/ Type of problems: F=Financial; M=Management; T=Technical.



Table 8. Mission Data and Staff Inputs (continued)
Staff Inputs (sws)
Stage of Project     FY80   FY82   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   Total
Cyde
Identification/Prepation    10.6   28.9                                                                                 39.50
Appraisal                      47.8   2.30                                                                              50.10
Negoiaions                            2.10                                                                               2.10
Lending Operations                    5.30                                                                               5.30
Supervision                           7.20   6.00    6.30   10.70   10.90   7.40    4.10    4.70    4.30    6.50        68.10
Project Completion                                                                                               7.70    7.70
Project Adinisttion                   0.10    0.30                                                                       0.40
0.00
Totals                10.60   76.70   17.00   6.30    6.30   10.70   10.90   7.40    4.10    4.70    4.30    6.50    7.70  173.20



60$! K0h SOCAL FORS305 PWMCI
pMMci CtP3IlFu  MOO3(   0   3 11I)
At.C .a   3.b3. 13 N. OM  IIg.cgI  .01 CO  0Sa   11.3  Of SI1BIP -aMW   03413A3301
V-5          -      I. 3   tV-r7   tea     V..,a a- S    ,,-,.    I -i.?.   v.'r.       lrr        yar  3   t-Il    .r3              e. I       I.a-I4   ta              -16 %er    --P..I     vi*.r.l    ya.-g  5...-.70  l.-r.7    V.-r.?         e.r.lJ3  Wc.#4
l,td.................0  ............   -----  --------  --                                                                                          .....  ..............                         .    ........                     --------  ----.... ...
pt.Iat.a.rra.                 ~~         ~     ~~0  0  0     S00        7.          75s0       ?SO        75         ?O         7So        76O        7s0        760         7S0        76.        7so        75so       IS0        ?So         75o        PA       'ISO        7.         n
0.103 Pt' 06.3m)
Prt,I*~~~~~li-~~~4          0 ~~       O          a          0          0          0          0          0          0         Is           0          0          0          0           0          0          01         0          0.        0I.0,                                       3
0  0         0          3 ~       ~      ~    ~    ~ ~             ~ I  I  I             I 3a         I          I          I           I          I         I~          I          I                                                                is  3I 3
I    .                                   0          0          0      0.05       0.06       0.06       Q.C5.       0.05       0.06       0.06          O       0.0Os      0.06       0.06s       0 Os       0.065      0.0 Os     v          0. 06       0.06,      0. 06     0. 06      0.06       0.06
0,tet/Pat...ood3Ot.OOlal)      0          00                    0          0          0          0,         0          0     700`            0          0           0          0          3                     0          0,          0          0          0          0         0      7300
t..I..530,.  7501.13   0          0          0        76         750        750        75.0        6          5        31.        .760         75.        76.0       75.        75        175.0I60                 .         7I.4       750        76 6s7e                         354
SaO,    P  /0.t3                0St, 3                                                                                  3           3          3                                                                           se3           3.      I3                   's            3        3M
Ad0                      39.63I
- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - -  .. . . .   .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .-- - - - -   - - - - - - -



ElSI 6040At SOCIA  l 060510  PDCI
fl00,09110.1( D-10. 601311Cr. 0.~ 2374 lIN)
1i.huo    :lfllo  2-0., H. ticI-ii Ccc,t  cod 1S-colit  ol Rim (00"ICl4
lie itic.7 ? V c.3 )        - ba   -'-5           .    boor?    bar-    .or            boa.,-Io  be.-II  V..          .a-I]   1-li .16Vod-If  bt'.                          14ea-S   bf-e.9  lea-40  b.r.2   boo-??  woe-4]  In                 4-2bcef
Coils                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ss  o? 5s
Kaniesecor                 0~~~~~~~~               ~~~50  520  20  022 5    5 Us2       625        36        ?$0        n00       12$       025       12$        50         700       Us5       67s       12$       250       200       125       WS        psi       no         in-
o.w0      @00       0.00      0.00      0.0e      0.00       500o      0.00      0.00      OCO0       a00       0.00      0-00      0.00        0.00      0.00      000t      2.00      0.00       0.00      0.0       0.00      0.00    16.00      dif
4ooi~~~~~~o,C              3.50~~~~~ A  0.0    00 0 D     .4I       000      0.0        10        0.0       0000                 30        00        0.01      0.0        00D.O00                          00      co        cc        00        00         .0       o      
lode-                              3.03      3.75      410       0.6        $01. 30             554'       #'4       0.1m      261~      :IISO     , 250       so5       :s54,       54      20,        2.50,     55'O    2,~50       2.50        ' 2.50  2.5       2.50      20        2.
i 1.ti7oI4-cdi6,#00o/c              0         0         4                   0          0      3000O       1b         0          0      2400         0         0         c                     0         0       20           0                   00                            c     ;
lotoc   q',.  SWA/T)              '00        0I         03I       0                    0       3IT i                            0       '00         0l        0         0           0         IT                 50          c         0         0                            
MATllFlWS                       Ii        A5       I4N011                          0        II         33         33        53        31        so        50        SC'         so        so        50        330        so        so        so        so        so        50        3
10101L SfS"l(III/W4                 403       0V         '         4540      101       306      3003        3P         33        Si      293?         so        so        so         so        so         $0      3040        so        50        so        53         so       50      2100
MITl 11111033$(ft/b63              -3o        -455     .300       3167       .2'       jl       203         -92      -1         14'       717       .55        .2         0 -350I ?O  s         I5      -15       1S53      -no       -I50       -iS      -52!       -00       -350     fl'S
-  100            70933~~~~~~~~~~~- - - - -       - - - - -- -         . .  .. . . . . .                        - - --                                                                                      - -  -- -     - -       - - -  
CY%



3453 6043* SOCIAl 0005 STIl PMJ(1
pmIJcl ((341(110  43003ICr M.  WelS  IN)
Otat..t1:1.61. 3-P.r Hea P laa.ta   C*Sts aad Seerefls of 0*00 F(345SIT
bea -)    b ear-?   lea-S    lear-,a    Va- S    le.,r-f    l-ar-I   tear-S   tear-          V.ar-lO  Vea-II1  lea-I?  lear-I3  t.-Id    'ta-IS                0-I   ler-         ba-It  ln.-I9  tea-70   lea-7l  r.ar.f   V.a-I)  lea-id  le,-?
c o ts. .                            . . . .   - - - - - - - - - - - -    . . . . - - --37 0---0                      - - - - --0- -   I . ..S              - -- - - - -  -  - - -      .      . .-. .     . . . . . . . - - - - -   - - -   - -                    --  - - - - -- . . . . . . . . . . .
pbatelrtac                             0          0         0       750        7o        750       75         750       750        750        750       7so       iS         750        M5         750       750        75         750       750       7s0        750       ?so       7So        750
301*1 (03   Asha                    3700       950        530       M5          '        750       iO         7M        750        75        75         750       750        75         25W       754)       75         750       75O        750       75         ?S0       750       7SO       75.
ble.tI Per HAIMll
F.lr/aale.ind                          0          0         0                    0         3'         P         C          P        3 0  0  0  0                                          *-         0         P          p00                            0pp0                                     3
Ieel-A                                 0                                         I          I         3I                            35          0         "I        "I         I           .         0          I        IS1        I0         I          I.       I~        I1        I01
il41e                                ii           a                   5          3                                        I        70                        7.0 7-.7 ie                                                2 .0  LA 7.  L        .1       7a        i.         .a        I0        Z.0
PeesPspaodOu03.t             P          0                   0          0                              P          0      300                     0         0                     0          0 30                      0               0    0         0               0         0    7'000
IaerIat lAs. lIOns)  0  0     0       750       75.0       710       73-0      753'       750      3150        750       7512       750       750         75*-i     750        75*-i    3350        750       750s       750       750 7"IO,50o        750 S    3110 . 1510, "so  ?S
Iedaerto,?0/a05                       s7         o         OD        10         80        00        00        06         St         St.        5-        5f        56         S6         St        St2        St         Si        50         St        St        5*         St        5.        St
101A1 IE0I1S(Its./ba)                           so9  0     87       370)      330        330       310        330       16      74-8"        306        300       306       30          'm        ne         J"        JM         X6         300       306        a0       300        306-71fl
VlI faIllS(Hs./hal                -30        -501       -130        10         60        60         00        0         St    lASSO          St                   St5        St         Sf         50        'o       3'51        56         St        1*        5          St        St    71W.
-4



:2: s~    r_ 3                    tw                           38
.   , -,  .  .                         2 
*  ,o,          o0_   o o oo   2  2o,
* . o. . - 00S...
.             000         000   '0 .2 
..    .         00 .00    .  .
3,0           000         000 2O 2 S
0,,      3       00          b 000 _.     _ .
*  '  o,         0~,        00    2  3    o. o.<
. ~   ~      p- . ' '                g
.. 3. .           00.              2  2 
.2 
e 4                               C,.  0     
.   .  '   ',   ,         '   .  .  .~
, 2                            
g    !2 .-      '&~. '                     ,   ''



39
Attachment 1: Table S. Wholesale Price Index and Exchange Rates
Exchange Rate */
GOI - FY    Wholesale Price     Deflator      Rs to US$    US$ to SDR-'/
Index bl
81/82              102.2            177            8.9            1.22
82/83              104.9            172            9.6            1.13
83/84              112.9            160            10.3           1.08
84/85              120.1            151           11.9            1.02
85/86              125.4            144           12.2            1.04
86/87              132.7            136.           12.8           1.16
87/88              143.6            126            13.0           1.32
88/89              154.3            117            14.5           1.39
89/90              166.3            109            16.7           1.33
90/91              180.8            100            18.0           1.37
a/ International Financial Statistics, IMF, June 1991.
b/ Ministry of Industries, Office of Economic Advisers (Base 1981/82 = 100).
sl IDA's financial years.



...... . ... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~4-lee.-                                                                                        44
of  1.9    I at   1. .9   II  .9 .1.  II  .1  W  C,.   eI  1. a.,   t, II,  I.  .11   1. .1                                                       a.                                                                         so-~~~~04101 A 0 0.000 004 ggeo gec~me jfl*4 eeebo04
40*4  met    g.m.   blessI  041,    a,      e-o     m         e      00      g.       0e        ot     sO       oe       og      2001    400    o ,r 004    111             00       me      04      00       00       0        e       e      m
me  e  eoeo   0  as  0,,  en     e      m        ec      00       otA     cos     oe       40        00      014      00g     0g0      oge     slo     o0       co       co       00      oo       oo     me        e      m                     t0eo,lt50
600 es   00     4,       4*       0l       e      00        e       00      0.       0        o       0        So       S*      00        g       4        lt     0.0     0A       ot      ot         e     co       00      m         e      m                       4i50
It               It., I.t IIOll    1m     000      .4       ,00 004 000              4,0Om. gee toS                     A0    'ge    00           00      ml      e,       04      m        t        o      oe       cD      eC      0.        e4e  
me  0440    0040    00,1    mOo    00t  gee  me    me~~~III I    me  me     me        ,,      Oe      me        e      ec        o.      01       0,      or      00        0 I     Cr     00       el      co       m        e       0 
e  o, lot ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~mgofeode
0so.C,     s, et.    ottO,   eon1 1.elt           000       eto Co, eSs              o          Ce,   eglo   ottl    04001                        .Ce oo, ts,   0g.,, 0000    0II 010      0t4 0.Oe         0.10     040       o      Itgor    OR     me0g-sO
ego g.e tee coo 00             no       me       eo        e      m       me      oge      eec     coo       ceo     ceo      44      0,       oo      te       co       ee      eg      00      01       00       00      0.      40                    0me0.oltOO
400    4S      00     ot"        -c4,             0        e       .       00      40      40               040      400      oee      oe,ooo           mc        c      m,eC             0e       04       .    wt          0       0       1       0                              l



