Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE  Copy                              Report No. P-3119-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
September 15, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 8, 1981)
US$1.00      =   Rs. 9.204325
Rs 1.00      -   US$ 0.10864
Rs 1 million =   US$ 108,640
The U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 to Rs 8.0, which represents the projected average
exchange rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CCF              Chief Conservator of Forests
CF               Conservator of Forests
FEW              Forest Extension Worker
cOI              Government of India
GOWB             Government of West Bengal
SFW              Social Forestry Wing
ton             metric ton
WBFD             West Bengal Forestry Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             India, acting by its President
Beneficiary:          The State of West Bengal (GOWB)
Amount:               SDR 25.8 million (US$29 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Relending Terms:      From the Government of India (GOI) to the Government of
West Bengal (GOWB), as part of Central assistance for
State development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
Project Description: The project would increase supplies of fuelwood for
domestic use in rural areas through the establishment
of 93,000 ha of plantations on private and public
wastelands throughout the State. It would also pro-
vide poles, bamboo, small timber, fodder grass, fruits,
oilseeds and other forest produce from these same
plantations, introduce energy-efficient stoves, generate
paid employment for the rural poor, help to stabilize
the environment, and establish the Social
Forestry Wing of the State Forestry Department.
Potential project risks are that the free distribution
of seedlings might lead to some waste, that village
panchayats might lack sufficient leadership and incentive
to assume responsibility for village woodlots, and that
there might be resistance to the introduction of a
new type of stove. These risks would be minimized by the
careful monitoring and supervision of planting programs,
and public information and education efforts.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- tii -
Estimated Project
Cost: a/                                      (US Millions)
Local             Foreign           Total
Planting Programs                21.62               0.66            22.28
Staff Costs                       5.15                -               5.15
Operating Costs                   1.02               0.68             1.70
.Vehicles & Equipment             0.58                0.19            0.77
Buildings & Housing               1.47                -               1.47
Training & Fellowships           0.56                0.17             0.73
Research                          0.04               0.01             0.05
Stove Facilities                 0.05                 -               0.05
Monitoring & Evaluation           0.11               0.01             0.12
Sub-total                   32.60                1.72           32.32
Physical Contingencies            1.26               0.03             1.29
Price Contingencies               9.36               0.53             9.89
Total Project Cost           41.22                2.28           43.50
a/ Including an estimated US$1.3 million in taxes and duties.
(US$ Million)
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign   Total
IDA                                           26.7       2.3     29.0
GOI/GOWB                                      14.5        -       14.5
Total                              41.2       2.3     43.5
Estimated Disbursements: a/                          (USS Million)
FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88
Annual                            3.0   3.0   4.0   4.0   6.0   7.0    2.0
Cumulative                        3.0   6.0  1D.0  14.0  20.0  27.0   29.0
a! According to IDA's fiscal year.
Rate of Return:    About 28%.
Appraisal Report:  No. 3434-IN, dated September 15, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to India for SDR 25.8 million (US$29 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms, to help finance a social forestry program in the State of West Bengal.
The project would increase supplies of fuelwood and other forest produce in
rural areas, offer paid employment to the poorest segment of the population
and help to stabilize the environment. The Government of India (GOI) would
channel the proceeds of the credit to the Government of West Bengal (GOWB)
in acordance with GOI's standard terms and arrangements for financing State
development projects. The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3401-IN, dated April 15, 1981), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 16, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 688
million (in mid-1981) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Over the past 30 years, the share of agriculture in GDP at factor
cost (measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% to about 40%, while
the share of industry has increased from 15% to about 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the economic transformation that has led to sig-
nificantly higher productivity in some other developing countries.
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth of value-added in agriculture --
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Reports for the Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project (No.
P-3114-IN), dated August 25, 1981 and the Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation
Project (No. P-3115-IN), dated August 26, 1981.



-2-
2.1% per annum over the three decades -- has constrained overall growth, not
only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce
foreign exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial
value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and
1979/80. Over the same period, gross domestic savings more than doubled from
10% of GDP to 21.2%, while gross domestic investment rose from 10% of GDP to
just over 21.8%. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion of
domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s;
by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to below 3%. External
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms.
Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1%
at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Over the past 30 years as a whole, India has placed relatively little
emphasis on exports and has tended to pursue a strategy of import substitu-
tion. The volume growth of exports between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only
3.6% per annum, about the same as the volume growth of imports over the same
period. Between 1970 and 1977, however, India's terms of trade, which had
remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In
response, the Government introduced various policy measures designed to
stimulate exports. The volume of India's exports grew on average about 9%
per annum between 1971/72 and 1976/77. Although export growth has slowed in
recent years, due in large part to domestic supply constraints, this
experience demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible. While
expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed
to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective
export incentives played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 5.4%,
3.1% and 7.9% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a substan-
tially better growth performance than the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 4). However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 due both to
the severe drought which reduced agricultural production and to input con-
straints in other sectors. Agricultural output fell by about 16% in 1979/80.
Industrial production stagnated, largely due to shortfalls in the production
of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infrastructural
constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence of these
developments, the remarkable price stability that India had enjoyed after
1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79, with prices
increasing 21% during 1979/80.
7.        In 1980/81, the economy recovered substantially, so that real GDP
growth for the year was about 6%-7%. During the summer and fall of 1980
foodgrain prices rose, but more slowly than other prices and more slowly than
the drop in production in 1979/80 would have suggested. This was made pos-
sible through the drawdown of substantial buffer stocks built up by the
Government in years of good harvests. These stocks ensured adequate supplies
of grain to low-income groups in urban areas through the public distribution
system and also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employ-
ment program for low-income groups in rural areas. Aided by a normal monsoon
in the summer of 1980, agricultural production rose by about 17%-19%.  The



-3-
industrial sector recovered more slowly, with production in 1980/81 rising
only about 4% above the average for 1979/80, but output increased substan-
tially during the year so that production in April 1981 was about 9% higher
than in April 1980. The rise in prices slowed during the second half of
1980/81 so that by March 1981 the wholesale price index was 15.7% above its
level a year earlier.
8.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1980/81.
Fertilizer use reached about 5.6 million tons of nutrients in 1980/81, more
than double 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain
production grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer
demand, to eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per
year for the 15 years preceding 1976), and to reduce real foodgrain prices
for consumers. At the same time, India was able to build up substantial
foodgrain buffer stocks which made it possible to limit the effects of the
1979/80 drought, and to export a modest amount of grain in 1980. While the
management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a significant
achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the con-
tinued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The normal monsoon
of 1980/81 brought foodgrain production back to around the previous record
level of 132 million tons. While the performance of the recent past and the
probable future trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed
demand, the balance remains delicate and the need for foodgrain imports to
maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to
time. For example, some wheat imports are likely in 1981/82 to ensure ade-
quate build up of stocks. Programs to expand irrigation, strengthen exten-
sion and encourage the efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to
receive high priority.
9.        The Indian economy has shifted back from a situation of resource
surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of
resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken domestic savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. Marginal savings
rates have recently been well above 30% in the household sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is even more apparent
in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79, India's current account
deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP and to a
growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was due to favorable terms of
trade movements after 1977 and to rapidly growing workers' remittances as
well as to the growth of exports. In 1980/81, however, the balance of pay-
ments deteriorated sharply, with the current account deficit rising from
US$850 million in 1979/80 to nearly US$3.4 billion in 1980/81. In part this
was due to unique events during the year, such as the disruption of oil
production in the Northeast, which, though the flows resumed again in
February 1981, alone added over US$1 billion to the oil import bill. Com-
bined with unprecedented oil price increases, this caused the oil import bill
to rise by over 75%, to a level equivalent to three-fourths of India's mer-
chandise export earnings. The deficit on current account rose to 2% of GDP.
India was able to finance this gap through a substantial drawing on IMF
resources (the Trust Fund and the Compensatory Financing Facility), and



-4-
through an increase in aid disbursements and a modest drawdown in foreign
exchange reserves.
10.       The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at a high level of growth. In
particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to reduce the constraints in transportation and
other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide range
of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response to the
present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not reacted by
placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has left in place the
more liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export policy measures have improved the prospects
for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
11.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports --
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need
for additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institu-
tional infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive
natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal
and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and
sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
12.       A new Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) was approved in February 1981.
The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and power. Further-
more, the Plan reflects the Government's efforts to bring about the necessary
adjustments in the economy by emphasizing several priority areas. These
include: (i) expansion of exports and an investment program to support
increased production to replace imports of goods such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India produces competitively; (ii) an investment program
and policy framework for more efficient development and use of energy resour-
ces; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints
on production of basic industrial inputs; and (iv) continuing emphasis on the
development of agriculture.
13.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that the past programs
and policies have led to relatively low growth in certain crucial sectors,
namely power, coal, transport services, steel and cement. Potential output
growth in sectors which have benefitted from large investments in the recent



-5-
past may not materialize unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In
the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly
justified on grounds of comparative advantage, indicating an a priori case
for policies to promote further investment. In 1980/81 these commodities
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages; increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in user industries. In the case of sectors in which there is
little scope to import the final product -- power and transportation -- the
planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is
scope for improvement in the short-run performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new
capacity are essential for adequate growth in the medium term.
14.       Despite the relatively large investment programs for the develop-
ment of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to eliminate the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages, but
the situation improved substantially during the year so that power generation
in June 1981 was around 20% higher than a year earlier. India is entering
the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production program backed by
substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI is now accelerating
its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up prospective areas for
exploration by foreign firms; Prices of petroleum products were raised
substantially in 1980 and again in July 1981 to bring domestic prices into
line with world market prices, to raise resources for further oil and gas
development and to encourage efficient use of energy. India is now committed
to an expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro
potential and development of its transmission and distribution system. In
the coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
15.       Agricultural policies, development programs and secular trends all
seem favorable for sustaining the past agricultural growth during the 1980s.
India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million tons, without having
imported foodgrains during the year. This reflects the trends of the last
decade which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the
economy. Growing output, combined with the projected fall in the population
growth rate, suggest favorable long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and
demand balances. An occasional need to import grains, particularly wheat,
could arise, but if the efforts to develop agriculture over the past decade
are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the new Plan, persistent
shortage seems unlikely. This development could give rise to a range of
policy options including a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to
increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-income families, foodgrain
exports, and diversification to the production of other, higher-value crops.
16.       Foreign exchange reserves are providing a cushion that helps the
Government of India in short-term supply management. In March 1981, however,
gross reserves were $320 million lower than the level of a year earlier and,
in terms of import coverage, fell below the six-month level for the first
time since 1977. A much larger decline in the reserve level would have been
necessary in 1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing
Facilities, amounting to over US$1 billion, not been available. India's



-6-
reserves provide some limited scope for narrowing the financing gap over the
next few years, but successful management of the balance of payments will
depend mainly on improved export performance, on import replacement, on the
maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances, and on a moderation in
price increases for oil imports. While India's current account balance of
payments deficits are not expected to be large relative to the size of the
economy (e.g., on the order of two percent of GDP), the absolute amounts are
large and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be
available from normal concessional sources. Accordingly, India has recently
begun to undertake substantial borrowings in the financial markets to help
finance selected major investment projects.
17.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The
primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjust-
ment policies, although the aid community can and should play an important
role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
18.       Preliminary results from the March 1, 1981 Census, combined with
1971 Census figures adjusted for under-enumeration, suggest that the popula-
tion growth rate declined from 2.3% p.a. in the late 1960s to about 2% at
present. The rate of increase of population is expected to continue falling
to around 1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. While the growth rate appears
to be declining slowly, the 1981 Census population estimate was substantially
higher than previous Government projections. The 1981 Census data are still
incomplete but preliminary reports indicate that the rise in life expectancy
was more than anticipated, suggesting that, on average, Indians can expect to
live five years longer than they did a decade ago. This no doubt reflects
improved availability of food and health services. This implies, however, an
even greater need to reduce the birth rate to bring about the needed reduc-
tion in the rate of growth of population. The Census results, therefore,
re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen a broad range of
family planning activities to develop a wider clientele and to provide that
clientele with a professional, technically competent advisory service which
can provide the full variety of available birth prevention methods. The new
Plan continues the high priority given to these efforts in earlier Plans.
The ambition of its targets - implying a rise in the proportion of protected
couples in the reproductive age group from its present estimated level of
about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85 - seems fully justified. Such targets imply
a serious long term commitment to moderating the population growth rate
through an improved family planning program.
19.       Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line (estimated at about US$114 and
US$132 per capita per year for rural and urban areas, respectively).



-7-
Improvements in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large
extent on the overall growth of the economy; the circumstances require
increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm rural
employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem in large part from market forces which,
however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government policies
and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The declining
trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects such develop-
ments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster implemen-
tation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty
through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the
supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encourag-
ing evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to
enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
20.      Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 141 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$9,323 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,168 million had been
repaid, and US$4,494 million was still undisbursed as of June 30, 1981. Bank
Group disbursements to India in fiscal year 1981 totalled US$962 million,
representing an increase of about 32% over the previous year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of June 30, 1981, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.      Since 1959, IFC has made 24 commitments in India totalling US$148.7
million, of which US$22.2 million has been repaid, US$27.7 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$91.3 million, US$82.3 million
represents loans and US$9.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of June 30, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
22.      In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, dairying, and forestry are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



-8-
23.        The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program
for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects
benefitting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fer-
tilizer sector assists India in the more efficient provision of another key
input in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply,
sewerage, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
24.        The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sec-
tors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
25.        India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 10% in 1980/81 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of June 30, 1981, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$1,742 million, of which US$874 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$868 million.
26.        Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 49%, 36% and 44%, respectively, in
1980/81. On March 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.2 billion or 36% (IDA's US$5.3 billion and IBRD's US$0.9 billion).
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.  In 1980/81, about
18.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9--
PART III - FORESTRY IN INDIA AND WEST BENGAL
Forestry in India
27.       India's forest lands are substantial but the demands placed on
them are great. About 23% of the total land area, or 75 million hectares,
is classified as forest. Annual domestic roundwood requirements by the
year 2000 are projected to be about 290 iillion m3 (fuelwood 225 million
m and industrial roundwood 65 million m ). Continuation of existing
plantation programs (about 20,000 ha Innually) should fulfill the demand
for industrial hardwood (52 millioln m per year) and about half that for
coniferous roundwood (13 million m per year total) dut fuelwood is
expected to remain in short supply. If 150 million m of fuelwood con-
tinues to be supplied annually from existing resources, provision would
have to be made for an additional 75 million m3 by the year 2000 if total
demand is to be met. Limited availability of land and financial resources
precludes the annual planting program of approximately 450,000 ha that
this would require; in the coming decade, plantings of 225,000 ha annually
are a more realistic target.
28.       India's strategy for forestry development reflects the need both
to develop production forestry programs to supply the growing demand of
the domestic wood products industry and to develop social forestry (also
referred to as community forestry) programs to supply fuelwood, fodder,
small timber and minor forest produce to the rural population. In order
to carry out the required programs, the National Commission on Agriculture
recommended that each State reorganize its Forest Department into two
separate wings, one to supervise traditional production forestry and
wildlife activities, and the other to develop community forests. The
Forest Departments of Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh were the first to create
community forestry wings. Other States are following suit as their com-
munity forestry programs grow.
The State of West Bengal
29.       The State of West Bengal, with an area of 88,000 km2, has a
population of 54 million (1981), of which 75% live in rural areas. Until
the 1970's, the State had the highest level of industrial development and
per capita income in India; at present, the State has the second largest
industrial base in the country. Despite this industrial orientation,
which is concentrated in the Calcutta area, agriculture plays a
predominant role in the State's economy, accounting for 40% of its income
and providing 60% of its employment. Forests constitute only 13.5% of the
land area (1.18 million ha of a total area of 8.78 million ha) and are
distributed unevenly over the State. Population density averages 614
persons per km2, second only to the State of Kerala.  Slightly more than



-10-
25% of the population belongs to the traditionally disadvantaged groups:
scheduled castes (19.9%) and scheduled tribes (5.9%). The rural popula-
tion, more than half of which was below the rural poverty line (US$114 per
person per year) in 1977/78, is spread over nearly 42,000 villages, each
with an average population of about 900. Population pressures and the
increase in livestock (currently estimated at 19 million) have neces-
sitated a continual search for food, fuel and fodder resulting in indis-
criminate tree-cutting and increasing erosion. The southern and western
parts of the State now have large tracts of barren wastelands and the
northern forested areas are increasingly depredated.
30.       Commercial energy (coal, electricity, oil) meets about 20% of
West Bengal's total energy demand, estimated at ten million tons per year
(tpy) of fuelwood equivalent (FWE). Fuelwood and charcoal (55%), dung
cake (25%) and crop waste (20%) account for the remaining 80% of fuel
requirements. Rural electrification has reached 35% of rural villages in
the State but at present is rarely used for cooking. It is estimated that
in rural areas 80% of the domestic fuel is collected by women and children
who must often spend half their day foraging. In larger settlements,
fuelwood is a traded commodity with prices ranging from Rs 120-180 per
ton. Cow dung costs about Rs 120 per ton in rural areas, though it is
generally sold as dung cake at Rs 0.10 each or at Rs 1.75 per cubic foot.
The cost of using dung as fuel instead of as organic manure is high.
Assuming that an application of 5 tons per ha increases yields of
foodgrains by 300 kg per ha, the 4.8 million tpy (2.0 million tons of FWE)
currently burnt annually in West Bengal amounts to more than 288,000 tons
of foodgrain production foregone.
31.     The West Bengal Panchayat Act of 1973 introduced a three-tier
system of panchayats (elected governing bodies) in the State, at the
village, block (sub-district), and district level, which have undertaken a
wide range of rural development activities including irrigation, rural
works, conservation and cooperative farming, food-for-work and flood
reconstruction programs. A number of social forestry programs have been
started by the panchayats, including the distribution of free seedlings,
tree planting competitions and training camps to motivate and educate
local communities.
Forestry in West Bengal
32.       The natural forests of West Bengal may be grouped into seven
major types ranging from alpine forests in the Himalayas to mangrove
forests in the Ganges-Brahmaputra delta. In recent years they have
produced annually an average of 150,000 m3 of timber, 1 million tons of
fuelwood, 73,000 tons of bamboo (a third of which was trade quality) and
22,000 tons of fodder grass, in addition to a wide variety of other minor
forest products such as gums, dried leaves, edible flowers, fruits and



-1 1-
oilseeds. The forests support a number of industries: approximately 800
sawmills, 3 papermills, 760 tanneries, 34 plywood factories, 4 match
factories and numerous furniture workshops. They provide considerable
benefits to marginal farmers and landless laborers in the form of free
grazing, fuelwood, fruit, flowers, honey and poles, as well as bamboo
(either free or at subsidized rates) for cottage industries, and tradi-
tionally have been regarded as an apparently inexhaustible supply of free
produce. The unfettered demands of local people for forest products for
their daily needs and for grazing lands for their livestock are resulting
in the serious depletion of forest lands. Shortages of primary forest
products -- especially fuelwood, building poles and fodder -- are severe
and heightened by the growth in population. Productivity of much of the
forest estate is low, the result not only of aridity and low soil fer-
tility but also of past degradation through illegal felling, overgrazing,
burning and a lack of understanding of forest conservation. The
nationalization of private forests in 1953 brought all forests under State
control. Over the past two decades, the West Bengal Forestry Department
(WBFD), which manages the State's forests, has expended considerable
effort to improve productivity by forest rehabilitation, improved manage-
ment and greater control of illegal degradation. Although these efforts
are helping to alleviate the situation, the magnitude of the problem and
the lopsided geographical distribution of existing forest resources are
such that the long-term solution lies in the afforestation of new areas
such as road, rail and canal reserves, and other wastelands.
33.       WBFD is headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF) who is
also the Chief Wildlife Warden. He is presently supported by one Addi-
tional CCF,one Assistant CCF and five Conservators of Forest (CF) in
charge of Soil Conservation, Planning, Research and Development, Wildlife
and Social Forestry. (With the implementation of this project, the Social
Forestry circle is being expanded into a Social Forestry Wing (SFW) headed
by a second Additional CCF.) At field level there are now three opera-
tional circles, each staffed by a CF and each encompassing 4-6 divisions
(16 in all). Each division has 4-12 range offices headed by a Forest
Ranger who is responsible for all technical matters associated with the
establishment of plantations. Each Ranger covers 3-4 beats, each staffed
by a Forester who is responsible for the establishment of plantations
within his beat and the supervision of 3-4 Forest Guards employed to
protect the forests.
34.       There are three levels of formal forestry training.  Forest
Officers (professionals who work at the district level) are science
graduates who take a two-year course at an All-India Forestry College
operated by the Central Government. Range Officers are science graduates
or Foresters who train for two years at the GOI Forest Rangers College.
Foresters and Deputy Rangers are Forest Guards who train for one year at
the West Bengal Forest School. There are long waiting lists at both the



-1 2-
Forestry College and the Forest School and there is currently no training
school for Forest Guards, who have a secondary school education.
35.     The State has been active in the improvement of forest reserves
through the establishment of man-made forests which totalled 190,000 ha of
plantations by the end of 1980. Working through local panchayats, WBFD
has also engaged in limited social forestry programs, assisting in tree
planting, establishing of 1,200 ha of communal plantations and distribut-
ing 5 million seedlings for individual planting in the 1976-80 period.
In 1974, the West Bengal Forest Development Corporation was established to
manage State hill forests and State-owned forest industries.
Bank Group Role in the Sector
36.       In early 1978, in recognition of the need to expand social
forestry activities, GOI and the Bank Group agreed to examine the pos-
sibilities of developing projects in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar
Pradesh Project was appraised in November 1978 and a credit for US$23
million approved in June 1979; the Gujarat Project was appraised in March
1979 and a credit of US$37 million approved in December 1979. Both
projects are making good progress, though implementation of village wood-
lot schemes has been slower than expected. Private planting during 1980
was almost double project targets, however.
37.     The Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 609-IN; February 26, 1976) is the initial phase of a project aimed at
the establishment of a forest-based industry in Bastar District. The
feasibility study, financed under the Credit and completed in November
1980, recommended the establishment of an integrated industrial complex
including a sawmill and a pulp mill. GOI is currently reviewing the
proposals and may propose a project for Bank Group financing. The Kandi
Watershed and Area Development Project (Ln. 1897-IN, September 12, 1980),
involves reforestation and pasture development over some 18,000 ha of
Punjab's Siwalik Hills.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The project was prepared by the Government of West Bengal.  It
was appraised in January/February 1981. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. in August 1981. The Governments of India and West Bengal
were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. C. Ranga Rao, Direc-
tor, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, GOI. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 3434-IN) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. A Supplementary Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.



-13-
Project Description
39.       The project's primary objective would be to increase the supply
of fuelwood for domestic consumption in rural areas through the estab-
lishment of 93,000 ha of plantations throughout the State. Secondary
objectives would be to provide poles, bamboo, small timber, fodder grass,
fruits, oilseeds and other minor forest products, and to introduce
improved stoves as a fuelwood conservation measure. In order to carry out
this program, the project would provide for the establishment of a Social
Forestry Wing in the West Bengal Forest Department, as well as training
facilities, vehicles, housing and equipment for SFW staff. Over a
six-year period the project would:
(a) establish 6,000 ha of village woodlots, 20,000 ha of strip
plantings along roads, canals and railroads, and 52,000 ha
of farm forestry on private (42,000 ha) and public (10,000 ha)
wastelands;
(b) reforest 15,000 ha of degraded forests;
(c) develop nurseries to provide planting stock;
(d) construct seed storage godowns;
(e) introduce about 10,000 energy-efficient stoves;
(f) construct a Forest Guard School and expand the existing West
Bengal Forest School;
(g) establish a SFW with emphasis on its extension, public rela-
tions, research and monitoring and evaluation activities; and
(h) provide housing, vehicles, equipment and training to support
project staff.
40.     Village Woodlots (6,000 ha).  Several schemes involving different
levels of community participation would be introduced on State land leased
to village panchayats. In scheme one (approximately 2,500 ha), SFW would
plant and maintain, and the local panchayat would protect and manage, a
one-ha demonstration plantation in each participating village. After two
years, if the village panchayat had successfully protected and managed
its plantation, it could opt for either scheme two or scheme three. In
scheme two (approximately 1,750 ha), the village panchayats would receive
from SFW an interest-free loan of Rs 2,000 per ha, for a maximum of two
ha, to cover the cost of planting, maintaining and protecting the planta-
tion. SFW would recover its loan from the sale of harvestable produce,
estimated to occur seven years after planting. In scheme three
(1,750 ha), SFW would establish, maintain and protect a maximum of two ha



-14-
per village and recover all its direct costs after sale of the first or
second harvest. SFW would assist village panchayats in locating waste-
lands which could be used as demonstration plots, in determining the
number and types of species to be planted, in conducting a community
education program to publicize the benefits of social forestry in general
and of the village woodlot program in particular, and in deciding whether
to opt for scheme two or three after the successful completion of scheme
one. In all three schemes, village panchayats would not be charged for
the seedlings used and would receive all forest produce after SFW recovers
its direct costs in schemes two and three. Direct costs of SFW are
expected to be recovered from the schemes two and three within the first
two years of harvest (which are the seventh and eighth years after the
establishment).
41.    Strip Plantations (20,000 ha).   SFW would assume full respon-
sibility for establishing plantations alongside roads, canals and railways
and would work with the local panchayats as they gradually assume respon-
sibility for managing the plantations. Villagers who live adjacent to
strip plantations would be allowed to collect grass, fodder, fallen wood
and other minor produce from these areas in return for cooperating with
SFW staff in protecting these plantations. At year eight, SFW would
recover its direct costs from the sale of forest produce, and the cash
balance would be used to establish additional strip plantations. There-
after, the village panchayat would assume responsibility for managing the
plantation and for distributing its produce.
42.     Farm Forestry (52,000 ha).  Three schemes involving different
levels of farmer participation would be introduced on either private or
State-leased waste lands. In scheme one (22,000 ha), marginal farmers
with small holdings (less than 2 ha) would be given free seedlings to
plant trees on wastelands and a financial subsidy to cover part of the
farmer's labor costs. Farmers receiving at least 50 and no more than 750
seedlings would qualify for a cash payment of 40 paise per seedling (equiv-
alent to Rs 300 for 750 seedlings or 0.5 ha of private plantation) which
would be paid in three yearly installments. Second and third year pay-
ments would be made only for trees that had survived. In scheme two
(10,000 ha), the Land Reform Commissioner, in accordance with established
procedures for land distribution, would apportion parcels of land to
landless farm laborers who would benefit from free seedling distribution
and a cash incentive similar to scheme one. In scheme three (20,000 ha),
SFW would distribute 50 million free seedlings to farmers for private
planting.
43.     Reforestation of Degraded State-Owned Forests (15,000 ha).  Casual
labor would be employed by SFW to establish and maintain plantations on
degraded State forest reserves. Nearby villagers would be allowed to
collect 25% of the harvestable produce free of cost. The collection of
the produce would be organized by the WBFD.



-1 5-
44.     Plantation Design.  Twelve plantation models have been developed
to meet different objectives and site conditions. Planting targets would
be agreed at State and local levels. A wide variety of species would be
planted depending on local needs, plantation objectives and ecological
conditions. Seventy-five to ninety percent of the trees planted would
produce fuelwood or poles. Seed godowns and permanent and temporary
nurseries would be established to supplement those already in existence.
Provision would be made for protecting the plantations from insects,
grazing and fire, for fertilizing the seedlings to ensure high survival
and growth rates, and for weeding and other tending operations.
45.     Project Implementation.  The project would establish a Social
Forestry Wing (SFW) in West Bengal Forest Department (WBFD). An Addi-
tional Chief Conservator of Forests has been appointed to head SFW, he
would be directly responsible to the CCF for all social forest activities.
Two forestry circles would be created to handle its social forestry works.
One circle would be established not later than December 31, 1981 and the
other not later than December 31, 1983 (Section 2.09 of the Project Agree-
ment). Some staff would be transferred to SFW from other positions within
WBFD.  New staff would consist primarily of (i) 360 Forest Extension
Workers (FEW) who would be based at the block level and make regular and
frequent field visits to supervise the plantation programs, and (ii) 1,000
village motivators who would be based at the village level and whose main
function would be to promote the farm forestry scheme, but who would also
carry out simple administrative activities and provide a link between the
village and the FEW. In addition, two special support units, one for
public relations and the other for monitoring and evaluation, would also
be established. The Public Relations Unit would be headed by a Chief
Publicity Officer and each Division would have a Divisional Public Rela-
tions Officer to coordinate publicity and dissemination of information.
The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, headed by a Deputy Conservator of
Forests and supported by statistical staff and enumerators, would monitor
project targets and seedling survival rates, assess villagers' acceptance
of social forestry programs, conduct project evaluations and prepare
bi-annual progress reports.  The Chief Publicity Officer and the Deputy
Conservator of Forests would be appointed not later than December 31, 1981
(Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement). A mid-term evaluation of the
project, with particular regard to the impact of farm forestry and the
implementation of the village woodlots and strip plantation schemes, would
be submitted to the Association by March 31, 1984 (Section 2.04(c) of the
Project Agreement). Locally-recruited consultants would advise GOWB on
survey designs and monitoring systems, and on communications and exten-
sion. (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement).
46.     The research program would be under the direction of the CF and
focus on both technical and socio-economic studies. By December 31, 1981,
the project would employ a stove technology consultant to design a program



-16-
of introducing energy-efficient stoves to villagers (Section 2.08(i) of
the Project Agreement). The stove technology exists in India but it needs
to be adapted to local needs. The project would provide for the construc-
tion of 10,000 improved stoves to be demonstrated in at least 2,000 vil-
lages over the project period.
47.     Coordination of social forestry activities with other government
programs at district and State levels would be achieved through the estab-
lishment of District Committees and of a State Policy Committee which
would also determine overall State social forestry policy. These Commit-
tees would be established by April 30, 1982 (Section 2.11 of the Project
Agreement).
48.       Field level staff would be expected to live near their work and
be sufficiently mobile to function effectively. Although GOWB housing
policy encourages the use of rented accommodations, the limited rental
housing in rural areas often makes that impossible. Consequently the
project would construct 220 housing units for field personnel and also
provide a limited number of vehicles (cars, vans and motorcycles). GOWB
would ensure additional housing or rent allowances as necessary (Section
2.10 of the Project Agreement).
49.     Training.  The need to provide a Forest Guard Training School
becomes more acute as WBFD expands its social forestry program and the
traditional duties of forest guards change. The project would provide for
the construction and equipping of the school, which would accommodate 60
students per session for a five-month certification course, and the run-
ning costs for five years. The project would also provide for the expan-
sion of the West Bengal Forest School through the construction of a hostel
for an additional 40 students and staff quarters for additional teaching
staff, and for the construction of additional training facilities for FEW.
FEW would be trained in basic forestry by WBFD instructors, and in exten-
sion techniques by Agricultural Department staff. Training of FEW would
last eight weeks and would be supplemented by additional one-day monthly
orientation sessions. Three weeks of training would be given motivators
at the divisional level and supplemented by one-day monthly orientation
sessions. The project would also provide fourteen 8-week overseas fellow-
ships for senior SFW staff in management and forestry extension. In
addition, a local consultant in communication and extension, to be
appointed by December 31, 1981, would help design an extension program
and organize short training courses for senior SFW staff (Section 2.08
(ii) of the Project Agreement).
Proj ct Costs and Financing
50.       The total estimated cost of the proposed project is US$43.5
million, of which US$1.3 million are duties and taxes and US$2.3 million



-17-
are foreign exchange expenditures. Physical contingencies of 5% for
nurseries and plantings, and 10% for housing, research and seed testing
have been applied; price contingencies are calculated at 15% for 1980/81,
9.0% for 1981/82, 8.5% for 1982/83, 7.5% for 1983/84 to 1985/86 and 6%
thereafter. The major cost components, net of contingencies, are plant-
ings (US$22.3 million), incremental staff (US$5.1 million), incremental
operating costs (US$1.7 million), buildings and housing (US$1.5 million),
and vehicles and equipment (US$0.8 million).
51.       The proposed IDA credit of US$29 million would finance about 69%
of total project cost excluding duties and taxes. The balance of the
project cost would be borne by GOI and GOWB. In order to ensure an early
project start, retroactive financing, estimated at US$1 million, would be
provided for expenditures after January 1, 1981. These expenditures,
which relate primarily to the 1981 planting season which starts in July,
would be for nurseries, advance work on land preparation and plantation
protection, and necessary staff and equipment.
Procurement and Disbursements
52.     Direct plantation works (US$22.3 million), including nursery
expenditures and farra forestry, would be scattered over a wide area and
carried out over different periods of time, making contracts following
competitive bidding impractical. Nursery works, including the production
of seedlings, would be carried out by force account of SFW. Land prepara-
tion, planting and maintenance of village plantations would also be car-
ried out by SFW with varying degrees of participation by local panchayats.
Materials such as fencing wire, tools and fertilizers would be procured
under local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with established local
procedures that are satisfactory to IDA. Contracts for civil works
(US$1.5 million) would be small and widely dispersed in time and place and
therefore not suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB); they
would be let following LCB or be carried out by force account in accord-
ance with GOWB procedures that are satisfactory to IDA. Design and super-
vision of housing and building construction would be carried out by WBFD
or the Public Works Department. Vehicles (US$0.3 million) would be pur-
chased over three years; the importance of adequate maintenance and
availability of spare parts would necessitate the purchase of locally-made
vehicles of types already used by government departments. Thus, procure-
ment would be by LCB under existing government procedures which are
acceptable to IDA. Imported research equipment would be required in small
lots and would not, therefore, be suitable for procurement under ICB
procedures. These items and other miscellaneous equipment (totalling
US$0.5 million) would be bulked wherever possible and procured through LCB
unless valued at less than US$20,000 when they would be purchased by
prudent shopping through trade channels. Stoves would be built departmen-
tally by SFW.



-18-
53.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as follows: 100%
against training costs and consultant services, and against stove improve-
ment; 100% against foreign expenditures and 70% against local expenditures
for equipment and vehicles; 80% against monitoring and evaluation costs;
70% against civil works, planting expenditures, operating costs and local
expenditures for equipment and vehicles; and 55% against staff salaries.
Disbursements for all force account work, salaries, local training, civil
works contracts less than Rs 300,000 and other procurement involving
expenditures of less than Rs 150,000 each for locally-procured vehicles
and equipment would be made against statements of expenditure. These
certificates of expenditure would be audited annually and the audit report
submitted to IDA. Supporting documentation for these expenditures would
be retained by the State Government for inspection in the course of
project review missions. Disbursements against expenditures for all other
items would be fully documented.
54.     Benefits and Risks.  The increase in forest produce expected under
the project would benefit a large portion of the State's population.
Enhanced employment opportunities, cash incentives for private planting
and the right to gather free fodder, fruit and other minor produce would
favor the rural poor in particular. From project year 12, the average
annual production of fuelwood from all project plantations would be about
325,000 tons. This would be sufficient to satisfy the needs of about 1.63
million people at the current annual consumption level of 160 kg of fuel-
wood per person. Fruit production would be sufficient to provide 10 kg
annually for about seven million people. The increase in fuelwood produc-
tion would be equivalent to an annual saving of 600,000 tons of dung cake
which could be utilized as an organic manure to increase agricultural
production. This would result in an annual increase of 36,000 tons of
foodgrains. The use of 10,000 improved stoves would result in savings of
at least 5,000 tons of fuelwood annually.
55.     Over the project period, 93,000 ha of idle or underutilized land
would be brought into productive use. The project would generate about
15 million work days, equivalent to 9,000 full-time jobs for six years.
In practice, most project work would be seasonal, benefitting mainly the
unemployed who are available for short-term work. The major environmental
impact of project plantations is expected to be on soil conservation,
improvement to micro-climates and, to some extent, the restoration of soil
fertility.
56.     The project's quantifiable benefits are the increases in the
production of fuelwood, fodder, timber, bamboo, fruits and other minor
forest produce. Over a thirty-year period, the overall rate of return for
the project would be about 28%.
57.     The project faces no major risk in terms of an unsatisfactory rate
of return since it could withstand improbable adverse affects such as cost



-19-
increases of 100% and price or production declines of 50% and still show a
favorable rate of return. There is a potential risk that free distribu-
tion of seedlings might lead to some waste; currently available statistics
regarding their survival rate are inadequate. For this reason, MEU would
monitor the actual survival rate and would study the overall impact of
free distribution of seedlings. There is a risk that village panchayats
may not be sufficiently well motivated or organized to manage village
woodlots and that the improved stoves may not be adequately received.
These risks would be minimized through the project's programs of educa-
tion, training, extension work and information dissemination. Overall
project risks are low.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of West Bengal, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.     Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
60.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
September 15, 1981






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRA0ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      MOST RECENT ESTIHATE-
TOTAL           3287.6                                 MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5               1960  7b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   60.0       100.0    190.0               232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     111.1        152.5    241.8              499.4                  1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, FIID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0    547569.0  659217.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      22.0              17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      974.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION 1S REACHED                  2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      132.3        166.6    200.5              153.6                   373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7        308.0     355.8             360.3                  2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.1         42.4      41.1              37.4                    39.8
15-64 YRS.                         56.8         54.7      56.0              59.2                    56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1          2.9       2.9               3.5                     3.5
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8          2.3       2.1               2.1                     2.3
URBAN                              2.5          3.3       3.3               3.4                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.2         40.3      34.0              27.7                    29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     22.7         17.4      13.5              10.2                     7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1          2.8       2.3               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0        3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         12.0      22.6              20.4                    44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0        102.0      93.0             107.1                   123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
:'EQUIREMENTS)                  93.0         92.0      91.0              98.6                   112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0         51.0      50.0              56.9                    62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0         15.0      13.0              14.2                    19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     27.1         20.4      14.8              14.6                     4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.2          47.5      51.9              57.7                    64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       134.0     125.0              89.1                    50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      33.0              30.1                    45.9
URBAN                               ..         60.0      83.0              65.8                    68.0
RURAL                                ..         6.0      20.0              20.1                    34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT-
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         18.0      20.0              17.6                    53.4
URBAN                               ..         85.0      87.0              71.0                    71.0
RURAL                               ..          1.0       2.0               4.8                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4/c    4889.0   3617.4              3857.7                  4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     963O.d7-   8296.5    6429.4              6411.8                  2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.0/d    1612.9    1311.1             1132.8                   588.5
URBAN                               ..           ..    363.5              322.3                   579.6
RURAL                                ..          ..  10429.1             5600.5                  1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2          5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2          5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2          5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6          2.8
URBAN                              2.6          2.8
RURAL                              2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - TOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATIUN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0        73.0       79.0               85.9                    99.8
MALE                  80.0         90.0      94.0                94.4                  100.6
FDIALE                40.0         56.0      63.0               64.5                    98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 20.0         26.0       28.0               38.0/aa                53.5
MALE                  30.0         36.0      37.0               34.67;i;i               58.4
FEMALE                10.0         15.0      18.0               18.0/1aa                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)   8.0            1.0       1.0                3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0        41.0       41.0               32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                           16.0        21.0         ..               19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.4      36.0               52.8                    86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7          1.1       1.3                1.7                    12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.9        21.5       32.5               35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.0          0.0       1.0                3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         16.0      16.9               14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            6.3       3.8                3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  256699.4
FEtALE (PERCENT)                    31.2        32.4       31.9               29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0        74.0       71.0               69.8                    50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0        11.0       11.0               14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.6        40.3       38.9               39.7                    40.2
MALE                                  58.0         52.6      51.3               51.5                    49.8
FEMALE                                28.2        27.1       25.7               23.3                    31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1       1.1                1.1                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3/e    22.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.9/e    49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6.77T      7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.27_    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     132.0              134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     114.0              111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                  249.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       40.3               41.7                    21.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       50.7               51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
OPtItfTIONOOFi S~CIAL. ITNIOCATORIS
Ntoer:  Although cIt data arc        I Ir'ultor  sourCe" gam ll "Iodgol the most  -tshottto ndrlale    tsoudas  h   oe   that they ney rotb helote-
racinoally .d_patoIoIo_eu_ ofte  akofao dorduod                     ltoo      .ead  -ccpro use  b  diffeetovtist   olotolt   ae                                 O   aaae
thrats  usfu  to decor oho .rde-o aOoooue   o   ct   ocd.alcoahrfrtoo                                 ao   tfrns    ieeem ua trias.
The,eerrt                                   ..u..ae.l.th   srecooy group of  le sahboc  a-atry end (2)Ifs .. coutr  grou  eth  -v..abat hogher sraeIncome thao  the  oo.. ry troop
ofthe  o9ttcctotoon fc"aua   upu   otl                                          -        hluptee   r oer  'toddle  income Atot  Africa and ttdls1 test' tsr~h.... because Ofsrne
ffi-uiua  it-nii.e      To the reflehecegropdate tht a-eoga  eta  y alanloti-e-ghsad   nttbestId .es. for eth trdtoetr snd shorn onLyue
coy atot,  f thecoaottes ta  grophba  trIo   u   che   ordl    - Elatar.d             g ticteovrea   c..rn..a  moghe ondlok   edpnd        yoth      eilahility of acts
acdI__oobot,autoe-tctoconfceaioae                                      -nuo        lettdraorutoro                Tes   cres  otry attl itosptrthelaeo
-t  todla ..ot- o. . ..c50c  rt    otr  un  ----
LOAD AltA (thoanand  -qa.)tj9aorcetsloofuI-  -I,Ibha.  to0d total - Papoat-co  (tata
Door' - Dutut rortac   -oa  cpr-Ot   iard  cta  -od inloll  uocr.bchr  and rureil divided  by titer resca five,  oehar of hospital tedsl
Aeuloarel - toone  fdt sttao-re    sd  eyre flyatpcrorcly                                             arolaiaO  phth ttd ptIutegeI Ra_Il rd spectrtreid hospital codi-
totucyt  pont-e-    utIkto  ardi lha    tId_c  anto   furt1o._  107  dat.-                            hetcto   ceners    Onptte  r                   chfbet   pert_niyetafa
by at             'het  t  pptcher .  E-bslfehbmreso  protldc pg  nielycusoo-
itt POP Pu.elTu flOff      itde     c     etri  tertethtpte.cl                                       io1 ares rete nut I_tiaded.  total hasiae.oeor    nluehat
1070, att 1979 deto..                                                                                    ee0  d toedintotat1   nure   mudete.      ec. totto   otfe_  tI-cttet ace_ ta
totRYi  CONStPTIPONO Pf0 CAPIDA  -        yjoof con-oplioc af  do.eoalneg   falcoi- U puposes .rhe    tsltahs lirotutf AldIs1 petnoIpal   Iaenlhoptee
ao   lgnie    atote    -eoa       Iteo   hyp.f.-,  Iu..t. and g           heoter  elo-sd ral   bmtsnboto   oa  hs el  adsdclan   aeet
tOothy) tokl  raea   ol  qoaen    c   atta    06,of, a,d 1979.. certe ..Opostd  bopo- r   rlddolponoenota
LTULLATTOI _E!D_v_1TA_s1AI1S1lCs ~~~~~~~~fnat  horpisair divided hy toe nombec at beds.
Ton   otlaho    it-ia thoosardat - ho tO  July 0; lOll, 1i70, o-d 1970                              HOCofiti
dccc.                                                                                               ceee   i.e  of Hoasehold (rsr   e   othll-ttt   ttn   c    uo 
Driac  _oaatu _rrc           of tuta1f - Roat ta  f orb-  to totl-        poair                         Ahrsbdorttsfagepof individual sh. share loing.  quera
dfnncdeffroioo"u  of Ialbcecla  saY affect corPat-bliI, of daaa-terrinrae                                                       oce   or   dga  may ce ny retl hr itolrded he
amecgtoutcooe;o  01, tOl. uod 191 data,the house hold fo  saisiclporpres..
"aIo.a.... Or -earlil  - CaTeut popuhotioc Proerc-   acehosd on1t9e   f  eer   e   oo   nciuba.adrsa  acold oocooo
totl 1uplaoo  bY acc ao l 0  ad tt  tcre  o    o   rtloyrts                                     eliorge   rae-titOheO.  Drellingee-cludennpcmoottotarad
feettt ftp  cuordlog  tr urooe unoef so  pato   fefi  pleaog   peciftruaote,.d -1d.ll.g
aoM   r_rto',u   tIoads  for ptoofottoc Purposes                                                  Adju-hed Etroleenth .ltios
httuurp_oatoo-foaecatorory poyholeti  thnoe IIu I,r-oth niuca                                  rhlosho     er.rl   n   femae    Gos  coa,roead t..act
the hoert rata  to  ,-Ia to rho dosofh rot, sod IItotteoarrooter-                                       orIIdr  f          ogreet th  prtary f.eral as percentags   f..espcou
troiscostao  .   htoIn cItoe  on -ly Ifoer ferolitop roI    dectore to                          prmr   cofee   ua  toa   oret                     uue   btdecr eesd 6-li
the rpl-oemet taun  of uoiltetcIe...d-coorte yh- -0 ac  ceerr uopn                                              hut adj.stldfo  dfrnt   rths of .pru..aty edac_tit_  fur
alomtrp fre   urt -natl. DbsttThe _            yytrtor..osorn.u.o.h.treoi                                               adcafcerflsntadxeelt   pcto
et    IIor   an  III basis of tho pru1ectad    arrtrotlts of thr  -otaoo                                o     oe pupiLI are brIuc or aoou  thte  flfuialnouo                r
ioto d:yeaclOf, ooltherae   P.rdoTtfaterlt                       Cotrpae..udapotc-cv                                                olodenePauedcho;rudr
sart level.                                                           elouacouorequlrtr ~~~~~~~it-rot fou  yearnl af apprevd prlnory ior or
Paoottuooy   r,~tolo  s  cahn   -The peso uhot  tsot-_y populasirt                           proider RenMto, or_t fao  ,  r   etce I           Iluofntotu               o    ot
1tota  Iocea, lOid    ol  o  1070 dote.           ol-tl(0   .l-                                       ccfudLRtechlul,l              -asrll.onf ce   r~athr    pet                  aed
o1i70000,  070oo 9107    data                                                            Putlct          _1t raIo-eioylm    etde-Ttisoat   ouldt
PopultionOar oeuctne forceel -  hIldre. (0-14  eaa  ocnham-k-ga  I-                              ctapul  rtlc   toi                  Oddb   o Tectut teacher  to.l the
hJ.eas)  a    eIreId  10 years. am -oe) -t P.....anear  of uid-yna  putt-                                cutrrlc    eetII.
lat ool  001, lO 9l aud 1070  data                                                              Adult Irerp1ychl-  Dyrroe-l        - d-Literate  dultt (ohble to rood and aritef
Puueinmohet   rrno               utoOoetreuot  of b-ta  po,o-                                 COtl'TTlO
letat  o  lOI- 16091-7   aod 1070-7.                                                           PuaoorPr---             horn  ttlrttf-Paanrtemosrsrtr
Prude t     -c  C too    fetto....odf  - On... ItIIue boethn  yer thoos..od of  itd-...r             cars sating  lets theneight perrene; encludesanoate                            - onr id
"Poptliol; 0000. 0070, and 1070 data.                                                                  itflteep  - ontle
Prud  Deeth Rltst  (ccc ch .o..ud) - ivvo1 deatha par thootedo  of sod-parr                           Radi tiatovr   orjhosr                              Allloo    bt,rpe  oP r-eluer  for radto
p      1uftlr;lot  1070, cod t979 dais.bosute t cera   public prr thk..a.od ofyruahueotdent
OroraOe_rd-ri-o rot-vrgeel                     o   agtestoa Ay_11 teat to                               1itteunala-etore   to'i  ucorid        edhryanumreie.tral                       di.ee
harro-alearruduccor  pFelolft Iheeoer eItsp                      enooa-apeifitcfe-                     areme   offct; datoaToeeIecaot yeo..enoyu bt -euponah   i -tot
Iduty rtes; tIt_cll  lioryo_ raoetog nsdtrg ho 19tD, 1070, rod 107.9n   atof    btmidlcrtc
P-rstolt   . tl orlaoccoc    toa   r ans - Auoouat. nahert ofuercn                                        PT  eter  to hoasolptaahAff     V  eeoec  o  bcoad-attt
of bth-dtu-Ouue  ns   aste of n---oo   toihly p.iaclg prtran.                                          geealyblift par tho...a.l populttt  ..c ldIr  -otuaeed Itre lteioen-
tanuly Planrcoc-Innr fpercent of ncerod oon-erett   f taned                                  ltcouoto'i.eeod Io yearn obey r.Segtsneatf     of TV setno    it a.ffect.
oteen .f chltldb-tarrgO  1e15-k4 ynar..f oh. ae btith-totrof detOur  to                             reSlerer CoesuOo-fct D.e thosand otcu1lcnttl   Shh                    tenrbr _oetetc_
POPhOtD ANDUTITDION                                                                                        to Pr ~'dlol"' if It sppn-rsoclbunt foo  tfsrn  a sek.
lodaooI     olPtoto.e   apt   16-1Il      oe f                         pet rapist dnuoi  Ion--  Aonool Ottandonue OtCot   a  teac-henalo  the noober- of
penduuthoo of rio  food caeoldttios.  Pr-dalttl o -lude  nerd at  lead oad                             .i..at.  .nId during tie year. io,clodotgadrsotcstlrov-iotlilonna
Os or  olelard yea. at.           lu     ttrotr prImary  -ode leg..  ......a..                        amd mobIle  .nit..
eecornaauiadcd).  Aggeecata pro~Iduction  of ...cort        b.i..so   00                 LLiGI tORCE
rton         _ aonag  pruducer  lrict eiht.    1961-ID.J"07, Ird101  Iota.                             o   oo    ot  fooutde) -Etco.amicaly e-tite Pe...me. i-uladlog
fort caito noclp of clorito   reroetiof rn Itnen IoIs   - CPunoa  tru                    a      fodtne    n   nm Ird but  _olaloot hoo-ent-e, stdent. Iaet.
ehercteooOoelert ot   f oat   P foo   uple   aotal   otnt    e  upteovofg ptuoe onI of all oTs.leiotnso  rtucumeaor
pmla.   hoallabr euploe   rorsadnat  proo                   ito,   rprt  O...                     co  coepurabte; lOOt, 1070 end 001 d''ote
ruports, -I uharger  ft s.tek.  Neosuppliher ano lde acina1 teed,  -oel,                                                F.ne7pco) - PnI. labor forc  em p.e..r.ag. of tuta  labor force
eaocssnteatusetrdly PAOPb hasd 0         ooooe   oeds Out ruroo  a,n-                         ft chtog s   ntero    f tal laht-rb force; 1000. 1071 and 1070 deto.
ato   od holtIh   __nsdn_ogerluru hrprt are,body cngt,   Feodsr  (na-ro-) - Latoc fore to 0000i.  ctpi   o,emuairn
sod ran I Onortbutlor uf pupaiecioo, ord all_itgId pre I I. rr..t at                    aodaia,trftuty,  --tn  end gee as pe-tot-eP   of   oo   oc    O
hb..eehoid loceil 19ht-65, 0070, aol 107) late.                                                     1h7t cod 1070 fata.
Pet papio supplyof erlocn lerarmpee dat  - P-atnhoo-ote-  of prrc........ O troltto    prrut-ttl u~1 ela_ I.o Afoola - PertOolpattoror,
tn  suppy uf fol per dY.  tint supply of food  to deff-l Io aoe ir-                          ot-ult  totes are utoatel,a  total, male, cr1  f-lat  faIlt  fouto-
quacoaorn  fo  ohrot  In  aotdllshed hy UtDA pooOde fur efounu                                       orurae        f tuot1, mal  an d tamole pupaa-no  of alt  getI aotri
a..u.. f  0tre    .t tot.l proteoO P par la   do lDgrn at -nta  noI'y btd                                     170doe.Thr   -r  bored to il's'  Part.             etI     o ae
polo   protofr, ofshuch 00 gRoIn-  rhoud he Itol Iutfr   These  soltnIocOloeorsrunro                                                       the octuIlor-n  and IIIf tOte tred.A
ardseroe looentheorhuc          ufg...c.ctnot`   prunein    ..    ..    ff -rlfrnstueaafaeotfr-ontato-omo---
-tfoa   Protloi     .I a Ian rag   tonthoo 11, -d    .propoad hy POD ft the TPird                 cr--rit Doprodery Rati  - Ratio atpuunt                  order 05   d t5 a-d aunt
Aci'd-Food turoy; 19h1-tI, 1907  and 1077 Iota.                                                      tath,ott-1 t.b,ht  fort.
Per -acpo,cteic            ofo    outtalplo- Pr-anIc oupply of food dr-
toe.d ftto aliate rod poOre  fn gam   Per- lay; 1061-Oh, 1070 aol 0077 date.                   111C0PM Il_Tltttt' 010IEL
P1I1d (sas -A)lotlc   ne(rno.ed   - untie. I deaths pet thoa...rd On                                   P--  Ieoeptlo         1~ tr-on   tunA  It. oat  and   -dd) - At-tad It  -ur-oo
-ri- Iota detond f-  1ofe tubs-; 1007. lOl and 1070 lena                               .              uf .t ..athole
Ioat teauc  ennrh-       raa   A-aoga roeher of yoan of Ift. rrnaicicg                           The tafto1'icg  atOasae  -ey opproOoae renut  of pou-ty Irrot
at bifrh; 1060, 1907 aold 0107  ltS..                                                                  aold  hbtld he i.loep-ted oirhcooaile..obtletOn
Infant  o-talinyR Itt  Ie e-        ral  - &Utro1 deaths of lnf-rnudepao-  pear                       ZOst-lmrd iAbriat.      oerrfoteIrn 10  car  -opttrf -rhbco and coral1
ofae pe  tlh.....d li-o  bfrtho .                                                                                                                         -1ouapvry  noelufI  tu    o re  helot, ohota  moa
beruof p-apin(tona,  rbot, aol ruroy nfth oranmebl  aces  pun tIeafrlte
rooct  -bohathantros. pluor-nedhu-nboteo,cyrtng..r. adnooitacyaelfl.)                                  tirtltlepo_tttooelee  uoa-Or  of Iovroo  per..p..a
fodoou   topr    utd    _ttmr  ofat  ltsorfomahoeayrproefInc"`dp  ot ohfe cuoihy., Irha                                                      - levl i   af      ro   h   ua
...... II  I  l.. Fe   I.  le td 200   -re                                   brl sth  eyantare   or hgber.uoIof itiogSo               i    harrras
t     Istr d  benih,o ufolit tearom-bla aces  of  ha  hbota  1.Ictro11Ioeea                   E-irrmPa        ootot Belor Absolute Ptvc,tr   ILom.ntlltne                        b-oro
reanrall  acums a.,OdIn       , p otoha luas,etife trvhasa  the househod
do po, thaon n-pl r  a-    I  -bprporc-at  Dart ofted  day  io fdcirgn- r
~toutsil npettOotaf coiulatuat-tutal   hc _. otdr oal-                                                            -    i     dSle    l.0   l
ofal                          'hoo"p!ro  opiotu  to-tet  dIspsae   ayT   tid
roclatiunoe   hstut - Nr         opolaruo % Itoid d hy macbetbof prof l.t ing pyg
mo.lerd fteale grad.oaa ener  pracice  ttas  aol.. aTestan  roote.-



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVILQHENT DATA
_/
GNP PER CAPITA  IN 1979   US$190
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979/80                                                                    ANNUAL PATE OF GRC90TK  %. constant pricesl 5
US$ Bin           7.           i955/56-1959/60    196016L-1964/65       1965166-1969/70    1970171-1974/75    1975/76-197LZI7
GNP at M.rket Prices                     134.16         100.0                3.7                 3.6                  3.6                   2.8                  4.5
Grn.. Domestic Inve-tment                 29.24          21.8
Gross National SavinB                     28.55          21.3
Current Account Balance   d/              -0.85         - 0.6
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force               V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bn.              7.             Kil.                        US             of National AVarIce
Agriculture                           39,8                39.6           181.3      71                220                 56
Industry                             25.5                25.3             28.1      11                906                230
Service,                              35.3                35.1            46.0      18                767                195
Total/average                        1W006               100.0           255.4    100                 394                100
GOVERINMENT FIAIANCE
General Government                                               Central Govermenn
Rs  8n.               7 of GDP                                   Rs. l                  of  DP_
1979/80   1975/76-1979/0                            179/0        1979/80    1975/76-1979/80
Current Receipts                     208.18          19.2           18.9                               108.96         10.0            10.6
Current Espenditures                 206.44          19.0           17.7                               117.67         10.8            IO.
Current Surplus/Deficit                1.74           0.2            1.2                               - 8.71        - 0.8
Capital Enpenditures   f/             81.81           7.5            7.4                                56.93          5.2             5.1
internal Assistans-  (net)  dl         7.97           0.7            0.9                                 7.97          0.7             0.9
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES             1970/71       1973/74      1974/75      1975/76       1976/77      1977/78      1978/79       1979/80       Decmber 1979        Ds_lsr I"
(Re Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                  109.6        175.7        194.6        222.9          272.8        329.1        398.9         46.2             448.3             521.7
Dank Credit to Government (net)        52.6          87.3         95.3        101.1          110.2        134.7        153.9         192.2            176.4             231.4
Bank Credit to C,a_ercial Sector    64.6            107.0        126.7        153.9          185.0        212.2        253.5         306.5            294.7             335.9
(Percentage or Inde.  Number.)                                                              A*riul-kus   1979    April -Dee 199
:loney and Quasi Money as 4 of GDP   27.2            29.8         27.9         30.2           34.0         36.5         40.8          43.1
Wholesale Price lndex
(1970/71 - 100)                     100.0        139.7        174.9         173.0         176.6        185.8         185.8        217.6             212.2             253.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price index                    7.7         20.2         25.2        - 1.1            2.1          5.2            -          17.1              14.6             19.5
Dank Credit to Government (net)         10.8         12.3          9.2          6.1            9.0         22.2          14.3         24.9             24.9  j/          31.2 2 I
Rank Credit to Co,ercial Sector    19.4              22.6         18.4         21.5          20.2          14.7         19.5          20.9             17.5 stl          1e. 
t/  The per capita GNP estimte  is at mrket prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Dack AtIae, 1979.
All other conver-tons to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
J Quick Estimates.
El Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
4i/ World Bank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
SI Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
LI All loans and advance, to third parties have been netted omt.
&/ Percentage change from end-December 1978 to end-December 1979.
J/  Percentage change from end-December 1979 to end-December 1980.



Annex I
Page S of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                     1977/78      1978/79    1979180    1980/81              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77 - 1979/801
Exports of Goods                         6,315        6,978       7,958       8,998              Engineering Goods             768 I/       11
Imports of Goods                        -7,188       -8,519    -11,249      415,624             Tea                            462           7
Trade Balance                           - 873        -1,541    - 3,291    - 6,626               Gems                           605           9
NFS (net)                                  691          773         633         463             Clothing                       460           7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                         - 182        -768    - 2.658    - 6.163                       Products                425           6
Jute Manufactures             284           4
Interest Payments (net)  it               - 89         - 35         350         303              Iron Ore                      298           5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -            -           -           -               Cotton Textiles               289           4
Net Transfers 1/                         1,077        1,216       1,458       2,462              Sugar                         302           2
Others                      3,028          45
Balance on Current Account                 806          413       - 850      -3.398                                          6 751         100
Official Aid
Disbursements                         1,628        1,695       1,891       2,389             E1TERNAL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1980
Amortization                          - 645        - 702       - 676       - 707                                                   USS billion
Transactions with IMF                    - 330        - 158         -         1,035              Outstanding and Disbursed                  15.6
All Other Items                            617          286       - 143         133              Undisbursed                                 5.7
Outstanding. including                     21.3
Increase in Reserves (-)                -2,076       -1,534       - 222         548                  Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                5,823        7,357       7,579       7,031
Net Reserves   (end year)  k/            5,668        7,357       7,579       6,691              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80  h/!/  10.4 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                       IIRD/IDA LENDING. DECEMBER 31. 1980
Imports                                  1,811        2,043       3,977       7,012                                                    US$ million
of which:  Petroleum                  1,811       2,043       3,977        7,012                                               IBRD         IDA
Exports                                     32           24          26         n.a.             Outstanding and Disbursed         806         4,895
Undisbursed                        572         3,547
Outstanding, including          1,378          8,442
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Re 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972  : US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1979               US$1.00 - Re 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$o.126
Spot Rate end-December 1980            : US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$O.126
h/ Estimated.
/  Figures given cover all investment income (met).  Major pa7ments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to DO, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
E Excludes net use of IHF credit.
Ll Figure for 1979/80 is estimated.
ml Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
ApriL 1981



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower        Purpose                        Bank         IDA    Undisbursed
44 Loans/                                                          1,422.2          -
71 Credits fully disbursed                                               -    4,023.4           -
342-IN    1972  India   Education                                       -        12.0         3.23
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural Markets                  -         8.0         0;06
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing & Marketing                 -        13.0         5.24
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                       52.0         -         10.51
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy                                 -        30.0        15.86
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD                             -        83.0        28.53
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy                                 -        27.7        12.37
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy                            -        16.4         4.82
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI                               94.6         -          0.79
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric. Development                  -       34.0          1.29
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                      -       40.0         13.73
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry                             -       105.0        21.37
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV                           -      150.0         43.24
609-IN    1976  India   Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                    -         4.0         1.51
610-IN    1976  India   Integrated Cotton Development                   -        18.0        10.23
1251-IN    1976  India   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                    145.0         -         77.09
1260-IN    1976  India   IDBI II                                      40.0          -         10.94
1273-IN    1976  India   National Seeds I                              25.0         -         21.86
1313-IN    1976  India   Telecommunications VI                        80.0          -         18.25
1335-IN    1976  India   Bombay Urban Transport                        25.0         -          7.72
680-IN    1977  India   Kerala Agric. Development                       -        30.0        22.98
682-IN    1977  India   Orissa Agric. Development                       -        20.0         7.93
685-IN    1977  India   Singrauli Thermal Power                         -       150.0        37.72
687-IN    1977  India   Madras Urban Development                        -        24.0         4.57
690-IN    1977  India   WB Agric. Extension & Research                  -        12.0        12.00
1394-IN.   1977  India   Gujarat Fisheries                             14.0         -          7.75
712-IN    1977  India   Madhya Pradesh Agric. Development               -        10.0         5.35
720-IN    1977  India   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                       -        23.0        13.68
728-IN    1977  India   Assam Agricultural Development                  -         8.0         5.64
736-IN    1977  India   Maharashtra Irrigation                          -        70.0        30.33
737-IN    1977  India   Rajasthan Agric. Extension                      -        13.0         7.29
740-IN    1977  India   Orissa Irrigation                               -        58.0        29.65
1475-IN    1977  ICICI   Industry DFC XII                              80.0         -         10.36



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
747-IN    1978  India   Second Foodgrain Storage                      -       107.0        79.00
756-IN    1978  India   Calcutta Urban Development II                 -        87.0        19.11
761-IN    1978  India   Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                 -         8.0         7.11
1511-IN    1978  India   IDBI Joint/Public Sector                    25.0         -         17.49
1549-IN    1978  TEC       Third Trombay Thermal Power              105.0         -         62.96
788-IN    1978  India   Karnataka Irrigation                          -       117.6        77.28
793-IN    1978  India   Korba Thermal Power                           -       200.0       128.89
806-IN    1978  India   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                    -        14.0        13.75
808-IN    1978  India   Gujarat Irrigation                            -        85.0        63.60
815-IN    1978  India   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                      -        17.5        14.52
816-IN    1978  India   National Seeds II                             -        16.0        15.21
1592-IN    1978  India   Telecommunications VII                     120.0         -         53.14
824-IN    1978  India   National Dairy                                -       150.0       130.60
842-IN    1979  India   Bombay Water Supply II                        -       196.0       183.12
843-IN    1979  India   Haryana Irrigation                            -       111.0        43.66
844-IN    1979  India   Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                             -       190.0       148.97
848-IN    1979  India   Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage                -        38.0        21.46
855-IN    1979  India   National Agricultural Research                -        27.0        25.41
862-IN    1979  India   Composite Agricultural Extension              -        25.0        16.54
871-IN    1979  India   NCDC                                          -        30.0        15.55
1648-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                    50.0         -         50.00
874-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                      -       200.0       171.17
889-IN    1979  India   Punjab Irrigation                             -       129.0       100.81
899-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Water Supply                      -        48.0        44.85
911-IN    1979  India   Rural Electrification Corp. II                -       175.0       108.09
925-IN    1979  India   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry                 -        23.0        18.47
947-IN    1979  India   ARDC III                                      -       250.0        64.73
963-IN    1979  India   Inland Fisheries                              -        20.0        19.64
954-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Irrigation II                     -       210.0       174.13
961-IN    1979  India   Gujarat Community Forestry                    -        37.0        30.31
981-IN    1980  India   Population II                                 -        46.0        45.44
1003-IN    1980  India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition                          -        32.0        30.87
1004-IN    1980  India   U.P. Tubewells                                -        18.0        16.95
1011-IN    1980  India   Gujarat Irrigation II                         -       175.0       165.00
1027-IN    1980  India   Singrauli Thermal II                          -       300.0       279.15
1012-IN    1980  India   Cashewnut                                     -        22.0        21.75
1028-IN    1980  India   Kerala Agricultural Extension                 -        10.0        10.00
1033-IN    1980  India   Calcutta Urban Transport                      -        56.0        56.00
1034-IN    1980  India   Karnataka Sericulture                                  54.0        52.85
1046-IN    1980  India   Rajasthan Water Supply



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
and Sewerage                              -        80.0        77.22
1843-IN    1980  ICICI   Industry DFC XIII                          100.0         -         77.97
1887-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                       25.0         -         25.00
1053-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                         -       225.0       201.16
1897-IN    1980  India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                        30.0         -         29.01
1072-IN    1980  India   Bihar Rural Roads                             -        30.7        30.30
1078-IN    1980  India   Mahanadi Barrages                             -        72.8        72.80
1925-IN    1980  India   Bombay High Offshore
Development                           400.0         -        393.42
1082-IN    1981  India   Madras Urban Dev. II                          -        37.5        37.50
1108-IN    1981  India   M.P. Medium Irrigation                        -       129.6       129.60
1112-IN    1981  India   Telecommunications VIII                       -       290.4       268.70
1116-IN    1981  India   Karnataka Tank Irrigation                     -        50.1        50.10
1135-IN*   1981  India   Maharashtra Agr. Extension                    -        21.7        21.70
1137-IN*   1981  India   Tamil Nadu Agr. Extension                     -        26.3        26.30
1138-IN*   1981  India   Madhya Pradesh Agr. Extension II              -        34.9        34.90
1146-IN*   1981  India   NCDC II                                       -       117.1       117.10
Total                                               2,832.8   9,322.7
of which has been repaid                          1,090.2       77.7
Total now outstanding                               1,742.6   9,24
Amount Sold                        133.8
of which has been repaid        133.3                 0.5         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                   1,742.1   9,245.0
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                        874.3   3,620.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
kaage 4 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan     Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -       1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -       0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -       1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -       0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4      1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3      1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1      1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -       6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.0      8.6
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3      3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Stoels Limited                1.5        0.3       1.8
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         136.7       12.0    148.7
Less:   Sold                           26.0        1.7     27.7
Repaid                        22.2         -       22.2
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
NoT' Held                     82.3        9.0      91.3
Undisbursed                   79.3        1.5      80.8



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year, representing an increase of about 32%.
The undisbursed pipeline of US$4,494 million as of June 30, 1981, reflects
the lead time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and
slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097 Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and. are export-oriented.
Disbursements under both loans 1475 and 1843 are Ehead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank oi India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Datea: March 31, 1983
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project, US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Indus. rial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not expected
to be completed until 1984, as a result of delays in the employment of con-
sultants and the longer time required for the preparation of technical
specifications and tenders and the construction itself. In view of the high
increases in bulk storage construction costs, the Government is proposing to
reduce the bulk storage component of the project in favor of additional bag
storage capacity; this proposal is currently under consideration by the
Association.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the
last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
June 1981, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the projects were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced
growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Institutional
improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and the finan-
cial situation of the Posts atid Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Credit 1112, which became effective in June 1981, provides for the continued
expansion, over a three-year period, of the Indian telecommunications net-
work, particularly in rural areas. It also provides for the modernization
and upgrading of three existing telecommunications equipment factories, and
the establishment of three additional ones. Initial implementation and
procurement actions are proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of Decem-
ber 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier have not materialized because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a
list of sub-projects to replace the ones that have been dropped. Because of
the above, the project completion date has been delayed.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universities
in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve the
quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of their
employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to enable
it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where cornsistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned.  The Project Direc-
tor and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are supporting
efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the recently com-
pleted first Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390), is
proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection with implementation
of Credit 848 has been completed but subsequent procurement delays and slow
release of construction funds are likely to delay the project by about 12
months and result in cost increases. Physical progress under Credit 899 is
satisfactory. Initial delays in implemention of institutional arrangements
and tariff measures proposed for the project are now being overcome. Project
progress in this area is being closely monitored. Implementation of Credit
1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed construction programs have been
prepared for rural schemes, and preparation of tender documents for urban
schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consult-
ants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more
extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in about
15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these areas.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and marketing
strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components and thus replicability is actually
achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to strengthen financial
management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082  Second Madras Urbain Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
With respect to the second project, only recently signed and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December l8, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978  Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organiized along the lines of the successful AMUI. dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been estabLished  mnder the three state projects (Kar-
nataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has been
excellent and project auttiorities are under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of DCS.  Profitability in almost all of the DCS
is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a
satisfactory pace.  Limited milc processing capacity has been the major
constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under the National Dairy
Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost of approximately
Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a
further eight sub-projects are in various stages of preparation and appraisal.
Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well underway though disbursements
have been slow, mainly as a result in the start of project operations.
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects is
generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West_Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 1138  Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981-; Effective Date- July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
These eleven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in
terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in particular,
significant gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, where a
change in government brought a review of the organizational principles under-
lying the new extension system and an accompanying hiatus in project
implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the State Government's
commitment to the project, revised implementation plans have been prepared,
and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff shortages, particularly
in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered project implementation,
although progress in areas where regular extension visits are being made
attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Kar-
nataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project,
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken to pave
the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension system and field
work is off to a good start. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts after some initial start-up delays. Early progress
on civil works and initiation of the program in the remaining eight districts
will be required to regain the initial implementation schedule. In Tamil
Nadu and Maharashtra, project implementation has just begun, as these credits
became effective only recently. Early project review missions are scheduled
to assist in project initiation.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although
corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original estimates.
Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to expedite further
progress under the project.
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146  Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date (expected): October 21, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
As of October 1980, when Credit 871 was last reviewed, and according
to quarterly reports through March 1981, construction of godowns was
progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, although some
delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Consultants had been recruited
to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institu-
tions, although some consultants were yet to be recruited in Haryana. Dis-
bursements have been progressing well and are ahead of the appraisal targets.
Credit 1146, which was signed in July 1981, provides credit for the construc-
tion of cooperative godowns and cold-storage and marketing facilities to
support the pre- and post-harvest supply and markting requirements in nine
States; promote the development of cooperative institutions in these States;
and expand cooperative subproject preparation and appraisal activities within
the cooperative sector. Preparatory implementation work is well advanced in
most of the participating States.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas until
the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1918
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the second
project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being
reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses in
September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in Novem-
ber 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities have
been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a result, the



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily. Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, fnancial and managerial performance is lagging somewhat behing
expectations and must now receive project authorities' full attention if
physical and financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 1072  Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Bids have been invited for the first year program of rural road
construction to allow work to start following the monsoon. The whole project
aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads and to improve main-
tenance of the rural road network in Bihar as part of the State's overall
rural development efforts. Equipment has been ordered and is starting to
arrive.
Ln. No. 1394  Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
As of October 1980 when the first of these projects was last
reviewed, the harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had
encountered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies
had been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily following the resolu-
tion of design problems. The road component is also progressing satisfac-
torily.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980.
The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of
State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project
monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. However, hatchery planning
has been delayed as a result of a delay in the establishment of the engineer-
ing cell within the Central Project Unit.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
19/8; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
may 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/
Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has
been carrying out construction and operation of these power stations.
Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata
Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast
load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects
are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and Korba, construction works
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding according
to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Initial procurement delays having now been overcome, implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily on this project. However, project completion
will likely be delayed by approximately six months due to the initial delays.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Minor
start up delays in staffing are being corrected.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction, over a four-year
period, of about 160 tank irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka.
Start-up activities have commenced.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Six months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of West Bengal assisted by
Bank Group staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
October 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
August 10, 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
January 1982
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOWB to create two new forestry circles within
SFW, one not later than December 31, 1981, and the other
not later than December 31, 1983 (para 45).
(b) GOWB to submit to the Association a mid-term evaluation
of the project by March 31, 1984 (para 45).
(c) GOWB to appoint consultants for stove technology,
communication and extension and monitoring and evaluation
by December 31, 1981 (paras 45, 46 and 49).
(d) GOWB to establish a State Policy Committee and
District Policy Committees by April 30, 1982 (para 47).
(e) GOWB to provide housing or rent allowances as necessary
to ensure that SFW field staff live in or near their
work areas (para. 48).






IBRD 15616R1
!                                                                8        S/KK/M  L...h                      SEPTEMBER 1981
\--ARuW&IG -            BHUTAN
Th,s -ep has b-er prepard by the  N  E      P                                                      BHUTA
World bank s staff encfus,ve/f for                                   -X
the  -onven,encs of the readers of.
the report to wh,.h ttsattacht d
The dont,natsos used and the                                                   A\
bob-d-nes shown on th,e map                                         ;                 JAI     G
do not iplyf on the part of the                                                          -A   i GUR1
Werd Bask and to affihetes. any
jodgment on the let  otts of v                                                                     .
any tertor  or any  endorsement              _
or-aneptane of s-chob-daas-
8   /   H   A   If    g                                     K3cOO         f;HA
26                                                                                                                Ak  26-
INDIA                                      >t
WEST BENGAL
SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT  TnKatrhor                               WEST
SOILS
SOILS:
HILL ZONE                                                      _J
TERAI ZONE
OLD ALLUVIUM ZONE
NEW ALLUVIUM ZONE
LATERITE ZONE
COASTAL SALINE ZONE                                B  A    N    G        L    A    D    E    S    H
0      SELECTED TOWNS
-4------t-RAILROADS
-  -   -   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
STATE BOUNDARIES
-. -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-24                      =- RIVERS                                          99 / j W 240-
GIA
860A
MidnByBr
Wat "XA. i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



