Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Cter I\LE    CO                       Report No. 3434-IN
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOR'
September 15, 1981
Education and Agricultural Institutions Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performtnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = Rupees (Rs) 8.00
WEIGHTS ANI) MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAIL YEAR
GOI and GOWB: April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF             = Assistant Conservaitor of Forests
Addl CCF        = Additional Chief Conservator of Forests
ADFO            = Assistant Deputy Forest Officer
AFO             = Assistant Forest Officer
CCF             = Chief Conservator of Forests
CF              = Conservator of Forests
CPO             = Chief Publicity Of-ficer
DCF             = Deputy Conservator of Forests
DFO             = Divisional Forest Officer
DFR             = Deputy Forest Ranger
DPRO            = Divisional Public Relations Officer
DR              = Deputy Ranger
FD              = Forest Department
FEW             = Forest Extension Worker
FG              = Forest Guard
FR              = Forest Ranger
FWE             = Fuelwood Equivalent
GOI             = Government of India
GOWB            = Government of West: Bengal
ICB             = International Competitive Bidding
LCB             = Local Competitive Bidding
MEU             = Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
NPV             = Net Present Value
PRU             = Public Relations UJnit
PWD             = Public Works Department
ROR             = Rate of Return
SCF             = Standard Conversion Factor
SFW             = Social Forestry Wing
TCE             = Ton Coal Equivalent
WBFD            = West Bengal Forest:ry Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION ...................,.r...... 1
II. BACKGROUND ................................................ 1
A. Forestry  in  India ..........................1..,,,....... ,
Sectoral  Context ...............................,.,.l 1
Bank  Group  Role  in  the  Sector ........................... 2
B. The  State  of West Bengal .............................,.. 2
General ................. ....,                                            ......2
Panchayat System ................,                                                3
Present Consumption of Energy.                                                    4
C. Forestry  in West  Bengal ............................                            .   5
Environmental  Conditions  and  Forest  Types ............... 5
Contribution  of Forests  to  the  Economy .................. 6
Forestry  Institutions ................................... 7
Forestry  Programs ....................................... 8
Social  Forestry ......................................... 8
III. THE  PROJECT ............................................... 9
A. General ................................................... 9
General  Description ..................................... 9
Project  Phasing ......................................... 10
B. Detailed  Features ......................................... 11
Village  Woodlots ........................................ 12
Justification for Proposed Plantation Target of Village
Woodlots...                                                                 ... 12
Operating  Procedures .................................... 13
Strip  Plantations .....................................  13
Justification for Proposed Plantation Target of Strip
Plantations .....................................                               14
Farm  Forestry .....................................                               14
Justification for Proposed Plantation Target of Farm
Forestry ...................................                                   15
Rehabilitation and Reforestation of Degraded State-
Owned  Forests ...................................                              15
Justification for Proposed Plantation Target of Degraded
State-Owned  Forests ................................... 15
Plantation  Design  and  Establishment ..................... 15
Planting  Programs .....................................  16
Nurseries .......                                                                 16
Plantation  Establishment ................................ 17
Plantation Maintenance .................................. 17
Plantation  Protection ................................... 17
Conservation  of Fuelwood  Supplies ....................... 17
Research .......   .                                                              18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Implementation ......................                                                   19
Housing  and  Transportation  for  Staff ........................ 20
Training .................................................... 20
Public  Relations  Unit ....................................... 21
Monitoring  and  Evaluation .................  ................. 21
Fellowships ................................................. 22
Consultants ................................................. 22
IV.  COST  ESTIMATES  AND  FINANCING ................................... 22
A.  Cost  Estimates .............................................. 22
B.  Proposed  Financing .......................................... 24
C.  Procurement ................................................. 24
D.  Disbursements  and  Audits .................................... 25
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................................... 26
Social  Forestry  Wing ........................................ 26
Project Coordination .                                                                         27
Training ......                                                                                28
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS .................... 28
Yields  and  Production ....................................... 28
Sharing  oif  Produce  Between  Villagers ........................ 29
Financial  Results ........................................... 30
VII.  BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION  AND  RISKS .............................. 31
Benefits ..................................................... 31
Employmeni ................................................... 31
Environment ................................................. 31
Economic  Rate  of  Return ..................................... 32
Project  Risks ............................................... 33
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ................................................ 34
LIST OF ANNEXES
1    T-1   Properties and Uses of Tree Species in the Project
T-2   Model I - Strips on Main Roads
T-3   Model II - Strips on Minor Roads
T-4   Model III - Strips Along Narrow Roads
T-5   Model IV - Strips on Railways, Canals
T-6   Model V - Village Woodlots - Hills
T-7   Model VI - Village Woodlots - Alluvial Sites
T-8   Model VII - Village Woodlots - Laterite Areas
T-9   Model VIII - Farm Forestry - Hills
T-1O  Model IX - Farm Forestry - Alluvial Sites
T-ll  Model X - Farm Forestry - Laterite Areas



- iii -
T-ll     Model XI - Rehabilitation of Degraded Forests by Coppicing
T-12     Model XII - Planting of Degraded Sal Forests
2    T-1      Financial Costs and Returns to GOWB
3    T-1      Economic Analysis
T-2      Sensitivity Analysis
4    T-1      Incremental Costs and Benefits Streams at Market Prices
T-2      Incremental Costs and Benefits Streams at Efficiency Prices
T-3      Project Output
T-4      Financial and Economic Prices
5    T-1      Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
T-2      Implementation Schedule
6    T-1      Summary Project Costs
7    T-1      Staff and Other Operating Costs
T-2      Staff and Other Operating Costs (Continued)
T-3      Building and Housing
T-4      Training and Fellowship Costs
T-5      Planting Costs
8             Pattern of Land Holding
9             Reference Material Available in South Asia Information Center
Chart               Project Organization Chart
Maps
IBRD 15614          Research and Training Center
IBRD 15615          Density of Population
IBRD 15616          Soils
IBRD 15617          Normal Annual Rainfall



INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTIONi
1.01     Forests constitute only 13.5% of the area of West Bengal State and
are distributed non-uniformly over the entire State, leaving some of its
districts practically devoid of any woodland worthy of mention. Although
practice of scientific forestry was initiated as far back as in the 1860's,
the State's main concern was for meeting the demand for raw materials required
by the various wood-based industries in Calcutta and in the northern part of
the State.
1.02      Rapid increase in population coupled with a large influx of displaced
persons from the eastern part of the pre-independence province of East Pakistan
(now Bangladesh), has changed the situation drastically. After the national-
ization of all the private forests in 1953 with the promulgation of the West
Bengal Estate Acquisition Act, those forests which came under State management
were subjected to heavy demands from local people, despite the passing of laws
to prevent it, for forest products for their daily needs and grazing for their
livestock. A rigid imposition of State management involving the withdrawal
of these concessions did not, however, reduce the serious depletion of these
forests.
1.03      Forest administrators came slowly to realize that rapid depletion
of State forests could not be stopped by rigid enforcement of the laws but by
evolving a suitable policy whereby forestry became more meaningful to rural
communities, who constitute 75% of the State's population of 50 million. A
policy has now emerged whereby forests are being established to produce forest
products for basic human needs, to generate employment in rural areas, and to
preserve the environment.
1.04      In order to further these objectives GOWB prepared a social forestry
project and requested IDA assistance in its implementation. This report is
based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited India in
January/February 1981, comprised of D.A. Mitcinik, L. Ljungman, H. Woldu
(IDA), R. Noronha, P. Wood, (consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Forestry in India
Sectoral Context
2.01      India's forests account for 23% of the total land area and cover
some 75 M ha.  Annual domestic roundwood requirements by the year 2000 are
projec5ed to be nearly 290 M m  (fuelwood 225 M m  and industrial roundwood
65 M4 m ). Continuation of existing plantation programs of about 20,000 ha



-2-
annually, should ernsure the supply of industriai hardwood (52 14 m ) and about
half of the coniferous rouniwood demand (13 M m ). Regarding fuelwood, on
the assumption that 150 M m  continues annually to be supplied fro! existing
resources, provision will have to be made for an additional 75 M m by the
year 2000. This would require an annual planting program of some 450,000 ha,
but in terms of availability of both land and financial resources, this target
cannot be achieved., Plantings of 225,000 ha annually over the 1980's would be
a more realistic target.
2.02      India's strategy for forestry development reflects two priorities:
firstly, through community forestry programs to supply fuelwood, fodder,
small timber and minor forest produce to the rural population; and, secondly,
to develop production forestry to supply the growing needs of the domestic
wood products industry (particularly pulp and paper). Encompassing both
objectives is recognition of the vital role forestry plays in soil and water
conservation. In order to carry out this strategy, the National Commission on
Agriculture (1976) recommended that eac'i State reorganize its Forest Department
into two separate wings, one to remain in charge of traditional production of
forestry and wildlife activities, while a new wing would be created to develop
community forests. The Forest Departments of Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh States
were the first to c:reate community forestry wings.
Bank Group Role in the Sector
2.03      In early 1978, in recognition of the need to expand community
forestry activities, the Government of India (GOI) and the Bank agreed to
examine the possibilities of developing projects in the States of Gujarat and
Uttar Pradesh. 1/ The Uttar Pradesh Project was appraised in December 1979
and a Credit for US$23 M4 was approved in June 1979--the Gujarat Project was
appraised in March 1979 and a Credit of US$37 M approved in April 1980.  Both
projects are making good progress.  Private planting achievement during 1980
was almost double project targets, though village woodlot schemes have been
more slow to implement (para 3.08).
2.04      The Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project (Credit
609-IN) is the initial phase of a major project aimed at the establishment
of a forest-based industry in Bastar District. The feasibility study
(November 1980), financed under the Credit, recommended the establishment
of an integrated industrial complex wit'h one mill producing sawnwood and a
pulp mill producing kraft pulp to supply a printing and writing paper mill.
The Kandi WatershedL and Area Development Project (Loan 1897-IN, approved in
1978) involves reforestation and pasture development over some 18,000 ha of
Punjab's Siwalik Hills.
B. The State Df West Bengal
General
2
2.05      The State of West Bengal, with an area of 88,000 km , has a popula-
tion of about 54 M (1981), of which 75% reside in rural areas. Up to the
end of the 1960s, the State had the highest levels of industrial development
1/   Credits 961-INi and 925-IN respectively.



-3-
and per capita income in India. It lost this position in the 1970s. The
State, nevertheless, still has the second largest industrial base in India.
Despite this industrial concentration, agriculture plays a predominant role
in the State's economy, accounting for 40% of its income and providing 60%
of its employment.
2.06      Population density averages 569 persons per km , second only to
the State of Kerala.  But there is considerable 2inter-district variation in
population, ranging from a high of 1,6p0 per km in howrah District near
Calcutta (1971) to a low of 254 per km in Darjeeling District in the
Himalayan zone. A little over 25% of the population belongs to the tradi-
tionally disadvantaged classes--19.9% scheduled castes and 5.9% scheduled
tribes.
2.07      The rural population is spread over 41,951 villages (mauza), each
with an average population of about 900. Ecological differences and socio-
cultural factors influence variations in the incidence of poverty between
regions and different segments of the population. Over half of the rural
population was below the poverty line in 1977/78. In the village, traditional
patron-client relationships between castes are being replaced by a monetary
economy and many services, other than sharecropping arrangements, are today
paid for in cash. Farms in general are small with 80% of all holdings being
less than 2 ha. Details are given in Annex 8 Table 1.
2.08      Livestock forms an integral part of village life; a household pos-
sesses, on average, either two cattle or buffalo which provide milk, draught
power, manure and dung cake for cooking. Cattle and buffalo generally graze
on State lands that surround villages and their feed supplemented with lopping
from trees.
2.09      Population pressures and the increase in livestock numbers (of which
there are an estimated 19 M at present) necessitate the continual search for
food, fuel and fodder. This has resulted in indiscriminate tree-cutting and
increasing erosion. Consequently, the southern and western parts of the State
now have large tracts of barren waste lands. In the northern, more forested
areas of the State, there is increasing competition between commercial and
fuelwood needs, leading again, to uncontrolled depredations of the forests.
Panchayat System
2.10      The West Bengal Panchayat Act, 1973, introduced a three-tier system
of panchayats (elective corporate bodies) in the State. The three tiers
comprise village panchayats (gram panchayats) at the lowest level, comprising
a group of revenue villages (mauza); panchayat samitis (at the Block, or
sub-district level); and, at the district level, district panchayats (zilla
parishad). Provision is made for the nomination by the State to panchayats
of at least two women, and two members of the scheduled castes or scheduled
tribes, in the event that these have not been directly elected. There are
3,242 village panchayats, 324 panchayat samitis, and 16 district panchayats
in the State.



- 4 -
2.11      Panchayats can undertake a wida range of activities covering almost
every activity falling within the rubric of rural development. They can
make provision for and undertake rural works, irrigation, conservation and
cooperative farming, among other matters. Over the past three years, the
State has assigned to panchayats, among Dther programs, management of rural
works, food-for-work, rural reconstruction, and flood reconstruction programs.
Panchayat samitis play an important role as advisory committees on the imple-
mentation of land reforms.  Under the Indian Forest Act, the State is also
empowered to assign reserved or protected forests to village panchayats and,
in tribal areas, forest development and the establishment of plantations is
under the control of panchayats.
2.12      The State provides administrative and financial assistance to
panchayats. Under the former category, officials are seconded or transferred
to the Department of Panchayats and Community Development.  Most panchayat funds
are obtained through State grants for regular expenses (salaries, establishment
expenses, travelling allowances) and for assigned works. Panchayat funds
raised through taxes, rates and fees are small and generally average between
Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 (US$375-625) per year. All accounts are audited annually
both by the Panchayatt Accounts and Audit Organization, and the State Auditor
General.
2.13      After a period of nearly 15 years, there has been a remarkable
revival in panchayat activity since elections were held in June 1978. The
composition of panchayats has changed, with greater representation of young,
educated small farMers,  Further, even before these elections panchayats
evinced an interest in social forestry. The Department of Panchayats (as it
then was) sponsored training camps to motivate and educate local communities,
distributed free seedlings and organized inter-panchayat tree planting com-
petitions. From 1975-77 nearly 800 anchal panchayats (now converted to
village panchayats) planted 4 M seedlings. The devastation caused by the
1978 floods halted this program which was only revived, after completion of
most of the flood reconstruction in 1980. In the last year extension foresters
were posted to 15 village panchayats and worked closely with community leaders.
As a result, 15 nurseries were established and nearly 1 M seedlings planted
by village panchayats. (For further details on Panchayat Organization see
Project File, Item 1.)
Present Consumption of Energy
2.14      The Workir,g Group on Energy Policy (Planning Commission) estimated
the total annual domestic energy consumption of West Bengal in 1979 to be 14 M
tons coal equivalent (TCE).  This is based on a per capita demand of 0.38 TCE
and 0.4 TCE in the rural and urban areas respectively.  However, the NaSional
Commission on Agriculture in its Report of 1976 uses a figure of 0.28 m of
fuelwood per capita, equivalent to about 0.2 tons fuelwood equivalent (FWE)
or 0.19 TCE. The annual production of fu,slwood from GOWB forests is currently
estimated at about 1 M tons (recorded plus estimated illegal removals) and,
based on this, the National Commission estimate appears more realistic and
would give a total annual domestic energy requirement of 10 M tons FWE.



- 5 -
2.15      West Bengal has a relatively good supply of commerical energy (coal,
electricity, oil) and this has been estimated at meeting 20% of total demand.
This amounts to 2 M tons FWE. The remaining 8 M tons FWE is estimated to be
derived from:
_         Amount /a        _WE
Fuelwood and Charcoal         55        4.2 M ton      4.4 M ton
Crop Waste                    20        1.5 1 ton       1.6 1M ton
Dung Cake                     25        4.8 M ton      2.0 h ton
/a   Mission estimates.
In terms of fuelwood equivalent for today's population this would require
(assuming a mean annual increment of 7 tons per ha) an area of plantations
of over 1 M ha.
2.16      The cost of using dung cake for fuel instead of using it as an
organic manure to increase agricultural production is high. It can be assumed
that an application of 5 m ton/ha, would increase yields of foodgrains by 300
kg per ha. Thus, in terms of food production foregone, the annual loss from
4.8 M tons currently burnt would amount to over 288,000 tons of foodgrains.
2.17      Dung, fuelwood and crop wastes account for 80% of the fuel require-
ments of households. Rural electrification has reached 35% of rural villages
but as yet is used very little for cooking purposes. In rural areas it is
estimated that at least 80% of domestic fuel is collected free by women and
children who often spend half the day in foraging for wood, crop wastes,
dung and even leaves and twigs, which are swept from the forest floor. In
larger settlements fuelwood is a traded commodity, with prices ranging from
Rs 120 - Rs 180 per ton. Cow dung costs about Rs 120 per ton in rural areas,
though it is generally sold as a dung cake at Rs 0.10 each or by the cubic
foot at Rs 1.75.
C. Forestry in West Bengal
Environmental Conditions and Forest Types
2.18      West Bengal covers a wide variety of ecologies (IBRD Map 15616).
The greater part of the State consists of flat or gently undulating alluvial
plains with elevations of less than 30 m. In the south-west are uplands rising
to 300 m on ancient crystalline rocks with thin, lateritic soils. These areas
are joined by a narrow neck of alluvial land to the Himalayan zone in the
north-west, which consists of plains, foothills, and steep hilly country
rising to a maximum altitude of 3,700 m. The Ganga river system naturally
divides the northern part of the State from the southern, in which lie the
State's other important rivers, the Hoogly (branching from the Ganga) and the
Damodar.



- 6) -
2.19      The climate varies considerabLy, but in all parts the seasons are;
Winter (November-January), Summer (February-May) and Monsoon (June-October).
The range of temperature is considerable. In the Darjeeling District tempera-
tures below 00C are common, while summer temperatures frequently exceed 46 C
in the plains.  Most of the State receives more than 1,000 mm of rain annually,
and in the north it varies between 1,501) and 4,000 mm.  However, the rainfall
becomes progressively less reliable in The south, and everywhere there is a
prolonged dry season from November to January (with some rain in January/
February) and February to May (IBRD map 15617).
2.20      The natural forests of West Bengal may be grouped into seven major
types ranging from alpine forests in thes Himalayas to mangrove forests in the
Ganges-Brahmaputra delta (for detailed information see Project File, Item 10),
2.21      The forests are wholly owned by the State and are under the manage-
ment of the Forest Department which is headed by a Chief Conservator of
Forests. After the promulgation of the West Bengal Estate Acquisition Act
in 1953, the total forest area of the State is 1.18 M ha out of the total
State area of 8.78 M ha (approximately :L3.5% of the total geographical
area). In addition, it has been estimated that a substantial part of the
State's 1.3 M4 ha of waste and eroded agricultural lands would be suitable for
afforestation, i.e., approximately 900,000 ha. However, seven of the State's
16 districts have less than 1% of forest area. Again, in the traditionally
forest rich districts, the distribution is very lopsided and large tracts are
now devoid of any natural vegetation. ]'roductivity of more than half the
forest estate is lcw, either because of aridity and low soil fertility or
because of past degradation through illegal felling, overgrazing and burning.
An understanding of forest conservation is lacking in most sectors of the
community. Traditionally the forest has been regarded as an apparently
inexhaustible supply of free produce and a reservoir of land for alternative
uses.
2.22      Over the past two decades, West Bengal Foresty Department (WIBFD) has
expended considerable effort to improve productivity by forest rehabilitation,
improved management and greater control of illegal degradation. Since 1976,
the State Forest Directorate has embarked on a program of community forestry
designed to increase local awareness and the need to replace forest resources.
Contribution of Forests to the Economy
2.23      Contribution of the forestry sector and forest-based industries
to State income was estimated in 1977 tD be 2% (Rs 1,332 M) out of a total
of Rs 66,170 M. IrL 1974-77, State forests produced annually an average of
150,000 m of timber, 1 M1 m ton of fuelwood (which includes fuelwooe taken,
without charge, by right holders), 73,000 m ton of bamboo (a third of which
was trade quality) and 22,000 m ton of fodder grass. In addition, a wide
variety of other minor forest products were extracted, including gums, dried
leaves, edible flowers, fruits and oilseeds.



-7-
2.24      State forests support a number of industries:  some 800 sawmills,
34 plywood factories, some 760 tanneries, 3 paper mills, numerous furniture
workshops and 4 match factories. From 1974/75 to 1978/79 the annual con-
tribution of employment in forest-based industries grew from 1.1 to 4.1 N
man days.
2.25      The forests provide considerable benefits to members of scheduled
castes, marginal farmers and landless laborers (who form the bulk of the popu-
lation in and around forests) in the form of free fuelwood, fruit, flowers,
grazing, honey, poles for hut construction, and bamboo (either free or at
subsidized rates) for cottage industries. Work in forest areas also provides
the main source of paid employment for these people. In 1976/77, primary
forest production generated 7 1i man days of employment.
2.26      Unfortunately, shortages of primary forest products, especially
fuelwood, building poles and fodder are becoming increasingly severe and are
likely to become worse in the future. Although rehabilitation and improved
management of the existing forest estate will help alleviate the situation,
the magnitude of the problem and the lopsided geographic distribution of
existing forest resources are such that the long-term solution lies in the
afforestation of new areas. Presently, many areas such as road, rail and
canal reserves and other wastelands that could grow trees, are unproductive.
Thus, afforestation of new areas, combined with rehabilitation of existing
degraded forest, would provide a reasonably well distributed forest resource,
with environmental as well as directly productive benefits.
Forestry Institutions
2.27     The Head of the West Bengal Forestry Department (WBFD) is the Chief
Conservator of Forests (CCF) who is also Chief Wildlife Warden. He is supported
at headquarters by one Additional CCF (Addl. CCF) and one Assistant CCF. Also
directly responsible to him are three Conservators of Forests (CF) in charge
of Soil Conservation, Planning and Research Development Circles, and two CF
responsible for Social Forests and for Wildlife.
2.28     At field level there are three operational circles, each headed
by a CF. Each of these circles is responsible for 4-6 divisions 1/ (a total
of 16 divisions). Each division is headed by a Divisional Forest Officer
(DFO), who is usually a Deputy Conservator (DC) and is assisted by an Assistant
or Additional Divisional Forest Officer (ADFO) and one or more Assistant Forest
Officer(s) (Asst. FO). Within a Division there are 4-12 Range Offices, each
staffed by a Forest Ranger (FR) who is responsible for all technical matters
associated with the establishment of plantations. Each Ranger covers 3-4
beats, and each is staffed by a Deputy Ranger/Forester who is responsible for
the physical establishment of plantations within his beat and supervision of
3-4 Forest Guards (FG) employed to protect the forests.
2.29      There are three levels of formal forestry training.  Forest officers
(professional) are recruited from science graduates and undertake a two-year
1/   Northern circle, six divisions; western circle, six divisions; central
circle, four divisions.



course at All-India Forestry colleges operated by the central government.
Range Officers are recruited partly from science graduates and partly from
serving foresters. These are trained, for two years, at the GOI Forest Rangers
College at Kurseong, but there is often a long delay in training for promoted
foresters, as the college serves other eastern states in addition to West
Bengal. Foresters/I)eputy i'angers are recruited from the ranks of serving
Forest Guards. They are trained at a one year course given at the West Bengal
Forest School at Dow Hill, which also serves several neighboring states. Long
delays are also experienced in getting Foresters/Deputy Rangers trained owing
to limited capacity in the School (60 West Bengal students per year). Forest
Guards are recruitecd from secondary school leavers and there is currently no
Forest Guard training school, though one is planned and expected to be opera-
tional in 1982.
2.30      In 1974, the West Bengal Forest Development Corporation was
established following the recommendations of the National Commission for
Agriculture. The Corporation has now been entrusted with the management of
the major part of the hill forests of the State; it also controls a signif-
icant part of those of the State's forest industries which are owned by GOWB.
Forestry Programs
2.31      The State has been active in the improvement of forest reserves
through the establishment of man-made forests. At the end of 1980 the total
area of plantations was:
North Bengal                Coniferous           8,000 ha
Broadleaved         57,000 ha
South Bengal               Eucalyptus           55,000 ha
Other Species       70,000 ha
190,000 ha
This represents about 15% of the State's total forest area, compared with 4.8%
for India as a whole, and reflects the great efforts over the last 30 years to
raise the productivity of low-yielding natural forests. The appraisal mission
visited numerous plantations throughout the State and were impressed with their
quality and management. Total expenditure on forestry under the Fifth Plan
(1974-79) was Rs 52 M or 0.4% of the total. In the Sixth Plan Rs 613 M have
been allocated to forest development or 1% of the total.
Social Forestry
2.32      In 1975 the Panchayat Department of GOWB sponsored a social forestry
program under the Local Leadership Scheme. The main purpose of the scheme was
to mobilize local initiative and sustain the interest of both the panchayats
and youth organizations in a tree planting program. The program established
by 1980, 1,200 ha of communal plantations. In the period 1976-1980, tlle FD
distributed an additional 5 Ivi seedlings for individual planting, with high
survival rates.



- 9 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01     The project's primary objectives would be to increase supplies of
fuelwood to rural areas through the establishment of 93,000 ha of plantations
located in all 16 districts of the State. Secondary objectives would be to
provide poles, bamboo, small timber, fodder grass, fruits, oilseeds and other
minor products. In order to carry out this program the project would provide
training facilities, vehicles, housing, equipment and additional staff for
research and extension activities. Moreover, the project would introduce
improved stoves as a fuelwood conservation measure. The project will result
in considerable seasonal employment, estimated at 15 h man days and create
750 permanent jobs over six years.
General Description
3.02      During a six-year period the project would:
(a)  establish 6,000 ha of village woodlots;
(b)  rehabilitate and reforest 15,000 ha of degraded forests;
(c)  establish 20,000 ha of strip plantings along roads, canals
and railroads;
(d)  establish 52,000 ha of farm forestry on private land;
(e)  develop nurseries to provide planting stock;
(f)  construct a Forest Guard School;
(g)  expand the existing Uest Bengal Forest School;
(h)  provide forestry staff at the operational and extension
levels, including staff to support publicity, research,
training, improvement of stove technology and monitoring
activities;
(i)  strengthen research activities, and construct seed storage
godowns;
(j)  develop training of project staff including provision of
fellowships; and
(k)  construct about 10,000 smokeless stoves.
Prime responsibility for implementation would be with the Social Forestry Wing
(SFW) in the Forestry Department.



- 10 -
3.03      Underlying factors in setting the proposed targets and arriving at
methods of sharing benefits were as foLlows:
(a)  to reach a maximum number of small farmers and landless
farm laborers;
(b)  to ensure that total fuelwood plantation costs would not
exceed the State's original budget proposal; and
(c)  to transfer responsibility for management and protection
of village woodlots and strip plantations to the village
panchayats as soon as SFW has recovered its direct costs,
estimated at the 7th or 8th year after establishment.
Thereafter, all produce would be given to the village
panchayats.
Project Phasing
3.04      Given below is the proposed planting program:



- 11 -
Project Planting Program
(hectares)
Project Year
Category /a                 1      2        3        4        5       6       Total
Strip Plantations
Model I                 10     40       50       50      75       75        300
II               20      80     100      150      150     200        700
III              200    800   1,000   1,000   1,250   1,250         5,500
IV               200    800   2,000   3,00U   3,500   4,000    13,500
Subtotal                                                               20,000
Village 1Woodlots /b
Model V               10      30       70       95      95       -         300
VI              40    200      630      735   1,095       -       2,700
VII             60    200      720      790   1,230       -       3,000
Subtotal                                                                6,000
Farm Forestry
Model VIII (d) (e)   60    180        240     240      240      240     1,200
IX   (d) (e)  600  1,900   3,800   5,000   5,000   6,000    22,300
X   (d) (e)  800  2,200   5,000   5,500   7,000   8,000    28,500
Subtotal                                                               52,000
Degraded Forests
Model XI             300    700   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000          5,000
XII            300    700   1,500   2,000   2,500   3,000    10,000
Subtotal                                                               15,000
GRAND TOTAL              2,600   7,830 16,110  19,560  23,135  23,765    93,000
/a   Plantation models contain various tree species to suit varying climatic
conditions (Annex 1, Table 2 - Table 13).
/b   Because this is a somewhat innovative approach and it is impossible to
predict with certainty villagers' response to the alternative approaches
to community forestry, flexibility would be maintained during project
implementation and would allow for shifting the proportion of planting
from one category to another according to results. This would be accom-
plished by monitoring the results (para 3.47) and by a joint GOWB/IDA
review in project year 4.
B. Detailed Features
3.05      All four categories of plantations (village woodlots, reforestation
of degraded forests, afforestation of eroded agricultural lands and wastelands
and strip plantations) have differing conceptual, establishment, management,
harvesting, marketing, legal and funding features which distinguish them from
one another (see Annex 1, Tables 2 - Table 13). Details of each category are
summarized in the following paragraphs.



- 12 -
Village Woodlots (6,000 ha)
3.06      Three schemes involving different levels of community participation
would be introduced on State land leased to the village panchayats.
(a) Establishiment of 2,500 ha of village woodlots in 2,500
village panchayats for demonstration purposes - one ha for
each village panchayat, representing 42% of total village
woodlots to be planted under the project. Cost of planting
and maintenance would be borne by the Social Forestry Wing
(SFW). The village panchayat would protect and manage the
plantation for two years in cooperation with SFW. If the
village panchayat has successfully protected its plantation,
it can opt for either of the following schemes.
(b)  Loan Scheme - (1,750 ha representing 29% of total village
woodlots program). Apply for an interest free loan of Rs 2,000
per ha for a maximum of two ha to cover the cost of planting,
maintenancze and protection of the plantation. In the 8th
year after establishment, SFW would recover its loan from
the sale of the harvestable produce; or
(c) Supervisedl Scheme - (1,750 ha representing 29% of total
village woodlots program). SEW would establish, maintain
and protect a maximum of two ha per village panchayat.
SFW would recover all direct costs after the sale of the
first or second harvest of produce.
3.07      In all three schemes the village panchayats would receive seedlings
free of cost from SFW.
Justification for Proposed Plantation Target of Village Woodlots
3.08      Experience gained from ongoing community forestry projects in India
(Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh States) and Nepal indicates that Community Forestry
Wings have made slow progress in implementing the development of village
woodlots. It is too early to draw any final conclusions from these projects
as most of them are only in their 2nd year of implementation. Nevertheless,
observations suggest the following key factors to be important:
(a)  the absence of strong local leaders to coordinate activities
and mobilize the local population;
(b)  economic and social inequalities among the local population
have discouraged cooperation between the poorer and better-
off sections of the community, thereby creating suspicion
among the poor and reluctance to participate in communal
projects; and
(c) the need to define clearly a target population which is
likely to be much smaller than the village panchayat,
and ensure its close proximity to the village woodlot,
thereby providing the plantations with better management
and protection.



- 13 -
Consequently, Government's original proposal for the establishment of 12,000
ha of village woodlots has been reduced to 6,000 ha during appraisal.
Operating Procedures
3.09      SFW, acting through its field staff, would encourage villages to
take up the 1 ha demonstration plot and once a panchayat has demonstrated its
ability to protect and manage the 1 ha forest plot, field staff would assist
villages to join either of the two other schemes by explaining the benefits to
be obtained from the creation of village woodlots, by assisting the panchayat
in locating areas of grazing or wastelands which can be planted with trees,
and by explaining the nature and provisions of agreements to be entered into
between the panchayat and SFW, (see para 6.02(a) and items 2 and 3 in Project
File). The panchayat assembly would determine the number and type of species
to be planted with the assistance of the FR and the DFO.
3.10      Once proposals have been agreed upon, village panchayats would be
assisted with implementation through regular visits from Forest Extension
Workers (FEW) and Motivators (para 5.02). FEW and Motivators would develop
the villagers' skills and understanding of forestry through these visits,
increased publicity (films, posters, talks) and by organizing one-day visits
of groups of villagers to demonstration areas where panchayats or farmers have
developed their own plantations. In addition, groups of progressive farmers
and village panchayat committees would participate in monthly one-day orient-
ation training organized by the DCF and ADFO at the district level.
Strip Plantations (20,000 ha)
3.11      Full responsibility for establishing plantations alongside roads,
canals and railways 1/ would be with SFW as GOWB does not wish to relinquish
legal control of these areas to Panchayats or individuals in anticipation of
possible protracted litigations over compensation should the land be required
at short notice for public purposes.
3.12      Villagers who have strip plantations adjacent to their lands would
be allowed to collect grass, fodder, fallen wood and other minor produce from
these areas. In return, they would cooperate with project field staff in
protecting these strip plantations. At year 8 of the plantation, after the
sale of forest produce, SFW would recover its direct costs for establishing,
protecting and maintaining the strip plantation, and the cash balance given to
the village Panchayat to establish additional strip plantations. Thereafter,
management of strip plantations and all produce would be given to the village
panchayat. The nature and provisions of the agreement to be entered into
between the panchayat and SFW is given in item 4 of the Project File.
1/   Many panchayats in areas of high population density do not have
unutilized land and the only wastelands available are along roads,
canals and railways.



- 14 -
Justification for Proposed Plantation Target of Strip Plantations
3.13       The protection and management of strip plantations would be easier
to implement than village woodlots, because the population living alongside
roads, railways, canals and riverbanks would be more easily identified by the
extension worker who would explain to the villagers the benefits they would
derive from the collection of fodder and fuelwood if they cooperated with the
extension staff in the protection of these strip plantations, especially from
uncontrolled grazing of animals.
Farm Forestry (52,000 ha)
3.14       Three schemes involving different levels of farmers' participation
would be introduced either on private wa steland or on State land leased to
individuals:
(a)  Distribution of free seedlings with cash incentive--(22,000
ha representing 42% of total farm forestry plantations).
To encourage poor farmers with small holdings of wasteland to
take up tree planting, a scheme would be introduced to provide
free seed:Lings and a payment intended to partly cover the
farmer's :Labor costs. 1/ A maximum of 750 (equivalent to
approximaltely 0.5 ha of plantation) and a minimum of 50 seed-
lings wouLd enable the farmer to qualify for a cash payment
of 40 paise per seedling (equivalent to Rs 300 for 0.5 ha of
private pLantation), to be paid in three yearly installments.
Second and third year payments would be made only for trees
that have survived. The farmer would be visited regularly by
the Motivator and FEW to monitor his progress. The nature and
provisions of the agreement to be entered into between the SFW
and the farmer are given in item 5 of the Project File.
(b) DistributiLon of free seedlings with cash incentive--(10,000 ha
representi ng 19% of total farm forestry plantations). Landless
farm laborers would benefit from free seedling distribution
and a cash incentive similar to scheme (a). The Land Reform
Commissioner would apportion small parcels (up to 0.5 ha) of
state-owned wasteland to landless farm laborers who would
benefit from the program (see item 5 of Project File). (For
details on land tenure see item 6 of Project File.) 2/
(c)  Distribution of free seedlings--(20,000 ha representing 39%
of total farm forestry plantations).  SFW would distribute
a total of 50 M seedlings free of cost (approximately 2,500
seedlings per ha) to farmers for planting on privately owned
wastelands.
1/   Farmers with holdings of 2.0 ha or less would qualify to join the scheme
and trees would not be planted on any land classified other than wasteland.
2/   There are some 500,000 ha of wastelands mainly in the south and south-
western part of the State suitable for establishing private plantations.



- 15 -
Justification for Proposed Plantation Target of Farm Forestry
3.15      In view of the enormous success of tree planting by individuals in
Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh States, the Government's original target of 15,000
ha was increased to 52,000 ha at appraisal.
Rehabilitation and Reforestation of Degraded State-Owned Forests (15,000 ha)
3.16      Fifteen thousand ha of degraded State-owned forest reserves would
be rehabilitated through replanting with fuelwood and other species. Casual
labor would be employed by SFW to establish and maintain the plantations.
The villagers of the locality would continue to collect 25% of the produce
free of cost. The collection of free fodder and fuelwood would be organized
by the Deputy Conservator of Forests and his staff.
3.17      The Government's original proposal was reduced at appraisal from
25,000 ha to 15,000 ha due to the State's budgetary constraints.
Plantation Design and Establishment
3.18      Overall 75-90% of trees planted would produce fuelwood or poles.
Many of the species used produce good leaf-fodder and in most cases fodder
legumes would also be grown beneath trees. Moreover, the production of
naturally-occuring grasses would be enhanced by the protection from uncon-
trolled grazing. Although many different items would be produced, the main
emphasis is on fuelwood production, or in some cases bamboo. For details
on fodder species see Project File, item 7.
3.19      Most of the species chosen are indigenous to India, or if exotic,
well naturalized and known to FD. The range of species recommended is wide
and covers a large range of ecological conditions. A list of the selected
species, is given in Annex 1, Table 1. Decisions on the species mix would
be made locally after considering the objectives of the plantations and
the needs of the locality. Seed collection and storage would be organized
accordingly. The project would provide funds for the construction of nine
seed godowns, one for each division (para 5.01).
3.20      Twelve plantation models have been developed to meet the different
objectives and site conditions of the State. Many more variations for sub-
sites are possible, but in general all are rainfed, and no irrigation (except
on a research basis) is proposed. Details are given in Annex 1 tables 2-13.
3.21      In strip plantations, fuelwood and pole species predominate, with
ornamental and shade trees included along roads, but omitted along railways
and canals, where bamboos have been proposed. Fruit trees are included in
all models varying from about 5-20%.
3.22      In village and private woodlots, fuelwood and pole species represent
80% of the species planted, timber species 15% and bamboos 5% (generally
planted along the periphery of the plantations).



- 16 --
3.23      The rehabilitation of degraded forest reserves would be carried out
either by coppicing the existing Sal stumps or where these have disappeared,
by planting fuelwood and pole species (80%) and timber (20%).
3.24      Planting costs are given below:
Range of
Category of Planting                  Establishment Costs
(Rs/ha) /a
Strip Plantations                           4,100 - 6,500
Village Woodlots (supervised)               3,535 - 4,040
Village Woodlots (self-help)                2,860 - 3,095
Private Woodlots                            1,460 - 1,700
Reforestat:ion of Degraded Forests              3,125
Rehabilitation of Sal Forests                     970
/a   Expenditures incurred during the first six years,
inclucding nursery advance soil works, establishment,
maintenance and protection. On average, labor costs
represent 94% of total planting expenditures (Annex 7
Table 5).
Planting Programs
3.25      Annual planting programs would be agreed at State and district com-
mittee meetings (see para 5.04 for constiltution of these committees). Planting
sites would be selected and surveyed during the winter months, and pitting and
other advance soil and protective works carried out usually in January-March.
Pitting is not necessary in fertile hill areas. Seedlings for the current
year's planting would be transported to the site in advance of the onset of
the monsoon in late June/early July. It Ls anticipated that most plants would
be transported by the beneficiaries, or by bullock cart.
Nurseries
3.26      At present there are 39 permanent and 500 temporary nurseries in
the State. The latter are set up on an arnual basis depending on the planting
program. It is proposed to establish at least one permanent nursery for the
social forestry program in each Administrative Block, but temporary nurseries
would be established as and when demand dictates. Where necessary, permanent
nurseries would be equaipped with pumps and sprinkler, but in temporary nur-
series a shallow well and hand watering would be standard practice. Throughout
almost the entire State the water table is sufficiently near the surface for
this to be feasible. Permanent nurseries would be in charge of a Forester,
temporary ones under the control of FEW.
3.27      All tree seed, except that of Pinus caribaea, Eucalyptus grandis
and Leucaema leucocephala would be collected locally. Seed would be stored
and tested at each of the seed godowns to be located throughout the State
(IBRD Map 15614). Most species planted would be grown as seedlings in poly-
thene tubs, but teak and sissoo would be planted as stumps and some bamboo



- 17 -
species as culms. Most planting stock (except tall plants and fruit trees)
would be planted out at less than one year old. Herbaceous legumes and
grasses would be sown direct. Difficulties are anticipated in obtaining the
best quality of culms of bamboos and a multiplication garden would be set up
in one of the plantation areas.
Plantation Establishment
3.28      In order to ensure high survival and growth rates and in view of the
important demonstration effect of good plantations, both cow dung and chemical
fertilizer would be applied to the planting pits of many of the plantation
models.
Plantation Maintenance
3.29      Tending operations would consist of replacement of casualties (once
only in the year of planting) and weeding round the trees. For costs see
Annex 7, Table 5. Funds are also included for the maintenance of 2,600 ha
of plantations established before the commencement of the project.
3.30      Weeding and soil working around the base of each tree would generally
be undertaken at most three times in the year of planting and once or twice in
the following four years. A particular feature of the systems used would be
that local people or private owners would remove grass and herbaceous fodder
from the plantations thus performing a valuable weeding function and reducing
the dry season fire risk. The trees themselves would also suppress much of
the weed growth as they close canopy.
Plantation Protection
3.31      All plantations require protection against insect attack, and
against grazing and fire. Protection against termites would be provided
through the use of insecticides applied to the soil round the base of the
tree. In all areas, provision for a guard or watchman has been made, despite
the high cost per ha of guarding narrow strips. Throughout the State, however,
the support for social forestry appears to be considerable and much communal
responsibility for restraining grazing animals can be expected, especially
as cut fodder will be made freely available to all. Fences will be used
sparingly, more for psychological effect than as a physical barrier. In strip
plantations some individual tree protectors, using local material would be
used, at a cost of Rs 3 per tree, together with a live hedge costing Rs 80
per km. In strip plantations along railways, more elaborate thorn and trunk-
wood fences would be used at about Rs 250 per km. Boundary trenches, costing
an average of Rs 100 per ha, would be used in some village plantations but no
fences are proposed. Patrolling watchmen would cover from 2 ha (in the first
year of narrow strip plantations) to over 20 ha for large blocks of plantation
in the plains and hills.
Conservation of Fuelwood Supplies
3.32      Introduction of More Efficient Wood Burning Stoves.  By making simple
adjustments to the traditional cooking stove and by addition of a smokestack



- 18 -
a more fuel efficient stove can be manufactured from local clay and sand at
small cost (approximately Rs 50 per stove).  Research in improved stove tech-
nology is not lacking in India.  Since the early fifties, various research
institutions have been experimenting with smokeless stoves. The major problem
has been the failure to transfer this improved technology to villagers and to
adapt stoves to different climatic and behavorial needs.
3.33      The project would make provisions for the recruitment of a local
consultant (stove technologist) and for a stove improvement unit staffed by a
unit head and six promoters. In addition, the project would provide for the
construction of 10,000 improved stoves to be demonstrated in at least 2,000
villages over the six-year project implementation period. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that GOWB would appoint a Stove Consultant not later
than December 31st, 1981.
Research
3.34      The project would provide for increased research and seed testing.
The research program would be under the direction of the CF (see Chart 22581).
Two research units would be provided--one for each circle--and headed by a
research assistant and supplemented by existing research staff transferred
from within the F.D.
3.35      A detailed research program is given in the Project File, item 8.
The work would be divided into nine sections.
(a)  Nursery studies would aim at reducing costs through introduc-
tion of better techniques, including the use of 'mini' pots and
bare rooted transplants, the issue to farmers of germinated
seedlings for transplanting, and seeds for direct planting by
farmers;
(b)  Silviculture studies would be made on pitting, fertilizing,
planting (date, pollarding and coppicing and rotation length,
all with the objective of reducing costs but retaining and
increasing performance.
(c) Studies would be done on collectioni, handling, storage,
pre-treatiment and germination of tree seed; a reliable system
of record keeping at each seed godown would be developed.
(d) The growth performance of trees in strips as well as blocks
would be studied and spacing trials instituted.
(e) Energy farming trials: special studies, some of which are
already under way, would concern the use of closely planted
trees for rapid biomass production for energy.
(f) Intercropping trials studying inter-relationships of trees
and fodder crops and also mixtures of trees would be done to
evaluate the 3 dimensional effects of the models used.



- 19 -
(g) Some limited studies on species introduction and provenance
trials would be carried out partly with fodder trees, and
partly with fuel and pulpwood species. For the most part,
however, the species proposed are socially acceptable and no
major changes in them are expected during the life of the
project.
(h) Minor forest products, e.g., oils, gums, etc. are important
and their production in social forestry plantations would be
studied.
(i) Socio-economic studies on the opportunity costs of farming
and forestry, on basic wood and fodder needs, and on the
development of different species mixes would be instituted
early in the project and form a vital function in directing
further technical research.
Project Implementation
3.36      The success of the proposed social forestry program would depend
largely upon an efficient organization with suitably trained and equipped staff
acting in full cooperation with rural people. To achieve these objectives, the
project would expand and strengthen SFW by the recruitment of additional staff
for forestry extension and the creation of two special support units (paras
3.46 and 3.47); a public relations unit and a monitoring and evaluation unit.
3.37      Annual planting targets (para 3.04) have been geared to the rate
at which SFW can recruit and train staff. Details of staff requirements are
given below and in Annex 7, Table 1:
Project Staff Requirements
To Be Transferred       Total at Full
Category                  From FD to SFW           Development
Addl. CCF                             1                        1
CF                                    2                        2
DCF                                  10                       10
Public Relations Officer (PRO)        1                        1
Assistant Divisional Forest
Officer (ADFO)                      9                        9
Forest Ranger (FR)                   47                       47
Deputy Forest Ranger (DFR)          184                      184
Divisional Public Relations
Officer (DPRO)                      9                        9
Forest Extension Worker (FEW) (to be recruited)              360
Motivators                                                 1,000
Support Staff (Drivers, Clerks,
Accountants)                                               225
Consultants (3)                                       72 man-months



- 20 -
Housing and Transportation for Staff (SEW)
3.38      Much of the success of SFW's activities would depend on regular and
frequent visits by field staff to village panchayats and individual farmers
and supervision of plantations, all of which would be scattered over wide
areas. It is, therefore, vital thiat field level staff and their supervisors
live near their work and that they are sufficiently mobile to enable them to
function effectively. At present, housing for rent in rural areas is limited
and staff often live far from their work and rely on public transport. To
help overcome this, the project would construct 220 units which would provide
accommodations for 61% of forestry exterLsion workers (FEW).  however, GOWB
housing policy would continue to encourage the use of rented accommodation
wherever possible. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOWB
would ensure that field staff would live in the area assigned for their
operations and for this purpose would provide such housing or rent allowance
as necessary. Design standards and cost estimates of housing were reviewed
during appraisal and the average cost of housing for field level staff would
be about Rs 24,090 (US$ 3,012). Designs would be in accordance with existing
government standards which apply to all Government departments.
Housing Requirements (numbers)
Unit Cost           _    Iroject Year
(Rs '000)         1      2      3     4      5
24.09          40      65    65    45    5
3.39      No provision has been made for housing of officers and office staff
who would be located at district headquarters, where accommodation on various
government housing estates would be available to them.  Motivators would
reside in their villages, generally in t:heir own houses.
3.40      The project would provide vehicles at headquarters, divisional and
circle levels, namely:
Category                       Project Year             Total
1     2     3      4     5
Car                    1                                   1
4-wheel drive          4      2     2      2              10
Station Wagon          1                                   1
Vans                                1      1     1         3
Bus                    1                                   1
Motorcycles           10    10    10    10                40
Training
3.41      Construction of Forest Guard Training School.  At present, no formal
training is provided for forest guards. The need to establish a training
course has become more urgent since the FD is expanding its social forestry
program and the traditional duties of forest guards would gradually change if
they are to play a significant role in t.hese activities.



- 21 -
3.42      The project would provide for the construction and equipping of the
school and its running costs for four years. The school would accommodate
60 students per session for a five-month certificate course.
3.43      Expansion of the West Bengal Forest School.  The State has a 70-year
old institution of high standard giving training to Deputy Rangers/Foresters
through a one-year certificate level course. The school accommodates 60
students from the State and 20 students from nearby States such as Sikkim,
Manipur, Nagaland, Mazoram and the neighboring country of Bhutan. The project
would enlarge the present facilities by constructing a hostel for an extra 40
students and staff quarters for additional teaching staff. Existing classroom
space and other facilities are adequate for 120 students.
3.44      Design of buildings for both schools would be in accordance with
existing government standards for similar buildings and which apply to all
government departments.
3.45      Expansion of Training Facilities for Forest Extension Works (FEW)
and Motivators. Training of 360 Forest Extension Workers (FEW) would be
carried out in two existing buildings. However, additional facilities such
as dormitories and kitchens would have to be constructed. Training of 1,000
Motivators would be carried out at the divisional level. No additional
construction is envisaged as each divisional area has several centers and
which can be used for training groups of 25-30 Motivators. Orientation
training of divisional staff would also be given at these centers. Provision
has been made under the project for a locally recruited consultant in com-
munications and extension who would complement existing FD training staff.
Public Relations Unit
3.46      The Public Relations Unit would be located in Calcutta and a Chief
Publicity Officer (CPO) would be located in the office of the Additional
CCF. Each Division (there are a total of 9 divisions) would have a Divisional
Public Relations Officer (DPRO) to coordinate all activities associated with
publicity and dissemination of information in his Division. Under the project
funds would be provided for staff and equipment to operate three mobile
audio-visual vans which would be controlled by CPO and which would support
DPRO in their work. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a Chief
Publicity Officer would be appointed not later than December 31, 1981.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.47      The project would provide funds to establish a Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit headed by a DCF and supported by statistical staff and enu-
merators. The unit would study different designs for project implementation,
assess villagers' acceptance of social forestry activities, determine survival
percent of the farm forestry component and carry out a mid-term evaluation of
the project. The unit would produce six monthly progress reports each June
and December giving details of staff position in each field unit and at head-
quarters; a summary of activities undertaken in the preceding six months;
and targets achieved and problems encountered during project implementation.



- 2,2 -
MEU would produce six-monthly progress reports. Funds would be provided for
a locally recruited consultant to advise on the design of survey studies and
assist in setting up systems for project monitoring. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the MEU consultant and DCF would be appointed not later
than December 31, 1981. Given the innovative nature of the schemes to encour-
age small farmers and landless laborers to plant trees, it was agreed at
negotiations that a study to be carried out at the end of the first project
planting season and executed by an independent agency, would provide informa-
tion for discussions between GOWB and IDA as to the effectiveness of these
schemes.
Fellowships
3.48      Fourteen 8-week overseas fellowships have been provided for senior
SFW staff in management and forestry extension. Total cost is estimated to
be US$168,000.
Consultants
3.49      Seventy-two man/months of local consultancy time has been provided
for stove technology, monitoring and evaluation and communication and exten-
sion. Total cost is estimated to be Rs 288,000 (US$36,000).
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01     Project costs are estimated at: Rs 348.65 M (US$43.5 M), of which
US$2.27 M would involve foreign exchange expenditures. Duties and taxes
included in total costs are estimated at US$1.3 M. Details of costs,
summarized below, are given in Annex 7, Table 1-Table 5.



- 23 -
Summary Cost Estimates
--Rs M--------   --------US$ 1--------  % Total
Component                 Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Cost           F.E.
Project Organization
Staff Costs               41.21     -      41.21    5.15       -      5.15    16.0         -
Operating Costs            8.20    5.44   13.64    1.02    0.68    1.70         5.4       0.68
Vehicles & Equipment       4.64    1.54    6.18    0.58    0.19    0.77         2.4        -
Building & Housing        11.81      -     11.81    1.47       -      1.47      4.6        -
Training & Fellowships   4.51    1.34    5.85    0.56    0.17    0.73           1.8       0.17
Research Unit              0.37    0.10    0.47    0.04    0.01    0.05         0.1       0.01
Plantings
Strip Plantations         88.73    2.74   91.47   11.09    0.34   11.43    35.5           0.34
Village Woodlots          16.60    0.51   17.11    2.07    0.06    2.13         6.6       0.06
Degraded Forests          18.28    0.56   18.84    2.28    0.07    2.35         7.4       0.07
Farm Forestry             49.51    1.53   51.04    6.18    0.19    6.37    19.8           0.19
Stove Unit                 0.43     -       0.43    0.05       -      0.05      0.1        -
Monitoring &
Evaluation               0.90    0.10    1.00    0.11    0.01    0.12         0.3       0.01
Total Base Cost          243.19   13.86  259.05   30.60    1.72   32.32   100.6           1.73
Physical Contingencies  10.08    0.30   10.38    1.26    0.03    1.29           4.3        -
Price Contingencies       74.95    4.27   79.22    9.36    0.53    9.89    31.0           0.53
GRAND TOTAL              330.22   18.43  348.65   41.22    2.28   43.50         -         2.27
4.02      Cost estimates are based on actual costs for similar nursery, plant-
ing and protection techniques at constant prices. Physical contingencies
have been added to meet unforeseen expenditures at rates of 10% for housing,
research and seed testing, and of 5% for nurseries and plantings. Price
contingencies 1/ have been calculated in accordance with Bank estimates of
future price movements in India.
1/   The following price contingency rates have been used:
1980/81              15.0%
1981/82               9.0%
1982/83               8.5%
1983/84-85/86         7.5%
1986/87 and after    6.0%



- 24 -
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      An IDA credit of US$29.0 M, representing 69% of total project costs
net of duties and taxes, is proposed:
Project Financing
G0WB/GOI      IDA     Total
US$ El              14.5      29.0       43.5
X                 .33.0    67.0      100.0
The credit would be made to GOI on standard terms and would be channeled to
GOWB on GOI's terms and arrangements for development assistance to the States.
GOWB has confirmed that the project has been included in the State's Sixth
Plan with sufficient allocation to cover the cost of the project. Written
confirmation of GOWB financial arrangements for the project has been received
by the Association. 1/
4.04      In order to ensure an early start of project actions and speedy
and effective implementation thereafter, retroactive financing, not exceeding
US$1.0 M would be provided from January 1, 1981 to the date of credit signing
for nursery expenditures incurred and advance work on land preparation and
plantation protection necessary for the 1981 planting season. Retroactive
financing would also cover additional st:aff who need to be in place by the
start of the planting season and purchase of equipment and vehicles required
for staff involved in tree planting.
C. Procurement
4.05      Direct plantation works (US$22.29 M), including nursery expenditures,
planting and protection works, and farm forestry would be scattered over a
wide area and would be carried out over different periods of time. Therefore,
contracts following competitive bidding would not be practical. Nursery
works, including the production of seedlings, would be carried out by force
account of the Social Forestry Wing (SFW) of the Forest Department. 1/ Land
preparation, planting and maintenance for village plantations would also be
carried out by SFW with varying degrees of participation from village panchayats
(para 3.06). 2/ Materials such as fencing wire, tools, and fertilizers would
1/   GOWB would need approximately US$1.0 M for plantation and maintenance
cost for years 7-10. This would not include maintenance cost for
degraded forests which continue to year 30.
2/   Force account procedure would ensure participation by the local population
and provide employment to small farmers and landless farm laborers living
in the project area.



- 25 -
be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with estab-
lished local procedures that are satisfactory to IDA. Contracts for civil
works (costing US$1.47 M) would be small and widely dispersed in time and
place and, therefore, would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding (ICB) and would be let following LCB, advertised locally, or by force
account and in accordance with established GOWB procedures that are satisfac-
tory to IDA. Design and supervision of housing and building construction
would be carried out by WBFD or Public Works Department (PWD). Vehicles
(US$0.34 M) would be purchased over five years, and, as adequate maintenance
and availability of spare parts would be of paramount importance, this would
necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already used by Govern-
ment departments. Thus, procurement would be by LCB under existing government
procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Imported research equipment would be
required in small lots, and would not, therefore, be suitable for procurement
under ICB procedures. These items and other miscellaneous equipment (US$0.38
M) would be bulked whenever possible and procured through LCB except where
valued at less than US$20,000 when they would be purchased by prudent shopping
through usual trade channels. Stoves would be built departmentally by STW. The
balance of project costs (US$7.0 M) would be staff salaries and related expendi-
tures, training and fellowships (US$0.85 M) and contingencies (US$11.18 M).
D. Disbursements and Audits
4.06      Disbursements under the credit would cover:
(a) 70% of expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, or
70% of locally procured vehicles and equipment;
(c) 70% of direct planting expenditures and SFW operating costs;
(d) 55% of incremental staff salaries;
(e) 100% of the cost of training and consultant services;
(f) 100% of costs of stoves;
(g) 80% of the cost of monitoring and evaluation; and
(h) an unallocated sum of US$0.8 M representing contingencies
on the above categories.
4.07      Disbursements for all force account work, salaries, local training,
civil works contracts costing less than Rs 300,000 and other procurement involv-
ing expenditures of less than Rs 150,000 for vehicles and equipment for which
it would not be practical to submit documents would be against statements of
expenditures certified by the Additional CCF of SFW. These certificates of



- 26 -
expenditure would be audited annually by the Government auditors and the audit
report submitted to IDA as soon as available. Supporting documentation for
these expenditures would be retained by the State Government for inspection
in the course of project review missions. Assurances were obtained that
separate accounts would be kept of expenditures made under the project. In
addition, certified copies of project accounts would be submitted to IDA within
nine months of the end of the fiscal year, such reports and audits would show,
inter alia, that the funds withdrawn were used for the purpose intended, that
goods have been received or work performed, and that payments have been made.
All reports wouldl be submitted by GOB to the Department of Economic Affairs
for subsequent transmission to IDA.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Social Forestry Wing
5.01      The project would establish a SFW in West Bengal's FD.  To handle
increased administrative responsibility, an Additional CCF has been appointed
and is directly responsible to CCF for all social forestry affairs. To cope
with increased planting and maintenance programs, two social forestry circles
covering a total of nine field units would be established and assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the first would be established not later than
December 31, 1981 and the second not later than December 31, 1983. Each unit
would be headed by a DC and assisted by an Asst. DFO. The nine field units
would cover all the State's 16 districts, i.e., one unit would cover more than
one district depending on the size of the forestry program to be implemented.
In addition, each field unit would be staffed by a FR who would supervise all
subordinate staff and be technically responsible for implementation of all
forest plantatior,s; DFR would supervise the physical implementation of planta-
tions and would be assisted by FEW and Motivators.
5.02      The expansion of the State's social forestry program and the estab-
lishment of a Social Forestry Wing would require two new cadres of field staff
to undertake extension activities at the village and farmer level. FEW would
be largely recruited from outside the Forestry Service and would have completed
their secondary school education. In addition, they would be given eight weeks
of training in forestry and extension methods which would be supplemented by
monthly orientation training given at the divisional level by the DFO or the
ADFO. 1/ FEW would be based at the block level 2/ and would encourage village
panchayats and faLrmers to participate in the social forestry program by
explaining to them the benefits to be derived. In addition, FEW would super-
vise planting and. forest protection and visit village Motivators at least
twice a month to supervise their work and solve problems arising from project
1/   For detailed information on training of FEW, see item 9 of Project File.
2/   360 FEW would be recruited, 1-2 FEW to cover one Community Development
Block, depending on the amount of forest land available.



- 27 -
implementation. Village Motivators 1/ would be based at the village level and
would be recruited either from among progressive farmers or village panchayat
members. Motivators would be given a three-week training in simple communica-
tion and extension techniques and a comprehensive orientation of the project
and its objectives. Training of Motivators would be given at the divisional
level by the DFO or ADFO and would be supplemented by a monthly orientation
training. Motivators would coordinate operations in village woodlot establish-
ment, private forestry and strip plantations. However, the main function of
the Motivator would be to promote the farm forestry scheme. He would explain
to farmers the benefits they would derive from the establishment of private
plantations and keep records of individual plantings. He would visit farmers
(individually or in groups) at least once a month to discuss problems that may
arise from project implementation. If these cannot be solved satisfactorily
the problems would be referred to the FEW or to the monthly orientation
divisional meeting. In addition, they would carry out simple administrative
activities such as monitoring of survival rate of trees, recording research
trials at the village and farmer's level and provide a useful link between
the FEW and the village panchayat and farmer. Motivators would be employed
part-time and receive an honorarium of Rs 1,200 per annum.
5.03      Each Division would be staffed by a Divisional Public Relations
Officer (DPRO) who would coordinate all publicity and communication activities
in his area and be directly responsible to the CPO who would be attached to
the office of the Additional CCF at headquarters. Research would be undertaken
by two research units (one for each circle) and headed by a research assistant
(for details on research program see Project File, item 8). A monitoring and
evaluation unit (para 3.47) would be set up headed by a DCF.
Project Coordination
5.04      Coordination of social forestry activities with programs of other
government agencies at state and district levels would be achieved through
two committees described below:
(a) the State Policy Review Committee would meet as often as
necessary but not less than once a year and would be chaired
by the Minister of Forests. Among its members would be the
Minister of Tribal Welfare; the Planning Adviser; Chairman of
a Zilla Parishad; the Secretary, Department of Forests; the
Secretary, Department of Agriculture; the Secretary, Department
of Tribal Welfare; the Secretary, Department of Panchayat; the
Land Reforms Commissioner; the Chief Engineers, Public Works
Department; the Chief Conservator of Forests; the Additional
Chief Conservator of Forests (SFW); the General Manager,
North-East Frontier Railway; the General Manager, Eastern
Railway; the General Manager South-Eastern Railway; and the
Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry for Northern and
Southern Circles.
1/   1,000 Motivators would be recruited, 1 Motivator to cover 1-4 Village
Panchayats, depending on the amount of forest land available.



- 28 -
(b) the District Policy Review Committee would meet at least once
every four months, would be chaired by the Chairman of the Zilla
Parishad, and would include among its members the Collector of
the District; the Executive Officer of the Zilla Parishad; two
local members of the Legislative Assembly; Executive Engineers
of the Public Works and Irrigation Departments; the Divisional
Railway Manager; the Deputy Conservator of Forests; the District
Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Officers; the District Tribal
Welfare Officer; and selected members of Scheduled Classes and
Scheduled Tribes practicing forestry within the District.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the State and District Review
Committees would be established not later than April 30, 1982.
Training
5.05      The training of Forestry Extension Workers (FEW) would be carried
out in two centers (one for each circle) in groups of 25-30. Most candidates
would be recruited from outside the forestry service, though some candidates
would be recruited from amongst forest guards. Training in basic concepts
of forestry would be given by FD instructors. Training in extension would be
given by extension officers from the Agricultural Department since FD does not
have instructors qualified in this work. In addition, provision has been made
for the recruitment of a local consultant in communication and extension to
help design an extension program and organize short training courses for
senior SFW staff. The training of FEW would last eight weeks and would be
supplemented by additional one-day mont:hly orientation training (para 5.07).
An outline of the curriculum is given in the Project File, item 9. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the communication and extension consultant
would be appointed not later than December 31, 1981.
5.06      Training of Motivators would be carried out at the Divisional
level in groups of 25-30. Candidates would be recruited from among progres-
sive farmers or village panchayat members. Each division would organize
21-day training sessions to be given by the DCF or ADFO and which would be
supplemented by additional one-day mont:hly orientation training (para 5.07).
5.07      Orientation training would be given to groups of 25-30 Motivators,
FEW, progressive farmers, deputy rangers and foresters. One-day training
sessions held monthly would be given at. the divisional level by the DCF or
the ADFO to approximately 150 field staff from the division.  These sessions
would concentrate Dn practical application of knowledge gained, group discus-
sion and problems esncountered in project implementation.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Yields and Product:ion
6.01      The main products of project plantations would be:  fuelwood,
bamboos, poles, animal feed, timber, edible fruits and pulpwood. Subsidiary
products would include medicinal oils. Summaries of yields and production
are given below and detailed in Annex 4, Table 3.



- 29 -
Estimated Yields and Production
Yields per ha at Full            Total Production
Product                  Development /a                 by the Project
('000)
Fuelwood and Smallwood m tons    3- 10                          4,975 m tons
Poles (pieces)                    70-150                      160,434 (pieces)
Bamboos Npieces)                150 average                   117,220 (pieces)
Timber m                           3-5                          1,261 m
Fodder m tons                      1-2                          2,400 m tons
Fruits m tons                      1-2                             450 m tons
/a   Based on performance in pure stands--figures given as a general guide, but
results in mixtures proposed for study under monitoring and evaluation.
Yields reflect differing survival rates under various ecological conditions.
Sharing of Produce Between Villagers
6.02      The sharing of produce between villagers would vary according to
the type of plantation and method of establishment.
(a) Village Woodlots: Under the three schemes harvesting of
fuelwood, poles, bamboo and timber would be undertaken by
villagers for wages and organized by the village panchayat
under the supervision of SFW. Under the free one ha demon-
stration scheme (para 3.06(a)), the panchayat would decide
whether forest produce would be distributed free or sold.
Under the "loan" and "supervised" schemes (para 3.06(b)(c)),
SFW would recover its loan or costs after the sale of forest
produce, the balance would either be sold by the panchayat
to establish additional village woodlots or the harvest
distributed among the villagers. However, in all cases the
village panchayat would take into consideration the needs
of the landless and poorer sections of the community.
(b) Farm Forestry: All produce (fuelwood, poles, bamboo, and
fodder) would be the property of the owner. Assuming a farm
family of six members would establish a mixed plantation of
0.25 ha on private or leased wasteland, at year 7 after
establishment, the farmer would harvest 5 m tons of fuelwood,
some 125 poles and about 100 bamboo pieces valued at current
prices at Rs 750, Rs 600 and Rs 400 respectively. At year 14
after establishment the farmer would again harvest 6 tons of
fuelwood, some 125 poles and about 250 pieces of bamboo valued
at Rs 900, Rs 600 and Rs 1000 respeitively. Assuming a per
capita annual consumption of 0.28 m or 160 kg of fuelwood
requirements (totalling 960 kg per farm family), a farm family
would be able to satisfy its fuelwood requirements from year 6
onwards and sell the balance (2 m ton) of the produce in the



- 30 -
open market. The cash flow indicates earnings to the farm
family of Rs 1000 at year 7 of the plantation and Rs 1900 a
year 14 of the plantation (Annex 1, Table 10). Pitting is
done in January/February and planting of seedlings in June.
Both activities do not clash with the farmer's agricultural
activities for paddy which are carried out in July/August
for planting and November/December for harvesting.
(c)  Rehabilitation and Reforestation of Degraded Forests:  Casual
labor would be employed by SFW. The villagers of the locality
would continue to be given 25% of harvestable produce free of
cost (para 3.16).
GOWB would provide to the Association, by December 31, 1981, the format and
content of model contracts for the establishment of village woodlots, strip
plantations and afforestation of private land (see Project File, items 2, 3,
4, and 5).
6.03      Fuelwood, poles, bamboo and timber from all areas but degraded
forests would be marketed either from roadsides or from sale depots through
the current practice of auctions. In view of the acute shortage of forest
products, no marketing difficulty is foreseen for any of the products gener-
ated by the project.
Financial Results
6.04      The benefits expected from the project are considerable and, there-
fore, it would be in the interest of GOWB to recover the major part of its
investment. GOWB would recover labor and material costs of planting, technical
supervision and overhead costs. The cost of seedlings would not be recovered
as GOWB has decided to provide free seedlings for all social forestry activities.
6.05      In accordance with the methocl of sharing benefits detailed in para
6.02, the project's financial rate of return to Government would, at constant
prices, be -3%; i.e., the return would pay off government investments in the
project (including staff recruitment) in 30 years and yield a 3% interest rate
on such investment at constant prices. The corresponding cost recovery index 1/
for the project over the entire period (30 years) would be 46%, if recovered
at 12% interest rate (see Annex 2, Table 1). This index is considered satis-
factory given that the project would provide employment to a generally dis-
advantaged section of the population, meet some of the basic needs of rural
communities, and yield substantial indirect benefits by improving the environ-
ment. Further, in India and other countries, the costs of advisory services
(e.g. agricultural extension and forestry services) are generally not recovered
from beneficiaries.
1/   Ratio of NPV financial return to Government to the NPV of financial
costs of Government.



- 31 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AIhD RISKS
Benefits
7.01      The increase in forest produce expected under the project would
benefit all of the State's rural population, but enhanced employment oppor-
tunities, cash incentives to farmers for private planting and the right of
village people to gather free fodder, fruit and other minor produce would
particularly favor the rural poor.
7.02      Fuelwood, Small Timber and Other Forest Produce.  From project year
12 onwards, the average annual production of fuelwood from all fuelwood planta-
tions would be 325,000 m tons. This would be sufficient to satisfy the needs
of about 1.63 M people at the current annual consumption level of 160 kg of
fuelwood per capita. Fruit production would be sufficient to provide 10
kg annually for some 7 M people (Annex 4, Table 3). The annual increase in
fuelwood production over 30 years (228,000 m tons) would be equivalent to
an annual saving of 600,000 tons of dung cake which could be utilized as an
organic manure to increase agriculture production. 1/ This would result in
an annual increase of 36,000 tons of foodgrains.
7.03      Conservation of Fuelwood.  The introduction of some 10,000 improved
stoves would result in savings of at least 5,000 m tons of fuelwood annually. 2/
Employment
7.04      Over the six year project period, 93,000 ha of idle or underutilized
land would be brought into productive use, largely through use of labor. 3/ In
total, some 15 N man-days would be required for project activities, equivalent
to 9,000 people fully employed for six years. In practice, most forestry
operations would be concentrated over a two to three month period each year.
This would mainly benefit the disadvantaged sections of the population since
most manual jobs, such as digging pits and trenches, are done by them.
Environment
7.05      The major environmental impact of the project plantations is ex-
pected to be on soil conservation, improvement to micro-climates and to some
extent on the restoration of soil fertility. Most of the tree species to be
planted are indigenous or are well known and naturalized in India and in many
of the plantation models up to 50% of the trees planted would be leguminous
and therefore, able to fix atmospheric nitrogen. In farm forests and village
plantations the protection from grazing and trampling, in association with
1/   1 m ton of fuelwood is equivalent to 2.63 tons of dung cake.
2/   Assuming a traditional stove consumes 1,000 kg of wood annually, an
improved stove would be expected to save at least 500 kg.
3/   Labor represents 94% of direct planting expenditure.



- 32 -
the cutting and harvesting of grasses and fodder would improve the infiltra-
tion of water into the soil, reduce groutnd temperatures and improve soil
structure. Strip plantations along roadsides, canalsides and railways would
assist in controlling gulley erosion and. improve conditions for people and
animals using the road.
7.06      Negative esffects of project plantations are expected to be few,
particularly as most of the plantation models contain mixtures of species
which are potentially more stable ecologically than monocultures and which
are likely to be sustainable for long-term production. However, if energy
farming or large scale monoculture plantations are used and rapid and repeated
removal of vegetative material takes place, situations might arise where the
soil nutrients are depleted. The first signs of this will become apparent
in the changes of productivity of the sites and these will be monitored.
Economic Rate of Return
7.07      Benefits.  The project's primary quantifiable benefits are increased
production of fuelwood, fodder, timber, bamboo and other minor forest produce
(fruit and edible oil). To obtain the incremental benefit stream, benefits
from existing production (i.e., without the project) have been deducted from
the total project output.
7.08      Efficiency Pricing.  Key assumptions and adjustments made in the
economic analysis of the project in effiziency prices are as follows:
(a) Economic Cost of Unskilled Labor. The wage rate for labor in
domestic prices is best reflecited in the free market wages,
which vary during the year.  During the planting and harvesting
seasons (June-July and October--November), there is virtually
full employment. At this time, the observed wage rate equals
Rs 6.0/man day; this rate has been applied to project labor
employed in those months (30% of total project labor). In the
period of November to April, when the bulk of project activities
would take place (70% of required labor), the observed wage rate
is about Rs 3.0/man day. The financial cost of project labor was
estimated as a weighted average of prevailing rates during peak
and low labor demands at Rs 3.9/man day. In the economic
analysis, a shadow wage rate of Rs 3.12 or 80% of the financial
cost has been used as the economic cost of unskilled labor.
(b) Border Price Ratios. Different. conversion factors have been
used for the major categories cf project costs to reflect the
different degrees of distortion. to which they are subject to
in the Indian economy in relation to international (border)
prices:



- 33 -
Category           % of Project Cost      Conversion Factor
Unskilled labor            63                  0.80
Staff Salaries             16                  0.80 /a
Materials                   6                   0.72 /b
Vehicles & Equipment        2                  0.90
Buildings                   5                  0.75 /c
Others                      8                  0.80
/a   Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).
/b   Appraisal mission estimates.
/c   Construction C.F. as calculated for Gujarat Social
Forestry Project Report (1943a-IN).
(c)  Output Prices.  Financial prices of fuelwood, poles, bamboo
and other minor output multiplied by the Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) 0.80, have been estimated to represent the
economic value of these items (Annex 4 Table 2).
7.09      Internal Rate of Return.  Since overhead costs do not vary with the
size of any particular plantation model, a separate rate of return (ROR) for
each model was not calculated. However, as indicated in Annex 3, Tables I
and 2, NPV for each model has been calculated separately on an incremental
basis and each model would make a positive contribution. Over a 30-year
period, the overall rate of return would be 27.9%. Net present values and
sensitivity analysis on NPV and ROR are presented in Annex 3, Table 2.
Project Risks
7.10      The project faces no major risk in termis of an unsatisfactory rate
of return since the ROR could withstand huge cost increases up to 100% and
substantial price drops (up to 50%) or large losses, such as destruction by
livestock (up to 50%), each of which is improbable (Annex 3, Table 3). Cost
estimates are based on actual costs of past plantings. Forest products are
becoming increasingly expensive as a result of the ever-growing shortage.
Protection of project plantings would be no more riskier than the methods
previously used with a large degree of success on similar plantings.
7.11      There is a risk that free distribution of seedlings might lead
to some waste. Statistics regarding the survival rate of trees distributed
to the public are not reliable. For this reason, the project monitoring and
evaluation unit would continuously monitor the actual survival rate through
spot checks (para 3.47) and would study the overall impact of the free dis-
tribution of seedlings.
7.12      The establishment of village woodlots may run into similar diffi-
culties as in the Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat projects where there has been
lack of leadership, insufficient incentives and socio-economic inequalities
in village panchayats (para 3.08). However, since panchayat elections held
in June 1978, there has been a marked revival of panchayat activity in West
Bengal with a greater representation of young, educated, small farmers.
Furthermore, over the past three years the State has assigned to panchayats



- 34 -
numerous public works and reconstruction programs which have been implemented
satisfactorily. GOWB is now eager to establish communal village woodlots
through village panchayats, but for the reasons mentioned in para 3.08, the
original GOWB proposal has been reduced from 12,000 ha to 6,000 ha, which
should be well with:in the capabilities of the organization established under
the project.
7.13       There is a risk that village panchayats may not be sufficiently
well organized to as;sume responsibility for the efficient management of strip
plantations after SFW has recovered its direct costs.  However, because the
beneficiaries are li-ving nearby, it is expected that the local population
would pressure their village panchayats into protecting their interests and
assume the management of these plantations (para 3.13). Moreover, further
improvement of the panchayat system during the project period should enable
most village panchayats to assume this responsibility.
7.14       The introcluction of more efficient wood burning stoves in social
forestry projects in India and Nepal has had little success partly because
there has been a failure to adapt stoves to different climatic and social
needs, and partly because management of social forestry projects have not
made a determined ef fort to introduce improved stoves in rural areas (para
3.32).  The improved stove would save 30-50% fuelwood and allow the smoke
to escape through a constructed smokestack. GOWB felt that efforts should
continue to be made to introduce improved stoves in rural areas, as at present
the traditional stove burns an excessive quantity of dung and wood, and emits
excessive smoke (when cooking is done indloors) which has caused respiratory
and eye diseases especially to women and children.
7.15       Overall risks are low.  Nevertheless, to optimize the objectives of
the project, particularly with regard to community activities and the impact
of farm forestry, an interim evaluation of the project would be carried out
in year 4 to draw lessons for future act:ivities of the program (para 3.04).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOWB would submit a mid-term
evaluation report to IDA for joint discussion by March 31, 1984.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01       During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  GOWB would keep separate accounts of expenditures made under
the project and they would be audited annually and the audit
report submitted to IDA as sooni as available (para 4.07).
(b)  the CPO in charge of the Public Relations Unit and the DCF
in charge of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be
appointed not later than December 31, 1981 (paras 3.46,
3.47 and 5.05);
(c)  the consultants for stove technology, monitoring and evalua-
tion and communication would be appointed not later than
December 31, 1981 (paras 3.33, 3.47 and 5.05);



- 35 -
(d)  two new circles for social forestry would be established,
the first by December 31, 1981 and the second by December
31, 1983 (para 5.01);
(e)  the State and District Committees would be established by
April 30, 1982 (para 5.04); and
(f)  GOWB would prepare and submit to IDA by March 1984, a mid-
term evaluation on the progress of the project (para 7.15).
8.02      In order to prepare for the 1981 planting season, it is recommended
that there be retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million to cover nursery,
staff, construction, equipment and vehicle expenditures from January 1, 1981
until the signing of the proposed project (para 4.04);
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$29.0 million on standard IDA terms. The
Borrower would be the Government of India.



0  '0  0  '2   -  2-  0        -        0                                                    0                 02       0'               -,                0            O         o    '.      o     .    0       0          0-       0.           0             0        00           0        02.                    -            0        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -   - -     - -   -         - 
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -0                                                                                       0             0     0             0     0      0            0                      0 -00-                        0.-00-0 0--20 -0 -                                                                                            0  -.---  -                               00-0 0-0                                          00--.00-
-0       0     0- -    -0   0       - - --                    - - --                - ---            -    -   -0                                                                      0       0                 0        0       0         -       2-0                    -              2         00-0                                             0 -               0 -                                                                   000000                                       00-0-20
- 0  -     00  -   -             0              - - --- -.              -    -   -   -0   - 0-   -      0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -



INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Model I -Strps on Main Roads_(  ha)
Years   0       1      2       3      4      5       6      7      8      9      10     1!     12      13     14     15     16      17     18      19     20     21      22     23      24     25-30
COSTS (Rs)
Labor                                875    2238  365    260    260   260                               -
Materials                             60      342 
Total                                935    2580  365   200   260    260
GROSS PRODUCT
Fuelwood/Smallwood (mt)               -        -     -      -       -      --    21       -    1.25     -   3.75    --    21        -     1.25      -   3.75    -        15     -       -    1.25     -      3.75    12        -
Poles (no)                            -        -     -      -       -      -1000          -      -             -         1000       -       -              -     -      500     -       -      -               -   400         -
Timber (m3)                           -        -     --     -      -       -      -       -      -      -      -       --     -     -        -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -       -       -
Bamboo (no)                           -        -     -      -      -       -      -      -       -
Fodder (mt)                           -        1     1       1      1      1      1       1      1      1       1      ;      1     1        1      1      1      1       1      1      1      1       1       1       1       1
Fruits (mt)                           -        -     -      -      -       -      -     1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6       2      2     2       2       2      2     2        2     2       2      2      2        2       2       2
INCOME
Fuelwood/Smallwood  (150 Rs/mt)  -             -     -      -      -       -  3150        -  187.5      -  562.5       -  3150      -    187.5      -  562.5    -    2250       -    187.5    -  562.5         -   1800
Poles (5 Rs each)                     --       -     -      -              -  5000        -             -              -  5000      -        -      -      -      -    2500     -       -      -       -       -               -
Timber (400 Rs/m3)                    -        -     -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -       --
Bamboo (4 Rs each)                    -        -     -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -              -     -       -       -      -     -        -     -       -      -      -        -       -       -
Fodder (15 Rs/mt)                     -       15    15     15     15      15     15     15      15     15     15      15     15    15      15      15     15    15       15    15       15    15     15       15     15       15
Fruit (200 Rs/mt)                     _        -    _       -       -      _      _    320    32        0     20    400    400  400       400    400    400  400        400  400      400  400    400        400    400      400
Total                                 -       15    15     15      15     15  8165    335    522.5 335  897.5  41.,  8565  415  502.5    415  977.5 415    5165  415    602.5 415    997                     415   2215      415
Expenditures incurred by Government prior to project, generally associated with tree nurseries.
. 1~



-38                               ~~~~~~~~ANNEX 1
'|   |             -9t        * "~*   , no|I                                    Tsble 3
101 e                I       InI  I   -11 
'I~~~~~~~I IIn-It
l     I I       %                 oc I     | 01 110I
- I   '   I '    n -   I -         N  '     -al
91~~~- 104    . .**                            91o
'~ ~            ~'   In'I             In    1'0
_-  -f                        *             0I        I ,,   0  A
o   It               l          .,C ,-n ,,                     I
*-I           II8         140                 CC   < o    -10.1
-    9 91   1           ,,,e~001 ,,,SnI
4l 1  I                 CI        .-I       In        InOCS
>:1 -$    ' I                   '             n     I '  'n 1
I   Cl        -        - In        noo
'~~ ~ Ie I                          vn l   o C
_I                   I, I           001Xl
I  >   1'o  .     ,         , ,    ,0 @   In~
I  C  10               -                   In  In
0  ON
-      g     v.4  110           .  oC
DOO.I                      I    110110  o>    | +



INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Modol      - Strp~RN.                   (1 ha)
Year     '          1       2      3      4       5       6      7       B      9       10       11 i     2       13      14       15       16      17       18       19      20       21       22       23      24       25-30
Cost, (Ro)
Labor                    1,010   3,379       -      898    390   390
Material                     60     413      -       -       -     -
Total             1,070   3,792       -      89B    390   390
Groaa Product      llnit2
Fuel7saa-1 ood    Mt                                                      22           1.5             4.5                 22            1.5              4.5                16               1.5              4.5                12
Pdle         d    Mt                                                    1,400                                           t,400                                               700                                                   500
Tibder             cm
Fodder             Mt        1         1       1       1      1      1      1       1          1       1        1        1       1       1       1       1         1       1        1        1        1        1        1       1         1
Fruits             Mt                                                       2       2     2        2      2          2       2       2      2         2      2          2      2         2       2         2       2        2       2          2
Cross Inco-e    Price(Rs)
Fuel/soallwood    150                                                   3,300           225             675             3,300             225              675            2,400                225              675             1.800
Poles                5                                                  7.000                                           7,000                                             3,500                                                 2,500
Timber             400
Bamboo               4
Fodder              15               15       15      15     15    15      15      15    15       15     15         15      15      15    15         15     15         15    15         15      is        15      15       15      15         15
Fruits             200                                                    400    400   400       400    400        400    400      400   400       400    400         400   400        400    400        400    400       400    400         400
Total                       15      15      15      15    15 10,715    415   640       415  1,090        415 10,715       415   640       415  1,090        415 6,315         415    640       415  1,080        415  4,715        415



VEST BENGAL. SOCIAL FORESTRLY PROJECT
YOOt  0  1  2  3   4       5      6       7       8       9       10      ~~~      ~~~      ~~~      ~~~~~~~~11  12  13  14  iS  16  17   16       19       20       21        22       23       24       25-30
Costs (Re)
Labor                         954  2,223       365    260    260    260
Mat.rials                      50    342                -       -
Total                       1,004  2,565       365    260    260    260
gross Produ.t        IUni
fivesoodf/erallso.d  Mt                                                         17            1.1             3.3                17                1.1              3.3                13                 113.3                               10
Poles                 N0o                                                   1,000                                             1,000                                                   S00                                                    300
Timb,er               en3
Bamsboo               R.                                               160    160    160    160    160    160          160      160      160       160    160       160      160      160      160       160       160    160       160      160       160
Fodder                Mt                I        1       1       1       I       I       1      I       1       I        1        I        I         1       1        1        I        1         1         I        I       1        1        1         1
Fruits                Mt                                                                5       5       5       5        5        5        5         5       5        5        5        5         5         5        5       5        5        5 
Gross borne    19i,tfla
Pos1e7-ml51sood      150                                                    2,550             165             495             2,550                165              495             1,450                165              A95.            i.,V              6.
Poles                  5                                                    5,OOC                                             5,000                                                 2. iO                                                  1.500
Timber               400
BSboo'                 4                                              640    641.   640    640    640    640           640      640      640       640    640       640      61.0     640      640       640      640    640        640      640       640
Fodder                is               15       15      15      15      15      15     15      15      15      15       15       15       13        15      15       15       15       13       15        15        15     i5        15       15        15
rrults               200                                      -                       01.     00 000 1.000  j,- L             I J..Q   I~Q   .000   1.000 00    1.000   I 000   I.000    1 000    1 000   I.000  I.000   I.~ L0              00      I Q
Total                                  15       15      15      15    658,205  1,655  1,820  1,655  2,150   1,655   9.205   1,655    1 870  1,635   2.150   1,655   6,10 1i   I f                      1:620    1,633  2,150   1,655   4,655    1.655



INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Model V - Village Woedlots  HIts (1 1a)
YEARS                   1       2       3       4       5       6      7       8       9       10       11       12       13       14       15        16      17        la       19       20       21       22       23       24        25-30
Va  Dem.ostrgtio   (WRs)
Labor                       1,293    525       422    422
MKterials                      50      _        -       -
Total                       1,343    525       422    422
Vb  S.pervised
Labor                       1,293    525       422    422    310
Materials                      50    -          _               _
Total                       1,343    525       422    422    310
Vc  Loan
Labor                         293  2,000
Materials                      50      -
Total                         343  2,000
GroBs Product        Umit
F.el/amallwood        Mt                                                       21                                       10                                                                                                                    42
Fo1es                 No                                                      500                                      250
Timber                cm60
Bamboo                No                                              150    150    150    150    150    150           150      150      150       150    150       150      150      150      150        150      150    150       150      150        150
Fodder                Mt                2        2       2       2       2       2      2       2       2       2        2        2        2         2       2        2        2        2        2          2        2       2        2        2          2
Gross Income       Price(Rs)
F.el/omallwood       120                                                    2,520                                    1,200                                                                                                                 5,040            Oct
Poles                  5                                                    2,500                                    1,250                                                                                                               2
Timber               500                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24.000
BTmboo                 4                                              600    600    600    600    600    600           600      600      600       600    600       600      600      600      600        600      600    600       600      600        600
Fodde                 15                   30       30      30      30  30         30      3 0  30             30       30           3,0   3        30      30       30   630          30       30             30  30  30            30       30         30
Total1                                 30       30      30      30    630  5,650    630    630    630    630   3,080            630      630       630    630       630      630      630      630        630      650    630       630  29,670         630



WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Slodel SI   Vi lageWoodl_ts   Alluovial Site  (1 ha)
YEAR      0       1       2       3      4       5       6       7      8       9       10       11       12       13       14      15       16       17       18       19       20       21       22       23       24       25-30
V a  Oeuonstration   (Rs)
L-bor                         825  1,251      355    260
Materials                      50    311       -      _
Total                         875  1,562      355    260
N b 1upervised
Labor                         825  1 Z        355     260    260   260
Mat-rialo                      50    311       _      __
Total                         875  1,562      355    260    260    260
V c  Loan
Labor                        425  2,000
Materiala                      50    - _
Total                         475  2,000
Groas Product        Unit
F.el/.allwood         Mt                                                      21               1               3               21                                                                                                          42
Pole.                 No                                                     500                                              500
Timber                (t'us                                                                                                                                                                                                                60
Baaboo                No                                              150    150    150    150    150    150         150      150      150       150    150       150      150     150       150       150      150    150       150      150       150
Fodder                Mt                2       2       2       2       2      2       2       2       2       2       2        2        2         2       2        2        2        2        2         2        2       2        2        2         2
Eooalypt.s oil        Kg                        5                              5                                                5                                                                                                          10
Groan In-        Pri.e,R, 
Foel/a_lloood        150                                                   3,150             150            450             3,150                                                                                                      6,300             0 x
Poles                  5                                                   2,500                                            2,500
Tilober              400                                                                                                                                                                                                              24,000
Ba.boo                 4                                             600    600    600    600    600    600          600      600      600       600    600       600      600     600      600        600      600    600      600      600        600
Fodder                15               30      30      30      30      30     30      30      30      30     30       30       30       30        30      30       30       30       30       30        30       30      30       30       30        30
Totalypt.o           100 oil-                 500                            Soo 500                      1,080      630      500                                                                                                      1,000
Total                                  30     530      30      30    650  6.780    630    780   -630  1,080          630   6780        630       630   -630    6-30        6630    630    -630         63        30     60       630  31.930       *3



INDIA
Moude) VII -- Vi boo Sodlot-:  Later eo (I ha)
YEAR            01      1                3       4       5       6         3       8        9       10        15       12        13       14        15       16        17       10        15        20       21        22       23        24       25-30
vISa. Demnonstrationl   (Bs)
Labor                         1,031   1,145       365     260
Materials                        50     311        -       _
Total                         1,081   1,456       365     260
Vllb i6.S       d
Labor                         1,031   1,145       365     260    260      260
MlterEaol                        50    311
Tbtal                         1,081   1,456       365     260     260      260
Labor                           527  2,000
Materials                       520      -
Total                           577  2,000
Gro00 Prodoct         Snit
Fueitsm,aEllwood       Mt                                                           21                1               3                 21                                                                                                                 30
Pole'                                                                              500                                                 500
Ti=ober                e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60
Ba.boo                  No                                        150    15          0     1         50 150  150    150       150       150      150        150     550       150                150      150        150       150     150       150      150        150
Fodder                 Mt                 2         2       2       2        2       2       2        2       2       2         2         2        2          2       2         2        2         2        2          2         2       2         2         2         2
E-calyptus Oil         Kg                           5                                5                                                    5                                                                                                                10
Unit
Gross S oo-be       PrSe0(Ro)
Fueltsmallw(.od       150                                                       3,150              150              450              3,150                                                                                                              4,500
PSole                    5                                                      2,500                                                2,500
Timber                400                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24,000
Bamboo                   4                                                 600     600     600      600     600     600       600      600       600       600      600      600       600       600      600        600       600     600      600       600        600
Fodder                  15               30        30      30      30       30      30      30       30      30       30       30        30       30         30      30        30       30        30        30        30        30      30        30        30         30
otalpt-   il          100                         3 500   _       _        _     _500                                                 _5_00      _                                                                                                     30,130 00
Total                                    30       530      30      30      630  6,200      630      700     630  1,080        630   6,700        630       630      630      630       630       630      630        630       630     630       630  30,130         630



WEST BEN..AL SOCi'A.. FORESTRY P-ROJECt
Fat, Porestry VITT - M'''O (I h)
Years      0       1       2      3       4                      7       8       9       10       11       12      13       14       15       16       17       18       19       20       21       22       23       24       25-30
Lootr                        294    600/-
M.teri.lo                      50
Total                         343    600
Free Se-dligs                     /1
L.bar                         700 -
Materi-co                      50
ToteS                         750
Gross Product       llit
Fueliood7smAilwood  i.t                                                       21                                      10                                                                                                                  42
Polet                 n0.                                                    500                                     250
Timber                cm                                                                                                                                                                                                                  60
oBmooo                no.                                            150    150    150    150    150    150          150      150      150       150    150       150     150      150      150       150      150    150       150      150       150
Fodder                mt                2       2       2       2       2      2       2       2       2      2        2        2        2         2       2        2       2        2        2         2         2      2        2        2         2
Gross fComo        oite(Rs)oS
Foel/mmellwood       120                                                   2,520                                   1,200                                                                                                               5,040
Polee                  5e                                                  2,500                                   1,250                                                                                                                                 01.4
Timber               400                                                                                                                                                                                                              24,000
Bemboo                 4                                             600    600    600    600    600    600          600      600      600       600    600      600      600      600      600       600      600    600       600      600       600
Fodder                15              30       30      30      30     30      30      30      30      30     30       30       30       30        30      30       30      30       30       30         30      30      30       30       30        30
Totl                                   30      30      30      30    630  5,650    630    630    630    630   3,080           630      630       630    630      630      630      630      630       630      630    630       630  294670        630
Cost of hired labor for n-r-ery work.
- Cash paymoet to -over farmers' labor costs 'or land preparation, plantI1R aod maineance.
n.h. The rost of form labor (for-ers' lahor ftipot for land pr-p-ration  -od establishent)
hbo  beon iocluded io the economic analysis    project cot.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Farm Forestrv IX - All_vial bites (1 ha)
Year-         0       1       2       3        4       S       6       7       a      9         10       11.      12       13        14       15       16       1l        1Y    19           20       71        72       E3       24        251-p
Costs        Rs                   /1      /2
Labor                          425 -  600
Materials                       50      -
Total                          475     600
Free Seedlings                     /1
Labor                          700 -
Materials                       50
750
Gross Praduet        UEit
Fuel/small.oad        Mt                                                          21               1                3                21                                                                                                              42
Poles                  Na                                                        500                                                500
Timber                cn3                                                                                                                                                                                                                            60
Bamboo                Na                                                 150     150     150    150      150     150       150      150      150        150     150      150       150      150      150        150      150     150       15O      150        150
Fodder                Mt                 2         2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2         2        2        2          2       2        2         2        2        2          2        2        2        2         2         2
Escalypitas Oil       Kg                           5                               5                                                  5                                                                                                               10
Grass Income       PineLRs)-
T.eS/S -ilwood        150                                                     3,150              150             450              3,150                                                                                                           6,300
Pales                   5                                                     2,500                                              2,500
Timber             300-500                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24,000
Bamboo                  4                                                600    600    600    600    600    600           600       600      600       600      600      600       600      600      600        600      600     600       600      600        600
F.dder                 15               30       30       30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30        30       30       30         30      30       30        30       30       30         30       30       30       30        30        30
E-ualypts- Oil  100                    _        500  _  _                        500  _  _    _ _                                   500                                                                                                           1000
Total                                   30      530       30      30    630  6,780       630    780    630  1,080          630   6,780       630        630     630      630       630      630      630        630      630      630      630  31,930         630
- Cost of hired labor for ---osery work.
- Cash payment to 00000 farmers' labor costs. for lad preparation, plattiog and naistosaace.
s.b.  The cast of farm  labor (farmers' labor input for land p-eparatio- sad establishme-t)
ha. bhee  inluded is the e              -o1omic  analysis as project cost.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Farm Forestry X - Laterite Areas (I ha)
Years              O 1    2       3             5      6      7      8       9      10    11    12    13        14     15   16        17     18    19      20     21      22     23     24     25-30
tasor                      52/-  600 /2
Materi  s                   50       -
Total                    577      600
Tree Seedlings                 /I
Labor                      700/-
Materials                   fD
Total                    750
G   rc-s P-ct  'UnitT
Fuel/-o  Ilwood    Mt.                                                  21
Poles               no.                                                500
Timber             oi3
Bamboo              no.                                           50    Iso    150    150    150    150    ISO    IS0 150    150    150    150    150                       50O 150    150    150    150  ao l 
Fodder              Mt.      2       2      2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2      2       2      2      2      2      2      2      2       2      2      2      2       2       2       2
Eucalyptus oil   kg.                 5                                   5                                          5                                                                                     10
Gross Income Price (Rs' /3
Fuel/smallwood   150                                                 3150            150           450          3150
Poles                5                                               2500                                       2500                                                                                   6300
Timber        300-500                                                                                                                                                                                 24000                  a
3cmboo              4                                          600   600   600   600   600    0oo   600   600   600   600   600   600    600   600    600    600    600    600    600                   600      600
Fodder              15              30    30      30      30     30     30     30     30     30    30      30     30      30     30     30     30     30     30     30      30     30     30      30      30      30
Eucalyptus         10       -             500                 ____   500                                         500                                          _000  -_-
Total                              30   530      30      30   630  6780  7cC 630    700   630   l0   630  67C0    6330        630   630   630   630   630    630   630   630
- Cost of hired labor for rnsrsery work.
2 Cash payment to cover farmers labor costs for land preparation, planting and maintenance.
n.b.  The corst  f f,rm labor (farmoers Il-bor input for latid preparation and establishment) has been included in the economic analysis of the project.
/3 Less harvesting costs.



iND IA
WEST BENGAT. SOCIAL FORESTRY  PROJECT
Model XI - Rehabilitationi of DeE  -ided Forests bv Coppicing  (I ha)
Years       0     1      2     3     4      5     6      7     8     9       10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24   25-30
Costs    Rs
Labor                           3(13  200   155   155   155   155   155   155   155    155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155
Materials                                       -        -         -         -        -       -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -
Total                           300   200   155   155   155   155   155   155   155    155   155   155   155   155   155    155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155   155
Gross Product    Unit
Euel/Ssl, iwood    mu-          2.5          1.8   1.8   1.8                                  7         1.8   1.8   1.8                                7          1.8   1.8   i.8
Poles                no.                                                                   450                                                       450
Timber               m3
Bamboo                                   I      I     I      I     I     1      1     1       1     I      I     1     I      1     I      I     1      1     1     I      1     I      1     I      I
Fodder               mt.
Gross Incorie       ,rice(Rs)  375           2.0   270   270                              1050          270   270   270                             1050          270   2,70   270
Fuel/SmalIwood    150                                                                     4500                                                     4500
Poles                  10
Tisiber             30-500
Bamboo                 -
Fodder                 15                      15     IS    IS                 5                   15    15    15    IS    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15
Total                           375    15  285    3    ?          15    1      15    15  55             2 28 15  F 5   2  25    15    15    15  -F  -55b     15  285   7       285    15   7      -T5
H 
o 12Z



INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Model XII -- Planting_2f Degraded Sal Forests (1 ha)
Years        0      1       2      3       4     5       6      7      8      9       10   ff1       2   13       14    15    16    17    18           19    20    21     22      2
Costs     Rs
Labor                     1011  1035   363   260        200  1600   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260    260   260    260    0T                       260    260
Materials                   70   31l
Total                    1081  1346   363   260    200  1600   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260   260    260   260                            260    260
Gross Product   Unit
FulI/smallwood   mt.                                                    17             1             3           17                                                                                    63
Poles              no.                                                800                                       800                                                                                    9
Timber             m3
Bamboo             no.
Fodder             mt.               I      I      I       I      I      I      I             I      I      I      I      I      I      I      I      I      !      I      I      i      1      1       1
Eucalyptus oil   kg                       20                           20                                        Zu                                                                                    40
Gross Income  Price (Rs)
Full/smallwood   150                                                 2550           150           450          2550                                                                                 9450
Poles               5                                                4000                                      4000
Timber        300-500                                                                                                                                                                              36000                - >
Bamboo            4
Fodder             15               15    15    15    15    15          15    15      I     15 I1             IS    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15               15    15 )       rx
Eucalyptus        -0      _-            2000                         2000                                      2000                   _ 8565                                                        4000    - 15 
Total                             15  2015      1S    Is    IS   8565    15   16.5    15   465    15  8565             15    IS    1S    15    15    15    15           IS    15    IS    15  49465          15



ANNEX 2
-49-                                 Table 1
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial Costs and Returns to GOW;-
IKS M!
Year                     Benefits                Costs              Net Returns
1                        0.08                 8.27                   -8.19
2                        0.20                20.75                  -20.55
3                        0.48                31.69                  -31.21
4                        0.77                40.17                  -39.40
5                        1.21                45.95                  -44.74
6                       1.69                 28.88                  -27.19
7                       5.11                  8.96                   -3.85
8                      13.88                  8.00                    5.88
9                      14.05                  6.01                    8.04
10                       27.82                 4.21                   23.61
11                       35.94                 2.59                   33.35
12                       29.56                 2.59                   26.97
13                       10.82                 2.59                    8.23
14                       15.66                 2.59                   13.07
15                       20.01                 2.59                   17.42
16                        7.63                 2.59                    5.04
17                        7.56                 2.59                    4.97
18                        1.11                 2.59                   -1.48
19                        1.86                 2.59                   -0.73
20                        2.91                 2.59                    0.32
21                        6.30                 2.59                    3.71
22                        8.45                 2.59                    5.86
23                       10.83                 2.59                    8.24
24                       13.26                 2.59                   10.67
25                       12.34                 2.59                    9.75
26                       26.02                 2.59                   23.43
27                       37.23                 2.59                   34.64
28                       37.39                 2.59                   34.80
29                       38.74                 2.59                   36.15
30                        3.42                 2.59                    0.83
Financial ROR         =  2.8%
PV of costs at 12%   = 129.8
PV Benefits              64.7
Cost Recovery Index at 12% =  647  = 45.6%
142.0
-Does not include farmer's contribution in land and labor.



-50-
ANNEX 3
INDIA                                          Table 1
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(Rs M)
PV        PV                  NPV as % of         Switching Values a/
Costs    Benefits    NPV       Present Costs    Costs %        Benefits %
Components
Strip Plantations             41.5       132.1      90.6        218.6           218.6         - 68.6
Village Woodlots                8.9        31.3     22.4         250.6          250.6         - 71.5
Farm Forestry                 36.8       284.4    247.6         672.9           672.9         - 89.1
Degraded Forests              10.9        49.7      38.8         354.6          354.6         - 78.0
All components                98.1       497.6    399.5         407.0           407.0         - 80.3
All components less I         56.7       365.5    308.8         544.9           544.9         - 84.5
All components less II        89.2       466.3    377.1         422.7           422.7         - 80.9
All components less III       61.3       213.2    151.8          247.5          247.5         - 71.2
All components less IV        87.2       447.9    360.7         413.6           413.6         - 80.5
Total Plantings
including overheads         163.2       497.6    334.4         204.8           204.8         - 67.2
a   The switching value is the value of the variable for which the NPV discounted at 12% is zero.  It
may be interpreted as the value of the variable for which the project would be uneconomic.



-51-                                                          ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Variable:                         Appraisal Value                                % Change
Benefits from:
Fuelwood                             128.5                                       -260.3
Poles                                142.8                                       -234.2
Bamboo                                51.7                                        -330.1
Timber                               101.3                                       -647.3
Fodder                                 7.3                                     -4,552.2
Fruit                                 35.2                                       -950.9
Oil                                   30.9                                     -1,083.1
Total Benefits                       497.6                                        -67.2
Costs
Material                               7.2                                      4,556.0
Labor                                 91.0                                        367.6
Building & Housing                     7.1                                      4,699.7
Vehicle & Equipm.                      4.5                                      7,453.4
Staff                                 33.8                                        988.6
Other                                 19.7                                      1,700.0
Total Costs                          163.2                                        204.8
II.  Sensitivity Analysis on ROR
Benefits       Downr 20%      Down 50%         Lag 1 Year          Lag  2 Years
Costs         28.9           25.0          17.7               24.9                21.9
Up 20%        25.7           22.0           15.1              22.2                19.5
Up 50%        22.0           18.6           12.2              19.1                16.8
up 100%       17.7           14.6            8.7              15.4                13.4



INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
/1
incremental Costa ana Benetits Streams at _arKteL Pri-.e-
(Rs 1)
Costs        _       _     -Benefits
12             Building &    Vehicle &i                                                                                                                 Benefit
Years    Labor/  Material    _ousinq         cquiprnent    Staff    Other    Total    Fuelwoud   Poles   Timber   Fodder   Bamboo    Fruit    Oil         Total    Net Benefit
1         7.52      0.67        4.23           2.53        '4. 48    2.16     21.59        0.11    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.11      - 21.49
2        18.94      1.75        4,16           1.57        6.37      2.67     35.21        0.26    0,00     0.00      0.02     0.00      0.00    0.00     0.27      - 34.94
3        28.75      2.76         2.31          1.27         7.32     3.60     46,ul        0.65    M,O    0.00       0,15     0.00      0.00    1.22      2.02     - 43.99
4        36.72      3.23         I.O0          0./9         7.32     3.87     52.93        1.02    0.00      0.00     0.39     0.00      0.00    3.75      5.16     - 47.77
5        4227       3.46         0.20          0.12         7.96     3,86     57.87        1.61    0.00     0.00      o.67     0.00      0.00    7.09     9.36      - 48.51
6        27.19      2.29         0.00          0.00         7.96     3.24     40.68        2.27    0,00      0.00     1.01     0.97      0.00    8.01    12.20      - 28,48
7         8.69      0.0          0)00          0.00         7.96     2.96     19.61        7.77    7.04     0.00      1.37     4.37      0.08    9.21    29.84         10.23
8         2 41       0.0         0.00          0.00         4.26     2.96     14.66       24.03   25.37      0.00     1.43     3.97      0.94    9.20    64.94         50.28
9         5.56      0.0          0.00          0.00         3.80     2.96     J2.32       46.13   48.12      0.00     1.51    21.30      2.62    7.09   126.7/        114.45
10       4.09       0.0         0.00           0.00        3.36      2.96     10.4!      55.46   59.41I    0.00       1.59    32.34     5.50    8.01   162.3i        151.28
11        2.46      0.0         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42      66.32   71.33      0.00      1.59    43.45     9.66    9.16   201.51        192.47
12        2. L6     0.0         0.00           0.00        3.00      2.96      8.42      70.34   76.74      0.00      1.59    43.145    14.30    9.00   215.42       206.38
13        2.46      0.0         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42       18.57   16.16     0,00      1.59    43.45    18.46    1.22    99. 45        90.41
14        2.46      0.0         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42       36.72   36.49     0.00      1.59    43.45    18.46    3.75   140.46        131.42
15        2.46      0.0         0.00           0,00        3.00      2.96      8.42      60.92   61.27      0.00      1.59    43.45    18.46    7.09   192.78        18V- 74
16        2.46      0.0         0.00           0.00        3.00      2.96      8.42      64.10   57.64      0.00      1.59    43,45    18.4S    8.01   193.27        184.23
17        2.46      0.0         0.00           0.00        3.00      2.96      8.42      64.55   67.63      0 0O    ;.59    43.45    18. 48    9,16   204.86        195.82
18        2.46      0.0         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42      65.04   69.32      0.00      1.59    43.45    18.48    9.00   206.88        197.84
19        2.46      0.0         0,00           0.00         3. 00    2,96      8.42       4.71   38.01      0,00      1.59    43.45    18.48    0.00   106.24         97.20
10        2.46      0.0           O.00        0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42        7.76   43.29     0.00      1.59    43.45    18.48    0.00   i14.57        105.23
21        2.46      0.0          0.00          0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42       11.09   5o.67     0.00      1.59    43.45    18.48    0.00   125.28        116.24
22        2.46      0.0         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42       14t.38   55.57    0.00      1.59    43.45    18.48    0.00   133.48        124.44
23        2.46      0.0         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42       14.48   60.01     0.00      1.59    43.45    18.48    0.00   138.01        128.97
24        2.46      0.0         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42       16.47   63.66     0.00      1.59    43.45    18.48    0.00   143.65        134.61
25        2.46     (1.0         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42       14.20   35.84    42.24      1.59    43.45    18.48    2.45   158.26        149.22
26        2.46      O.0         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42       38.78   38.36   143.28      1.59      3,.45    18.48    7.51   291.45      282.41
27        2.46      0.(         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42      67.41   40.70   288.24       1.59    43.45    18.48   14.20   474.07        465.03
28        2.46      0.0         0.00           0.00        3 00      2.96      8.42      77.76   42.30   332.76       1.59    43.45    18.48   15.57   531.91        522.87
29        2,46      0.0         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42       79.80   43.67   387.90      1.59    43.45    18.48   18.32   593.23        584.19
30        2.46      0.0         0.00           0.00         3.00     2.96      8.42      93.15   44, 2   377.74       1.59    43.45    18.48   18.00   596.95        587.91
Rate of return at market Prices - 23.9%
At current prices.
/2 includes economic cost of farmer's own labor (paea 7.08).
/3 Net of harvesting costs.



INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Incremental Cost and Benefit Streams at Efficiency Prices
(Rs M)
ECONOMIC COSTS                                                                              ECONOMIC BENEFITS_
Buildings   Vehicles S                       Total                                                                            Total        Net
Years         Labor*  Material    Housing    Equipment   Staff   Other    Cost    Fuelwood    Poles    Timber   Bamboo   Fodder   Fruit   Oil                  Benefit    Benefit
3             4.51      0.54        3.17         2.28         3.58    1.73       15.81     0.08        0.00       0.00    0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00      0.08       - 15.73
2             11.50      i.40        3.12         1.41         4.oo    2.14      23.57     0.20        0.00       0.00    0.00       0.02      0.00    0.00       0.22      - 23.25
3             18.00      2.21        1.73         1.14         4.90    2.88      30.86     0.52        0.00       0.00    0.00       0.15      0.00    o.98       1.64      - 29.22
4             23.82      2.58        0.75         0.71         5.86    3.10      36.82     o.82        0.00       0.00    0.00       0.39      0.00    3.00       4.21      - 32.61
5             28.34      2.77        0.15         0.11         6.37    3.09      40.83     1.28        0.00       0.00    0.00       o.67      0.00    5.67       7.63      - 33.20
6             21.05      1.58       o0O0          0.00         6.37    2.59      31.59      1.81       0.00       0.00    0.73       1.01      0.00    6.41       9.96      - 21.63
7             12.00      0.00       0.00          0.00         6.37    2.37      20.74     6.22        5.63       0.00    3.50       1.37      o.o6    7.37     24.15          3.41
8             11.75      0.00        0.00         0.00         3.41     2.37     17.53    19.22       20.30       0.00    3.18       1.43      0.75    7.36    52.24          34.71
9             10.81      0.00        0.00         0.00         3.04    2.37      16.22    36.90       38.50       0.0o   17.04       1.51      2.10    5.67   101.71          85.49
10           11.78      0.00        0.00         0.00         2.69    2.37       16.84   44.36        47-53       0.00   25.87       1.59     4.40    6.41    130.16         113.32
11            11.88     0           00           0.00          2.40    2.37      16.65    53.05       57.06       0.00   34.76       1.59      7.73    7.33    161.52        144.87
12           12.00      0.00        0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      16.77    56.27       61.39       0.00   34.76       1.59    11.44    7.20   172.65          155.88
13           11.12      0.00        0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      15.89    14.86       12.93       0.00   34.76       1.59    14.77    0.98    79.88           63.99
14           11.37      0.00        0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      16.14    29.38       29.19       0.00   34.76       1.59    14.77    3.00   112.69           96.55
15           11.61      0.00        0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      16.38   48.73        49.02       0.00   34.76       1.59    14.77    5.67   154.54          138.16
16           11.86      0.00       -0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      16.63    51.28       46.11       0.00   34.76       1.59    14.78    6.41    154.93         138.30
17           11.92      0.00        0.00         0.00         2.40    2.37       16.69    51.64       54.10       0.00   34.76       1.59    14.78    7.33    164.20         147.51
18           12.04      0.00        0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      16.81    52.03       55.46       0.00   34.76       1.59     14.78    7.20    165.82        149.01
19           11.13      0.00        0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      15.90     3.77       30.41       0.00   34.76       1.59    14.78    0.30    85.31           69.41
20            11.37      0.00        0.00        0.00          2.40    2.37      16.14    6.20        34.63       0.00   34.76       1.59    14.78    0.00    91.97           75.83
21            11.61     0.00         0.00        0.00          2.40    2.37      16.38    8.87        40.54       0.00   34.76       1.59    14.78    0.00   100.54           84.16
22            10.66     0.00        0.00          0.00         2.40    2.37      15.43    11.51       44.46       0.00   34.76       1.59    14.78    0.00   107.10           91.67
23           11.34      0.00        0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      16.11    11.58       48.01       0.00   34.76       1.59    14.78    0.00   110.72           80.76
24            11.72      0.00        0.00        0.00          2.40    2.37      16.49    13.18       50.93       0.00   34.76       1.59    14.78    0.00   115.24           98.75
25           10.75      0.00        0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      15.52    11.36       28.67      33.79   34.76       1.59    14.78      P.96   126.92        111.40
26            10.75      0.00        0,00        0.00          2.40    2.37      15.52    31.02       30.69    114.62   34.76        1.59    14.78    6.01    233.48         217.96
27           10.75      0.00        0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      15.52    53.93       32.56    230.59   34.76        1.59    14.78    11.36   379.58        364.06                      ,
28           10.75      0.00        0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      15.52   62.21        33.84    266.21   34.76        1.59    14.78   12.46   425.85         410.33
29            10.75     0.00        0.00         0.00          2.40    2.37      15.52   63.84        34.94    310.34   34.76        1.59    14.78   14.66   474.90         45j.3o
30            10.75      0.00        0.00         0.00         2.40    2.37      15.52   74.52        35.62    302.21   34.76        1.59    14.78   14.40   477.88         462.36
Rate of return at efficiency prices   27.9%
* Labor cost includes cost of farm labor (i.e., farmers' own contribution in kind).



INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Project OutputL!
('000)
Years                      Fuelwood             Poles            Timber             Bamboo            Fodder             Fruit            Oil
(m ton)            (no.)             (m3)               (no.)            (m ton)          (m ton)            (kg)
I                           0.7                 o                 n                 C)C0                                  0               0
2                           1.7                 0                 0                  0                 1.3                0               0
3                           4.3                 0                 0                  0                10.0                0               0
4                           6.8                 0                 0                  0                26.0                0               0
5                          10.7                 0                 n                  0                44.6                0              70.9
6                          15.1                 0                 0               229.0               67.4                0              80.1
7                          51.8              1408.0               0              1092.5               91.4                0              92.1
8                         160.2             5704.0                0               992.5               95.4                4.7            92.0
9                         307.5              9624.0               0              53214.5             100.8               13.1            70.9
10                         369.7             11882.0               0              8085.0              106.1               27.5            80.1
11                         442.1             14266.0               0             10862.5              106.1               48.3            91.6
12                         468.9             15348.0               0             10862.5              106.1               71.5            90.0
13                         123.8              3232.0               n             10862.5              106.1               92.3            12.2
14                         244.8              7298.0               0             10862.5              106.1               92.3            37.5
15                         406.1             12254.0               0             10862.5              106.1               92.3            70.9
16                         427.3             11528.0               0             10862.5              106.1               92.4            80.1
17                         430.3             13526.0               0             10862.5              106.1               92.4            91.6
18                         433.6             13864.0               0             10862.5              106.t               92.4            90.0
19                          3].4              7602.0               0             10862.5              106.1               92.4             0
20                           51.7             8658.0                0             10862.5             106.1               92.4             (
21                           73.9            10134.0               0             10862.5              106.1               92.4             0
22                           95.9            11114.0               0             10862,5              106.1               92.4             0
23                           96.5            12002.0                0             10862.5             106.1               92. 4            0
24                          109.8            12732.0                0             10862.5             106.1               92.4             0
25                           94.7             7168.0             105.6            10862.5             106.1               92.4            24.5
26                         258.5              7672.0             358.2            10862.5             106.1               92.4            75.1
27                         449.4              8140.0             720.6            10862.5             106.1               92.4           142.0
28                         518.4              8460.0             831.9            10862.5             106.1               92.4           155.7
29                         532.0              8734.0             969.8            10862.5             106.1               92.4           183.2
30                         621.0              8904.0             944.4            10862.5             106.1               92.4;          180.0
Totals                    6838.6           230624.0             3930.5          232973.5             2665.0             1823.7          1860.2
i Reflects different survival rates under varying ecological conditions.



ANNEX 4
Table 4
-55-
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
Financial           Economic          Conversion
Unit            Prices              Prices             Factor
Fuelwood         Rs/m ton         150.00               120.00              0.8
Poles            Rs/piece           5.00                 4.00              0.8
Timber           Rs/m3            400.00               320.00              0.8
Bamboo           Rs/piece           4.00                 3.20              0.8
Fodder           Rs/m ton          15.00                15.00              1.0
Fruit            Rs/m ton         200.00               160.00              0.8
Oil              Rs/kg            100.00                80.00              0.8



ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA
TEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US8 M)
IDA Fiscal Year                                 Disbursements       
and Semester                         Semester                  Cumulative
FY 82
lst                                     1. 5-                      1.5
2nd                                     1.5                        3.0
FY 83
1st                                     1e5                        4.5
2nd                                     1.5                        6.0
FY 84
1st                                     2.0                        8.0
2nd                                     2s0                       10.0
FY 85
1st                                     2,0                       12.0
2nd                                     2.0                       14.0
FY 86
1st                                     3,0                       17.0
2nd                                     3.0                       20.0
FY 87
1st                                     3.5                       23.5
2nd                                     3.5                       27.0
FY 88
1st                                     2.0                       29.0
Estimated effecti-ve date Novermber 15, 1931.  (Includes disbursement of
retroactive financing to January 1, 1581.)
Estimated closing date Decem'Der 31, 1987.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
-57-
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Project Year
Pre-Board Presentation    Pre-Effectiveness    1    2    3    4    5    6
ORGANIZATION
New Divisions         /------------------------------------------/
Public Relations                                  ----------------/
Monitoring &
Evaluation                                                            ------------------------/
Research Program                                                       /------------------------/
Nurseries                                        /---------------------------------/
Seed Collection        -----------------------------------------------------------------------/
STAFF
Additional CCF        /------------------------------------------------_---_-______________/
New CF                /-----------------------------------------------------------------------/
Other Staff                                                            /------------------------
CIVIL WORKS
FG School             /-------------------------------------------------/
FRS School                                                             /-    /
Houses                                                                  -----------   --- -- -- --
VEHICLES &
EQUIPMENT
Cars/Jeeps                                                              -      -- -
Cycles                                                                  -     -      -      -
Office Equipment                                                        -- -                -
Research Equipment                                                      -- --
Nursery, etc.
Equipment                                                            //
RESEARCH &
SEED
Godowns                                                                //
MONITORING &
EVALUATION
6ocio-Economist                                                        /-I
Operation 
Vehicles                                                               /_
Model I, II, III, IX
Model  IV, VIII,  XI,    ------------------------- --   -  -  -  --   -  --------/----     ---  --
Model      XV, X
Model V, VI, VII                                                       /----------------------/
//



-55-
ANNEX 6
INDIA                                             Table 1
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Summary Project Costs
(Rs M)
Component                                                                                       F.E
Years:   1        2        3        4       5        6       Total      Costs1/
Project Organization
Staff Costs                    4.37    5.66    7.29    7.93    7.93    7.93    41.21               -
Operating Costs                1.00    1.51    2.36    2.82    2.96    2.96    13.64           5.44
Vehicle and Equipment          2.53    1.52    1.22    0.79    0.12           -      6.18       1.54
Building and Housing           4.18    4.11    2.31    1.00    0.20           -    11.81           -
Sub-total                     12.08   12.80   13.18   12.54   11.21   10.89    72.84           6.98
Training and Fellowships        0.99    0.99    0.97    0.58    0.58    0.40         S.85        1.34
Research Unit                   0.10    0.10    0.05    0.04    0.04    0.04          0.47       0.10
Plantings
Strip Plantings                3.14    8.93   14.85   19.55   23.75   21.25    91.47           2.74
Village Woodlots               0.59    2.03    3.73    5.02    4.98    0.76    17.11            0.51
Degraded Forests               1.37    2.64    3.64    4.38    4.12    2.69    18.84            0.56
Farm Forestry                  3.87    7.27    9.90   11.46   13.27    5.27    51.04           1.53
Sub-total                      8.97   20.87   32.12   40.41   46.12   29.97    178.46          5.34
Stove Unit                      0.09    0.14    0.20        -        -        _       0.43          -
Monitoring and Evaluation       0.14    0.14    0.10    0.20    0.20    0.20          1.00       0.10
Total Base Cost                22.37   35.04   46.62   53.77   58.15   2.           259.U5      13.86
Physical Contingencies          0.88    1.47    1.86    2.14    2.14    2.34         10.38          -
Price Contingencies             1.01    4.76   10.58   17.23   24.34   21.30         79.22       4.27
GRAND TOTAL                    24.26   41.27   59.06   73.14   84.63   65.14    348.65          18.13
1/ Foreign Exchange: Operating costs 40%, Vehicles 25%, Equipment 30%, Plantings 3%.
* Reference is given to detailed cost tables for each component.



-59-
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
ANN1EXt 7
Staff and Other Operating Costs                                                 Table 1
(RF, VI
Year 1           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5           Year 6
Unit Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost                         Total Cost
As  000
A. Staff Costs
A.1. Office of the Additional Chief
Conservator of Forests
Addi. Chief Conservator                            37.00         1      .037       1      .037       1      .037       1      .037      1      .037       1      .037          0.222
P.R.O.                                             20.00         1      .020       1      .020       1      .020       1      .020      1      .020       1      .020          0.120
Head Clerk                                         11.00         I      .011       1      .011       1      .011       I      .011      1.      011       I      .011          0.066
Stenographer                                        9.55         1      .010       1      .010       I      .010      I       .010      1      .010       1      .010          0.060
Upper Division Clerk                                9.55         2      .019       2      .019       2      .019      2       .019      2      .019       2      .019          0.114
Communication Expert                               72.00         1      .072       1      .072       1      .072       1     .072       1      .072       1      .072          0. 144
Lover Div. Clerk                                    7.33         4      .029      4       .029      4       .029      4       .029      4      .029       4      .029          0.0747
Driver                                              6.70         1      .007       1      .007       1      .007       1      .007      1       .007      1      .007          0.042
Typist                                              7.33         2      .015       2      .015       2      .015      2       .015      2      .015       2      .015          0.090
Other Group D Staff                                 4.40         4       018       4      .018      4       .018      4        018      4      .018       4      .018          0. lo8
Sub-total                                                     18      .238     18       .238     17      .166      17      .166      17      .166    1        .166          1.140
2. Circle Office
Conservator of Forests                             32.80         1      .033       I      .033       2      .066      2       .066      2      .o66       2      .066          0.330
Head Clerk                                          9.80         1      .010       1      .010       2      .020      2       .020      2      .020       2      .020          0. 100
Accountant                                          9.70         1      .010       I      .010       2      .019      2       .019      2       .019      2      .019          0.096
Stenographer                                        9.55         1      .010       I      .010       2      .019      2       .019      2      .019       2      .019          0.096
Upper Din. Clerk                                    9.55         4      .038       4      .038      8       .076      8       .076      9       .076      8      .076          0.380
Lower Div. Clerk                                    7.33         8      .059       8      .059      16      .117     16       .117     16      .117      16      .117          0.586
Typist                                              7.33         2      .015       2      .015      4       .029      4       .029      4       .029      4      .029          0. !46
Driver                                              6.70         1      .007       1      .007       2      .013      2       .013      2       .013      2      .013          O.P65
Group D Staff                                       4.4D         6      .026       6      .026      12     .05       12      .053      12       .053     12      .03           0.264
Sob-total                                                    20       .208     25       .20      50      .412      50      .412      50   . 41   3    SO       .413          2 0 64
3  Monitor;nq tell
Deputy Conservator of Forests                      23.50         1      .023       1      .023       1      .023       1      .023       1      .023      1      .023          0.138
Statistician                                       15.50         1      .015       1      .015       1      .015       1      .015      1       .015      1      .015          0.090
Coeputer                                            9.40         1      .009       1      .009       I      .009       I      .g        1          g009   1      .009          0.054
Forest Ranger                                       9 40         2      .019       2      .019      2       .019      2       .019      2      .019       2      .019          0.114
Deputy Ranger/Forester                              7.33         4      .029       4      .029      4       .029      4       .029      4.      .029      4      .029          0.174
Head Clerk/Accountant                               9.70         1      .010       1      .010       1      .010       1      .010      I      .010       1      .010          C.060
Stenoqrapher                                        9.55         1      .009       1      .009       1      .009       1      .009      1       .009      1      .009          0.354
Audio Visual                                        6.70         1      .0o6       2      .020       3      .020      3       .020      3       .020      3      .020          0.099
Upper Division Clerk                                9.55         1      .009       I      .009       I      .009       1      .009       1      .009      1      .020          0.054
Clerk Typist                                        7.33         3      .022       3      .022       3      .022      3       .022      3       .022      3      .0S9          0.132
Draftsman                                           9.40         1      .009       1      .009       1      .009       1      .009       I      .009      I      .O?           0.054
Driver                                              6.70         1      .007       1      .007       1      .007       1      .007       1      .007      1      .00?          0.042
Group D Staff                                       4.40. 8                        8035  8           8      .035      8       .035      8       .035      8      .035          0.210
Sub-total                                                     26      .202     27       .209     28       .216     28    -.2 T       2       .216      2        2            1.275
4. Deputy Conservator of Forests
Deputy Conservator of Forests                      23.50         4      .094       6      .141       8      .188      9       .211      9       .211      9      .211           1,056
A.O.F.O.                                           19.88         4      .079       6      .119       8      .159      9       .179      9       .179      9      .179            .894
Head Clerk                                          9.70         4      .039       6      .058       8      .078      9       .087      9       .087      9      .087            .436
Accountant                                          9.55         4      .038       6      .057       8      .076      9       .086      9       .086      9      .086            .429
Upper Division Clerk                                9.55         8      .076      12      .114      16      .153     18       .172     18       .172     18      .172            .859
Forest Guard School Staff                                        -          -      -          -      -      .145      -       .145      -       .145      -      .145            .580
Stenographer                                        9.55         4      .038       6      .057      8       .076      9       .086      9       .o86      9      .086            .429
Clerk Typist                                        7.33        24      .076      36      .264     48       .352     54       .396     54       .396     54      .396           1.902
Draftsman                                           9.40         4      .038       6      .056       8      .075      9       .o85      9       .085      9      .085            .424
P.R.O.                                             10.40         4      .042       6      .062      8       .083      9       .094      9       .094      9      .094            .469
Driver                                              6,70         4      .027       6      .040       8      .054      9       .060      9       .060      9      .060            .301
Promoters                                           4.80         6      .028       6      .028      6       .028      6       .028  _  6        .028      6      .028            .168
70      .675    102       .996    134      4.467    I50     1.628    150      1.628    150      1.628          7947
Field Operations
Forest Ranger                                       9.40        20     0.188      30    0.282      40    0.376       45     0.423      45     0.423      45    0.423           2.115
Deputy Ranger/FR                                    7.33        80     0.586    120    o.880    160        1.173    180      1.319    180      1.319    180     1.319          6.596
Forest Ette-sios Worker                             4.91       160     0.786    240      1.178    320      1.571    360      1.768    360     1.768    360      1.768          8.839
Motivators                                           .           -     1.200       -     1.200       -     1.200      -      1.200      -      1.200      -     1.200          7.200
Other D Group Staff                                 4.40        80     o.352    120    0.528    160    0.704    180         0.792    180      0.792   180    0.792             3.960
Driver Mobile Publicity Vans                        6.70         1    0.006        1    0.006        1    0.006        2    0 006       3    0.020        3    0.020           L.071
Sub-total                                                   341      3.118    511     4.074    681      5.030    767      5.515    768      5.522    768      5.522         28.781
G8RAD TOTAL A                                                       4.441             5.725             7.291             7.937             7.904             7.904        41.207



ANNEX 7
-60-                                               Table 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
B. Operating Costs                          Staff and Other Oper ting Costs (Cont.)
B1. Vehicle Running Expenses
Unit    Year 1_        Year 2         Year 3          Year 4        Year 5         Year 6
Cost   No.   Cost   No.    Cost   No.    Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost    Total
(Rs 000)
Car             20.00   1    0.02    1        0.02    2       0.04    3    0.06    3    0.06    3    0.06          0.26
4 W.D. Jeep    15.00   4    0.06    6         0.09    8       0.12   10    0.95   10    0.15   10    0.15          0.72
Mobile
Publicity
Van             30.00   -         -    -          -    1      0.03    2    0.06    3    0.09    3    0.09          0.27
Motor
Cycle            4.00  10    0.04   20        0.08   30       0.12   40    0.16   40    0.16   40    0.16          0.72
Sub-total BI                 0.120           0.190           0.310         0.430         0.460          0.460    1.970
B2. Office Expenses
Addl. Chief
Conservator of
Forests         25.00   -         -    -         -    -          -    1    0.025   1    0.025   1    0.050    0.100
Conservator of
Forests         25.00   1    0.025   1        0.025   2       0.05)   2    0.050   1    0.050   1    0.050    0.250
Evaluation
Cell            25.00   -          -   -           -   -               1    0.025   1    0.025   1    0.025    0.075
D.C.F. Oper-
ations          50.00   4    0,200   6        0.300   8       0.400   9    0.450   9    0.450   9    0.450    2.250
Sub-total 12.                  0.225          0.325           0.450         0.550          0.550         0.550    2.675
B3. Travelling Expenses
Addl.Chief
Conservator
of Forests      12.00   -          -   -           -   -               1    0.012   1    0.012   1    0.012    0.036
Conservator of
Forests         12.00   1    0.012   1        0.012   2       0.02L   2    0.024   2    0.024   2    0.024    0.120
D.C.F./P.M.E.  12.00   -           -   -           -   -          -   1    0.012   1    0.012   1    0.012    0.036
D.C.F.
Operations    100.00   4    0.400   6         0.600   8       0.800   9    0.900   9    0.900   9    0.900    4.500
Sub-total B3.                  0.412          0.612           0.824         0.948          0.948         0.948    4.692
B4. Building Maintenance
Forest Ranger  2.400   -           -   -           -   -          -   5    0.012  10    0.024  10    0.024    0.060
Forester        1.800   -          -   -           -  10      0.018  30    0.054  50    0.090  50    0.090    0.2S2
Forest Ext.
Worker          1.200   -          -   -           -  30      0.036  70    0.084 110    0.132 110    0.132    0.384
Seed Godown              -         -   -           -   3      0.018   6    0.036   9    0.054   9    0.054    0.162
Sub-total                          -               -          0.072         0.186          0.300         0.300    0.858
B5. Uniform Cost
0.:180         0.270           0.360         0.480          0.410         0.410    2.050
Total B                        0.937           1.397          2.016          2.594         2.668          2.6A'8   12.280



Annex 7
-61-                                              Table 3
lNDlA
WEST SERiAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
RSilding and Sensing
(R. M)
C.  Buildina  & hoastn
C.lI. Rnsidential Buildincs
Unit    Year 1         Year 2         Ye 2 2          Year 4        Year 0         Year 6
Cant   No.   Gont   Na.   Ctst   N..    Cost   Na.   Cont   No.   Cost   Nn.   Cast               atal
(RE 000)
Freent Ranger   40.00 -          -     5      0.20    S       0.20    5    0.20    5    0.20                       0.80
Forester         30.00  10   0.30   20        0.60   20       0.60    -         -    -        -                    1.50
Field Estan.
Wor-ker          20.00  30   0,60   40        0.80   40       0.80   40    0.80    -          -                    3.00
Stnaf q-artnrs 370.0    1   0. 37    1        0.38    1       0.37                                                 1.12
Hontel  (F.S.)fl               0.41           0.41                                                                 0.82
Staff quartern
(FY.)          500.0    1   0.50    1        0.50                                                                 1.00
Rostel (F.G.04450.0       1   0.45    1       0.45                                                                 0.90
Sub-eot-l                 2.63           3.34             1.97           00           0.20                    9.14
C.2. San Residentisl Buildings
Seed Godeen    100.00   3   0.30    3         0.30    3       0.30    -         -    -        -                    0.90
Estaneten of
s.se.rnh Lb   100.00   -          -    -      0.05    -       0.05    -         -    -        -                    0.10
Expennion of
training
centers         150.00   2   0.30            -      -       -       -      -         -        -                    0.30
Fornst Ouaden8
Schal             4.20        0.42            0.42                                                                0.84
Other C-ngtrur-
liar                           0.53
Subtraaal C.2            1.55            b.77           0.35              -              -                    _2.67
TYtar  C.                4.10            4.11            2.32          0.00          0.20                    1l.81
D.  Vehlen  and Rquinenr
D.1. Vehiales
Car              50.00   -        -    -         -     1      0.050   1    0.050   -          -    -         -     0.100
4 W.D. JeFp      75.00   4   0.300   2        0.150   2       0.150   2    0.150   -          -    -        -      0.750
Meter Cyicl       10.00  10   0.100  10       0.100  10       0.100  10    0.100   -          -    -         -     0.400
Diesel Stn.Wag. 110.00   1   0.010
llbile
Fnblicity Van  120.00   -               -          -   1      0.120   1    0.120   1    0.120   -           .-      .360
Ian             200.0          0.200                                                                               0.310
Snb-total 0.1             .710            .250            .420          .420          .120                    1.920
0.2. OsaSreern
(a) Office E.ninnent
Fypenit-er        5.5   12   0.065   6        0.033   7       0.050   -    0.044   -           -   -        -       .193
Furniture                  -   0.130   -       0.065   -       0.078   -    0.054   -           -   -         -       .327
Phcneaepying
carhina                   -                                                 0.015                                    .015
PrOnting  -hine                                                              0.013                                   .013
Oleerrin ny-
eta styling
-.ahine           10.0    4   0.040   2        0.020   3      0.030   1    0.010                                     .100
Cainciutiag
P-nhine           10.0                                                      0.010                                  0.010
PFaket caian.    4.0    4   0.016   2         0.008   2       0.008   2    0.008                                   0.040
Math. Instrupe.                                                             0.003                                  0.003
Oracie8 Inten.  2.0    4   2.008   1         0.004   1       0.004   2    0.002                                   0.018
Sb-totel 0-2(s)         0.260          0.130           E.OyO         0.0159                                 0.719
Dnit     Year 1        Year 2        Year 3         Ya           Teen 0       YearYos 6
D-2                  CanE    N..  Cant   Na.   ten~t   a. . Cent   RN-   Cnt   ON-   Cant   1a.  Cent    Tonal
(b) YieId EsniceenE
PFrtable pnnpset             10.0      20 0.200   10   0.100   15   0.150 2          0 .050
SpFilklcr ir-igator         25.0       8  0.200    4   0.010    6    .130    2  0.030                                     .500
6Fr-o-, teals 5
Iwlelenes                   1.0      40  0.004   20   0.002   3R   0.003   10  0.050                                   0.010
Serrey 6 Cartogr-phy          00.0      4  0.200    2   0.100    3   0.5           1                  -      -1-           .500
Other innitonee-              50.0       4  0.200    2   0.100o    3   0.150    1  0.000                                  3.4500
Cea.ette plnyer and tapes   1.44   500  0.720  500   0.720    -              -4
Sob-rteE   D.2.(b)          1.524          1.122         0.603        '.201                               3.430
Tytar   0                   2.494          2.502         1.193         0.760                     2.120   6.089
J  Forn-rry Snh-l /  Frrert G-ard Sha-l



-62-
ANNEX 7
]NDIA                                                  Table 4
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Training and Fellowship Costs
E. Training and Fellowship                                       (Rs M)
Unit      Year 1       Year 2          Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6
Cost     No.  Cost   No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost   No.  Cost   No.  Cost   Total
E 1. Training
Motivators                  0.50      200  0.100  200  0.100   200  0.100   200  0.100  200  0.100   -            -   0.500
Extension Foresters         1.20       75  0.086   75  0.086    75  0.086    75  0.086   75  0.086   -            -   0.430
Forest Guards               0.60        -       -    -       -   120  0.072   120  o.072  120  0.072  120 0.072   0.288
S-T. Orientation                        - 0.324    -  0.324           0.324      -  0.324    -  0.324   -  0.324   1.944
Sub-total E. 1                            0.510        0.510         0.582         0.582        0.582       0.396   3.162
E 2. Fellowships
International Training       .096       5  0.480    5  0.480       4  0.384              -                        -   1.344
Total                                      0.990        0.966         0.582        0.582         0.582       0.396   4.506
F. Research and Stove Unit
Fl. Research
Building                     .014       -  0.050        0.050      -       -     -      -     -       -    -      -   0.100
Research Asst.                          2  0.028    2  0.028       2  0.028      2 0.028      2  0.028    2 0.028   0.168
Operating Expenses                         0.017        0.017         0.017        0.017         0.017       0.015   0.100
Sub-total F. 1                             0.095        0.095         0.045        0.045         0.045       0.043   0.368
F2.  Stove Unit
Stove technologist           .036       1   .036    1  0.036       -      -            -              -           -   0.072
Operating expenses           .050       1   .050    2  0.100       4  0.200             -             -               0.350
Sub-total                                  0.086        0.136         0.200             -             -           -   0.422
Total F.                                   0.181        0.231         0.245        0.045         0.045       0.043   0.790
G. Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
Socio-Economist              .036       1  0.036    1  0.036               -            -             -           -    .072
Operating expenses                          .100         .100              -         .200          .200        .200    .900
Sub-total GE                               0.136        0.136         0.100        0.200         0.200       0.200   0.972
Total C.                                   0.136        0.136         0.100        0.200          0.200       0.200   0.972



-63-AN
INDIA                                              Table 5
WVEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Planting Costs
H. Planting Costs            Size                            (Rs M)
Ha       Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4        Year 5      Year:6      Total
H.1  Strip Plantation
(a) Model I.                       300
Labor                                   0.057       0.137       0.173       0.209        0.278       0.232      1.086
Material                                0.006       0.017       0.020       0.022        0.030        0.026     0.121
Sub-total                               0.063       0.154       0.193       0.231        0.308       0.258      1.207
(b) Model II                       700
Labor                                   0.136       0.326       0.469       0.643        0.760       0.736      3.070
Material                                0.012       0.033       0.043       0,060        0.063        0.068     0.279
Sub-total                               0.148       0.359       0.512       0.703        0.823       0.804      3.349
(c) Model III                     5500
Labor                                   1.484       3.713       4.568       5.438        6.774       5.824    27.802
Material                                0.131       0.390       0.473       0.488        0.591        0.516     2.589
Sub-total                               1.615       4.103       5.042       5.926        7.365       6.340    30.391
(d) Model IV                     13500
Labor                                   1.208       3.759       7.652      10.998       13.471      11.677    48.765
Material                                0.108       0.374       0.834       1.201        1.397        1.368     5.282
Sub-total                 20000         1.316       4.133       8.486      12.199       14.868      13.045    54.047
1.2  Village Woodlots
(a) Model V                        300
Labor                                   0.044       0.100       0.161       0.207        0.173       0.047      0.732
Material                                0.007       0.004       0.005       0.005             -           -     0.016
Sub-total                               0.046       0.104       0.166       0.212        0.173       0.047      0.748
(b) Model VI                      2700
Labor                                   0.215       0.768       1.425       2.015        2.124       0.333      6.881
Material                                0.022       0.094       0.220       0.221        0.170            -     0.727
Sub-total                               0.237       0.862       1.646       2.236        2.294       0.333      7.608
(c' Model VII                    3000
Labor                                   0.275       0.963       1.678       2.327        2.321       0.378      7.942
Material                                0.029       0.098       0.245       0.245        0.191            -     0.808
Sub-total                  XWOc         0.304       1.061       1.923       2.572        2.51?       0.378      8.750
H.3  Farm Forestry
(a) Model VIII                   1200
Labor                                   0.096       0.174       0.198       0.201        0.199       0.089      0.958
Material                                0.009       0.012       0.012       0.012        0.012            -     1.057
Sub-total                               0.105       0.186       0.210       0.213        0.211       0.089      1.015
(b) Model IX                    22300
Labor                                   1.191       2.759       4.066       4.499        5.028        2.219    19.762
Material                                    98         191         250         250          300           -      1.089
Sub-total                               1.289       2.950       4.316       4.749        5.328       2.219    20.851
(c) Model X                     28500
Labor                                   1.598       3.870       5.101       6.183         7.328       2.964    27.044
Material                                  118         249          275         350          400           -     1.392
Sub-total                52000          1.716       4.119       5.376       6.533        7.728        2.964    28.436
H4. Degraded Forests
(a) Model XI                   5000
Labor                                   1.018       1.844       2.378       2.669         1.918       1.143    10.970
Material                                  142         287          381         381          311           -      1.502
Sub-total                               1.160       2.131       2.759       3.050        2.229       1.143    12.472
(b) Model XII                  10000
Labor                                   0,270       o.636       1.055       1.537        2.097       1.685       7.280
Material                                     -           -           -           -            -           -          -
Sub-total                 15000         0.270       X.636       1.055       1.537        2.097       1.685      7.280
Total H.               93000         8.97       20.08       32.12       40.41        46.12       29.97    178.46



ANNEX 8
-64.-                       Table 1
IN_IA
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Pattern of Land Holding
Size Class            Number       Percentage of         Area           Percentage of
(ha)               ('000)        Holdings In       ('000 ha)          Area In Size
Size Class                              Class
Less than 0.5         1,558             36.95            381                 7.53
0.5 - 1.0                971            23.03            709                14.01
1.2 - 2.0                942            22.24          1,302                25.72
2.0 - 3.0               412              9.77            969                19.14
3.0 - 4.0               145              3.4.4           496                 9.80
4.0 - 5.0                 98             2.32            425                 8.40
5.0 - 10.0                87             2.06            548                10.83
10.0 - 20.0                3             0.07             36                 0.71
20.0 - 50.0              0.1              -                3                 0.06
50.0 and over             0.3            0.04            193                 3.81
Total:               4,216.4           100.00          5,062               100.00



ANNEX 9
Page 1
-65-
INL.A
WEST BENGAL SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
A. Reference Material Available in South Asia Information Center
1. Preparation Report, Social Forestry Project, West Bengal. Forest Directorate.
Government of West Bengal, Calcutta, October 1980.
2. Supplementary Report: Reply to Points Raised by the Senior Agricultural
Specialist, World Bank Resident Mission, New Delhi. January 1981.
3. D. Bandyopadhyay, Land Reforms in West Bengal. Government of West Bengal,
New Delhi.
4.  CADP Today, West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation, New
Delhi.
5. Government of West Bengal, Land Reforms in West Bengal, Statistical Report-IV.
Statistical Cell, Board of Revenue, Government of West Bengal, 1980.
6. Government of West Bengal, The Working of Panchayat System in West Bengal,
A Review of M4ain Events and Activities. Government of West Bengal, Department
of Panchayats and Community Development, March 1980.
B. Reference Material Available in Project File
Item 1       Panchayat Organization.
Item 2       Proforma Agreement for Village Woodlots:  Loan Scheme.
Item 3       Proforma Agreement for Village Woodlots:  Supervisory Scheme.
Item 4       Proforma Agreement for Village Panchayats:  Strip Plantations,
Item 5       Proforma Agreement for Individuals,
Item 6       Land Tenure in West Bengal.
Item 7       Fodder Species
Item 8       Recommendations for Project Research Program
Item 9       Outline for .a Proposed Training Course for Forest Extension Workers,
Item 10      Proposed Plantation Species
Item 11      Note on Bamboo Planting



-66-
I 'JDIA
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL
SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
AT STATE LEVEL
nervator of Forests
Additional Che Conservato
Moeinonint  an   valtublc Reratios Office                            Communiations ocand
Un~t  Audio Visual Unit       Extension Officer
AT ZONAL LEVEL                                                      NORTH ZONE                                  T   ZONE
Conservator of Forests                 Conservator of Forests
Social Forestry North Zone              Social Forestry South Zone
|Research UnV                             0                                                                     esac  Ui 
4  Field Units                         5  Field Units
15 Districts)                          (11 Districtsf
4  Deputy Conser-aros of                S  Deputy Conser-anos OfD,t  tLvlPh
4  Assistant Divisional                5  Assistant Divisional                                                        Committee
AT DIVISIONAL LEVEL                                               Forest Officers                         Forest Officers
16 DISTRICTS                                             4  Public Relations Officers            5  public Relations Officers
str  Lavel                                                                      lDst, dt Level
I  Nurseres                                                                                                     N -eI,,;res
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCKS
1335)
61ock Level                                    Forest Extension W kBorkLers  |                            1
Nurseries                                    |           3BO0       lJ                                         Nurseries    l
VILLAGE PANCHAYATS
(3242)
Village Fanchayst
I     Nurseries                                  |           100ll                                                Nusre         l
1/ 25 additional Forest Extension Workers for Community Development Blocks with larger forest areas.
L  One Motivator to cover 1-4 Village PanchaYatr.
VAoid 8oolk - 22581



IBRD 15614R
SEPTEMBER 1981
This map has been prep-red by the                                       AJ     ILNG                   BHUTAN
World Bank' staff extlsivelyy                                                                         BHUTA
thecnenl - nc-e- f the e-der, f  N           P      A       L
th 'rpor  ee erhih it is attahed.
The denomieetioh  -se    d the
bh-darfit-w M on t hit map
Ph set imply, ee the part ef the               ~IU~AJLA/IR
Wdntd bank d i ffilt-tes ty ahLyQ
judgmsentoee the 'thai ttatuho h./,f O/j//,zZ T
any teriter  hr any end-r-eme,
hr arsepteece of usch bounderiesa._Si     _  X///       &///Z///..
S/H   A   R 
260                                                                                                                          26
I N  D  I A                                 @                                          \           * 
WEST BENGAL
SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
RESEARCH AND TRAINING CENTERS                                            /
PROJECT:                           Tn Katihar
A         SEED GODOWNS
NURSERIES                                                       E
RESEARCH CENTERS                              
A         FOREST GUARD TRAINING CENTER
,&,       FORESTER TRAINING CENTERS
EASTERN FOREST RANGERS COLLEGE
0      DIVISIONAL HEADQUARTERS
- DIVISIONAL BOUNDARIES AND NAMES           .,     /      d
0      CIRCI-E HEADQUARTERS                       )    ;      4 B    A    N    G         L    A    D    E    S    H
CIRCLE BOUNDARIES, AREAS AND NAMES   t   il
O      SELECTED TOWN 0  0   80 K
RAILROADS                                  /'        /7         ,
-        -     _DISTRICT BOUNDARIES               . ;  ;                                                         Ii
86 -                                                                   Bay        ofSTATE BOUNDARIES           24 /
-24           -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES              (/                                                                      4
RIVERS                   >      =|
to>s  fg                ~~~~~~~~U  R  D W  A           iE/, /,/
~~~~~~~~~~~R A
BIHR     C                          t CL E
-22                                        R A '\      F    r             
0 R\    S              S=         e                          +       
L  O    4R /      7tj; 
o~ 2c2043064o                        '-                 b                                :,AIL.:S



IBRD 15615R
r  880       -  S//K/M                                                SEPTEMBER 1981
-D A RJ. Ef L I-NG   --iBHUTAN
Th,s strp has been prepa-rd by the           NR                                                                  LE  i    ..A  L
World Bank's staff -o-t,sscevy for
the coceenitence of the readers of 5_-
the rpor to wh,h rt s attached
The d-nr,-ati-n usd and the                                                                                                                            A   ...
betssdar.es shown an th,s mapr,      _| /      t,                                                                               -iPAlGURI .                      _
do not -sply -n the pan of the                                                                                                              .URI ..
Worod 6ak and its affhliate, any.
jodg-ent so the legal otaton of
asptemrr,orpor aspendonseenr   ,ea    >:w.5.t -:.: ::::.-: :
or-aceptane of such bhdarie'n
8 /    H   A   R                                                                               C 9   OOCH-BEHAR
-26                                                                                        y                                                                        f-  .   .   2 .  2
I N D I A                                              0 
WEST BENGAL
SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT   To Katihar                                                             E
DENSITY OF POPULATION
PERSONS PER SQUARE MILE:
F' 71    201 -300
301 -400
401 - 500
501 - 600
913
1,640
30,276 (Calcutta)
o         SELECTED TOWNS
I   I-   I    RAILROADS                                       /       '
- _____ -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                      R.
STATE BOUNDARIES
-24'                -           -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                 24
-               =  RIVERS                                                UR DABAD
, B~~~ I RBHUM  : :l   
ToF?afslh                          -                                    'BURDWAN                                        K..
*.     .  P         .: U.RULE R.... U       X             . ......  .......... 
,.,,,............. . . . .         .. . . .   .-.,,.   -X 11
.A N:K U:R: A                                                                                                        [I=
1     R86S                                                                                 B                f          Benga                                      9j0



IBRD 15616R1
"  88    (     SIKK/M    A.-                              SEPTEMBER 1981
0.DAJ.EtLtXBHUTAN
Tha -pnph,, he.nprop-redby the      N        E       P       A        L       *     .     -                             BHUTAN
World Bank  sstaff -exlosoitly for
the onveniene of th reders of f
the repor to which it i a ttached.
The denonin-tiono voed and the
bo_ndaries shown on this nap
do not imply, o the po,t of thn  sA  JA   -P`AGtl -RI
World anhk end tOo effXil,te. any
judgnent en the legol stat-s of
ny teritory oany endorsement
er eoneptanoe of nch boondories.,                        *~IJ                 _              ^HXV-  
I         H      R A   RIf; 073 
-260
I ND IA
WEST BENGAL
SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT  To Ka tiha(
SOILS                                                 DNAJ.PUR 
SOILS:
iH ILL Z ONE
TERAI ZONE
F      :       i i i i OOLD ALLUVIUM ZONE
NEW ALLUVIUM ZONE
LATERITE ZONE
COASTAL SALINE ZONE                                           B   A    N    G      L    A    D    E    S    H
0       SELECTED TOWNS                                --
RAILROADS
-    --    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                         0-
STATE BOUNDARIES                                                      R.-
Z 7-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-240                            RIVERS                                    124-
-22'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~-
0     20   40       60   80  KILOMETERS
860                                                                                                                                             0



IBRD 15617R
88     (            .                                  SEPTEMBER 1981
~~~p                                                   O~~~~~~DARIB HUTAN
Thitsoaip has bees prepared by the                                         \ a   <           N6                 
Wpsrld Sansho oteff e-ch--lay for  N       E       P       A       L
the oncen,snce of the readers- f
the report to which it's attached 0 ,'"'-  ---n 
The d--enmiat-ons use-d and the
bsondaries sh-c n- thin map                                 ~
do not -ply. on the pact of the
Wsrld ank aed its nyhiratan any                                                                >  3APAIU
,dg-mt on the legal status of
any tereicryarany esy rmen t--
oracceptance fsych bondane-n
-260   /     H       A      R                                                              H
I N  D  I A                         7;004   to '1  ;.
WEST BENGAL
SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT  ThKatihar                                        w t S                    
NORMAL ANNUAL RAINFALL                                          k                              2.702
1300      -  ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS        o0        /         D
0       SELECTED TOWNS               2          I       '
I   I       RAILROADS                   2000
-  ______ -   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES         1800
STATE BOUNDARIES                   1800
-. -          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  71O, >9            (             B  A  N  G   L  A  D  E  S  H
~ RIV E RS TR VE
B  I                H         A          R
-24'                                                                        MURS  IDABAD  .                                                 24-
i_                                                                                                                   i
~~~~~~~~~~~~~poe                                  n.i/    HOA  RAH   'Clut 9  >-ho
f;d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ As DA-A    XS
0UO 2    30 L05I         IEA~</~1-n 82r     ~
AN ~        ~        8~o(89ma
86~~~~~                                                                                                                90~~OO HL



