OFICIAL    CREDIT NUMER 1178 IW
I;OCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(West Bengal Social Forestry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF WEST BENGAL
Dated                             , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1178 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  /                          , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCI    ON  (hereinafter  called  the
Association) and STATE OF WEST BENGAL, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called West Bengal).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-five million eight hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 25,800,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that West Bengal agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements
for development assistance to the States of India, the proceeds
of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to West Bengal; and
WHEREAS West Bengal, in consideration of the foregoing,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
L-finitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. West Bengal shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the


﻿-2-
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) West Bengal undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by West Bengal to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, West
Bengal shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) West Bengal shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) West Bengal: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 3 -
(c) West Bengal shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion: (i) by March 31, 1984, a mid-term evaluation report concern-
ing the progress of the Project, particularly with regard to
village woodlots, strip plantations and the impact of farm
forestry; and (ii) promptly after completion of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between West
Bengal and the Association, a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
West Bengal and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit.
(d) West Bengal shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property, equipment, records and documents of
West Bengal relevant to the performance of the obligations of West
Bengal under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) West Bengal shall at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) West Bengal shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by West Bengal of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.06. West Bengal shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon
the Association's request after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.07. West Bengal shall appoint not later than
June 30, 1982, duly qualified and competent persons to the
following positions within SFW: (i) the Chief Publicity Officer in
charge of the Public Relations Unit; and (ii) the Deputy Conserva-
tor of Forests in charge of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. West Bengal shall appoint not later than
June 30, 1982, consultants, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association, for (i) stove technology, (ii) communication and
extension to help design an extension program and organize
training courses for senior SFW staff, and (iii) monitoring and
evaluation of the Project.
Section 2.09. West Bengal shall establish two circles for
social forestry within SFW with adequate staff, one not later than
June 30, 1982, and the other not later than December 31, 1983.
Section 2.10. West Bengal shall take suitable measures to
ensure that the field staff of the SFW shall live in or near the
areas assigned for their operations and to this end shall provide
said staff with necessary housing or rent allowances.
Section 2.11. West Bengal shall establish by June 30, 1982:
(i) a State Policy Committee which shall ensure
coordination among the various state departments
involved in the Project and determine overall state
social forestry policy; and
(ii) a District Committee in each district in West
Bengal which shall ensura interdepartmental
coordination.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. West Bengal shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures consistently applied, its resources,
expenditures at.d operations related to the Project; and (ii)
furnish to the Association copies of their accounts and financial
statement related to the Project for each fiscal year, certified
as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Association, as soon as available but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of such year.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.02. West Bengal shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and
financial statements related to the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association immediately following
its finalization, the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning such accounts and records, financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of West Bengal thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
West Bengal of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly, given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For West Bengal:
Chief Secretary
Government of West Bengal
Writers' Building
Calcutta
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Calcutta
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of West Bengal may be taken or executed
by the Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as West
Bengal shall designate in writing, and West Bengal shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF WEST BENGAL
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, goods and civil
works shall be bulked whenever practicable for economy and com-
petition for their procurement and be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   (a) Civil works, nursery works (including the production of
seedlings), land preparation, planting and maintenance for village
plantations and construction of stoves may be carried out by force
account of SFW.
(b) Design and supervision of housing and building construc-
tion may be carried out by the Forestry Department or the Public
Works Department of West Bengal.
(c) Contracts for the purchase of research equipment
and other miscellaneous equipment costing less than the equivalent
of $20,000 each may be procured by prudent shopping through usual
trade channels.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review, of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, West Bengal shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before they are issued to
the prospective bidders.


﻿-9-
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, West Bengal
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evealua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform West
Bengal and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, West Bengal shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
this Schedule, promptly inform West Bengal and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract,
or issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases
of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 15% of the original price, West Bengal shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform West Bengal
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
FOR* t-tRETARY


