Report No. PID6760
Project Name                     Ethiopia-Education Sector Development...
Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       ETPA732
Borrower                         Government of Ethiopia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education and Regional
Education Bureaus
address:      Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
contact:       Ato Teferi Hagos Desta
telephone:   251-1-114321
fax:             251-1-550299
Projected Appraisal Date         February 2, 1998
Projected Board Date             May 15, 1998
Date of this PID                 December 17, 1997
1.      COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND.   Ethiopia's population is the second
largest in Sub-Saharan Africa. With a per capita income of $110, one-fourth
the average for the Region, Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the
world. The pervasiveness of poverty is manifest in its poor social indicators.
Ethiopia has the highest reported incidence of malnutrition, and possibly the
lowest road density in the world.
2.      Nearly three decades of civil war and centrally planned economic
mismanagement led to a continuous economic decline. The 1991 average per
capita income fell below the level that had been attained in 1960. The
economy embarked on a path to recovery and growth once the civil strife ended
in 1991. Annual GDP growth averaged around 8 percent and inflation was
maintained below 4 percent between 1993 and 1997.
Ethiopia's education sector is characterized at all levels by extremely
low overall participation rates (309 at primary, 13t at secondary and less
than 1 at tertiary levels). Its gross primary enrolment rate (GER) of 30
percent is one of the lowest in the world and less than half the average for
Sub-Saharan Africa. Only about one out of six primary school-aged children
attend school and one of ten, secondary school. Girls' participation rates
are lower than those of males, especially in rural areas. The majority of
children start school late (the average age of entry to Grade 1 is 11 years);
hence girls who dropout of school upon reaching puberty have had only a few
years of schooling.
Five additional problems characterize the education sector at all levels.
(1) There are severe urban-rural and regional differences in access to schools
and participation rates (ranging from 7T average in predominantly rural Afar
Region to 87T in urban Addis Ababa).    (2) Quality of education is poor with
inadequately trained and poorly motivated teachers and lack of instructional
materials. (3) The system is highly inefficient. As much as one-third drop
out of school in the first year and only half of the age cohort complete the
primary cycle. (4) Physical facilities are in disrepair due to war damage and



absence of preventive maintenance. (5) The sector is seriously under-funded.
Against this background, the Government of Ethiopia (GOE) has proposed a
comprehensive Education Sector Development Program (ESDP) for the period 1997-
2001 as part of a longer term program of 20 years to achieve universal primary
enrolment. ESDP gives foremost priority to increasing access and improving
the quality of primary education, particularly for the rural population and
girls.
PROGRAM OBJECTIVES. The ESDP's development objective is to improve the
overall education attainment of its population, particularly by making primary
education accessible to the masses, and do so while achieving greater social
equity. ESDP aims to achieve these objectives by having (a) more children
attend school, particularly rural children and girls, (b) improving quality of
teaching with better trained and motivated teachers, (c) more books provided
to schools, and (d) schools better run with head teachers trained in improved
school management. Key indicators with which the outcome and impact of the
program will be monitored are:
Base-Year     2001/02
1995/96 /1    Target     Data Source
Suggested Indicators
BUDGETARY AND EXPENDITURE INDICATORS
Education's share of the total budget    13.79            19.0t   RFB/MOF
(current FY)
Primary education's share of the total
education budget                         46.29            659     RFB/MOF
ACCESS INDICATORS
Total number of primary schools
('000)                                   9,670           12,595   EMIS/REB
Total primary (grade 1-8)
enrollments ('000)                       3,788            7,000   EMIS/REB
QUALITY INDICATORS
Share of lower primary (grades 1-4)
teachers who are qualified.              85t              959     EMIS/REB
Total number of upper primary
(grades 5-8) teachers                    27,381          36,777   EMIS/REB
Number of qualified upper primary
teachers                                 5,729            20,000  EMIS/REB
Total number of secondary teachers       12,143           17,463  EMIS/REB
-2 -



Number of qualified secondary teachers   4,910            10,760  EMIS/REB
Number of core /2 primary textbooks
in schoo                                 12,273           51,000  EMIS/REB
Grade 8 examination pass rate            61.79            80.0%   NOE
Grade 4 sample assessment of learning
achievement /3                           n.y.a.           n.y.a.  NOE
EFFICIENCY INDICATORS
Primary school student:section ratio     52               50      EMIS/REB
Secondary school student:section ratio   63               50      EMIS/REB
Grade 1 dropout rate                     28.59            14.2%   EMIS/REB
Total primary school dropout rate        8.4%             4.2%    EMIS/REB
Average grade 4 to 8 repetition rate     12.8%            6.4%    EMIS/REB
Average grade 4 to 8 repetition rate
for girls                                16.29            8.1%    EMIS/REB
Coefficient of primary school
efficiency                               60.0%            80.0%   EMIS/REB
EQUITY INDICATORS
Gross primary enrollment rate in
the two most under-served Regions        16.2%            25.0%   EMIS/REB
Share of girls in primary school
enrollment (grades 1-6)                  38.0%            45.0%   EMIS/REB
n.y.a.: not yet available.
1/Base data will be updated to 1996/97, the year immediately preceding
the start-up of ESDP.
2/Language, math, and science.
3/Survey for the baseline data will be undertaken in the second year of
ESDP (1998/99).
6.      PROGRAM DESCRIPTION.   The ESDP is a five-year time slice of a long term
strategy to reverse the declining trend and to rapidly move toward universal
primary education by 2015. This will require a balanced development of the
education sector at all levels. ESDP is a sector program, comprised of
education activities at all levels -- primary, secondary, tertiary, technical
and vocational education as well as adult literacy and non-formal education.
The emphasis is on the expansion of primary education, improvements in its
quality and a more equitable distribution of educational opportunities. The
Central Government provides the policy framework and resource envelope.
Within the broad guidelines, each Region develops its own plan based on
-3 -



strategies that address specific conditions and goals of the Region. The
details of the program have been developed through the partnership between the
Central and Regional Governments, with all major donors coordinating their
support and advisory roles. The program consists of five sub-sectors and an
institutional development component. Activities and expected outputs of each
are summarized below:
Basic education
activities: construction and rehabilitation of schools, revised
curriculum, teacher upgrading, increased provision of books, basic
education through distance education for out-of-school children,
youth and adults;
outputs: increased access, especially for rural areas, and rise in
enrolment (from average 309 to 50%) over the five-year program,
improved quality of teaching/ learning, increased number of
children completing primary cycle, benefits of basic education
reach out-of-school children and school dropouts.
Secondary education
activities: modest expansion of facilities to reduce congestion,
revised curriculum, teacher upgrading, increased availability of
instructional materials;
outputs: reduced congestion in schools, improved
teaching/learning.
Technical and vocational education and training
activities: employer and market surveys, design of TVET programs,
TVET expansion;
outputs: greater relevance of training provided to the needs of
the job market, hence higher rate of employment among TVET
graduates and the productivity of the economy as a whole.
Teacher training institutes and colleges
activities: facilities expansion, revised curricula, in-service
and distance education for teachers, training of head teachers for
improvement of school management, establishment of national
standards for teaching training, implementation of new career
structure;
outputs: increased share of qualified teachers at all levels,
improved school management, improved teacher performance.
Tertiary education
activities: expansion of faculties in pedagogy, health,
engineering, and public administration (civil service college),
improved efficiency in resource use, student loans and cost sharing
schemes;
outputs: increased availability of trained personnel in four
fields of severe shortages - education, health, engineering and
public administration; cost effective provision of tertiary
education and expansion of access without increasing the burden on
- 4 -



public finance.
Institutional development
activities: strengthen the planning, budgeting, implementation and
monitoring and evaluation capacities of MOE and the Regions,
Improve the policy formulation capacity of MOE, expand EMA and
EMU's capacity to develop and transmit educational programs,
strengthen NOE's capacity to administer national examinations;
outputs: improved annual plan and budget, improved progress
reports, feedback on student performance in national examinations
provided to schools
7.      PROGRAM FINANCING.       The ESDP is the Government's program, developed and
owned by the GOE. The GOE has earmarked almost US$1.3 billion of its total
budget over the five years for education to finance ESDP. This will cover 73t
of the US$1.8 billion needed; donor contributions will total about US$500
million. ESDP has already been launched in 1997/98. IDA will operate as a
lender of last resort, financing the gap between the cost of the ESDP and the
resources provided by the GOE, donors, NGOs, the private sector, and the
community. Annually, sector operational plans and budgets for the following
year, indicative budgets for the remaining years of the program, and a
progress report on the previous year's sector performance will be reviewed
jointly by the Government and donors. This gives the program the flexibility
to adjust its priorities and program to changing needs within the framework of
the Government's sector policy and strategy. The Bank's support will be
allocated each year depending on the sector performance, education needs and
availability of resources from other sources.
8.      PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION.          Program oversight and coordination:
Successful implementation of ESDP requires effective oversight and
coordination. A Regional Steering Committee (RSC) will be set up in each of
the 11 Regions. The Committee will be composed of Regional Heads of the
Education, Planning, Finance, and Works and Urban Development Bureaus and one
or two donor representatives. The Committee, chaired by the Regional Council
Social and Economic Affairs Head, will make decisions involving regional
resource mobilization and utilization, approve regional work plans, and
monitor progress. Regional Educational Bureau will be the Secretariat for the
RSC.
At the center, a Central Steering Committee (CSC) will be set up.
Planning and Projects Department of MOE will serve as its Secretariat.
Membership of the CSC will consist of the Minister of Finance, Minister of
Economic Development and Co-operation, Minister of Education and donor
representatives, and will be chaired by the Senior Minister of Social Affairs,
Prime Minister's Office. The CSC will make decisions involving resource
mobilization and utilization, approve work plans, and monitor progress for the
country as a whole, and facilitate matters requiring inter-Ministerial
coordination.  RSCs will meet at least once every       and whenever moved by
the chair or the Secretariat.   CSC will meet at least once every      and
whenever its chair requests.
Implementation and supervision: Regional Education Bureaus in their
respective Regions and the Ministry of Education at the center will be
- 5 -



responsible for implementation and supervision. At the Regional level, the
responsibilities will be spread between the Regional, zonal and woreda
education offices. At the center, MOE's implementation and supervision
responsibilities will be shared among the central educational agencies (EMA,
ICDR, and NOE), tertiary institutions and the Ministry. The modalities for
sharing of responsibilities and empowerment to spend are being worked out for
the Program Implementation Plan.
Supervision by external financiers will continue to be on a "joint"
basis. Approximately two supervision missions a year will be fielded
consisting of representatives of all financiers.
Annual plans and budgets:    For appraisal, the Planning and Projects
Department (PPD) of MOE will prepare a detailed ESDP work program and budget
for the first two years of ESDP (1997/98-1998/99), and an indicative plan and
budget for the remaining three years. Thereafter, detailed annual work
programs and budgets for the forthcoming year and a revised indicative plan
and budget for subsequent years of ESDP will be required. Guidelines for
preparing the budgeted work program, indicative budgets, implementation
progress report, and monitoring and evaluation reports will be prepared by the
PPD/MOE and disseminated to the Regions each year, six months prior to the
joint donor supervision/review mission which will typically take place in the
month of March. Annual planning of the work program based on evaluation of
implementation progress will provide built-in flexibility to adjust and re-
prioritize ESDP as changes in situation demands.
Procurement arrangements: Regions will be more responsible for
procurement and finances than before. A joint donor effort is being initiated
to harmonize donor procedures and to reduce the administrative burden on the
limited capacity of the Regions. None of the Regions have directly handled
international competitive bidding (ICB) nor have the capacity to do so.
Initially most Regions will defer to the center for large procurement packages
that are to be handled through ICB. Options available to MOE handling
procurement would be its own Procurement Unit, strengthened for ESDP or
contracting out to Educational Materials Production and Distribution Agency,
(EMPDA), if its procurement wing is made autonomous from the parent body, the
Central Procurement Cell (CPC), or a private firm offering domestic or
external procurement services. These details are being worked out by GOE and
will be agreed to by GOE and all donors at appraisal.
Regions differ in their capacity to handle procurement, particularly
involving donors. All will require additional staffing and training; some
will still not have sufficient capacity to manage national competitive bidding
(NCB). Until that capacity is built up, MOE will manage procurement for them.
Fund flow management, accounting, financial reporting and auditing
arrangements: Under ESDP MOE's finance management system will be strengthened
and computerized to facilitate proper monitoring of expenditure and report
generation by financier, implementing agencies, and by category. The
Government is considering two options in fund flow management. The first
option is to channel funds through the central Government to "finance"
bodies at Regional, zonal and woreda levels to function as "financial
institutions" for ESDP, following the established regulations, irrespective
of source of funding. The only additional requirement would be to obtain
monthly bank statements. The second option is to set up sub-accounts under
- 6 -



the control of the Sectoral Ministry and Regional Governments for their
respective activities. For this option, in addition to the strengthening of
the MOE and the Regions at all three levels, rules and directives need to be
established. While sector ministries will not have the independence and
specialization of the finance bodies, this option may simplify the payments in
foreign currency and relation with the donors. In the case of the first
option, these need to be sorted out. Reports will be submitted by
implementing agencies through the Regional Secretariats to the Central
Secretariat and the Central Steering Committee.
External aid to ESDP will be subjected to internal audit. External audit
will be carried out by an independent auditor, acceptable to donors. Auditing
will cover special accounts and sub-accounts and records kept for expenditures
subject to post review (Statement of Expenditures). One comprehensive audit
report will be submitted to all donors not later than six months after the end
of the financial year. The auditor's terms of reference and selection
criteria will be agreed with the donors, and the appointment of the auditor
will be a condition for credit effectiveness.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Monitoring of process indicators
will be undertaken by the units responsible for implementation and supervision
on a regular basis. These units will prepare implementation progress reports
on a quarterly basis. The reporting chains envisaged are:
(i)      progress reports by the first line implementors, submitted to the
Regional Secretariat (RS)
(ii)     RS's commissioning of an evaluation study by an independent body or
bodies
(iii)    preparation of a consolidated report by the RS based on the
implementation progress reports and evaluation reports received,
(iv)    preparation of an action plan by the RS,
(v)     submission of the consolidated report and action plan to the Regional
Steering Committee (RSC),
(vi)    submission of final consolidated report and action plan reflecting the
decisions of RSC to the Central Secretariat (CS),
(vii)   submission of quarterly progress by tertiary institutions, central
educational agencies and MOE to the CS,
(viii) CS' commissioning of an evaluation study by an independent body,
(ix)    preparation of a consolidated report by CS based on Regional
consolidated reports, action plans and progress reports from central agencies,
and centrally commissioned evaluation study.
(x)     submission of CS's consolidated report and action points to the
Central Steering Committee (CSC).
A beneficiary assessments and learning assessment will be carried out at a
mid-point of ESDP and in the last year of its implementation.
11.     PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY.   Sustainability of the development objectives is
extremely important so that each phase builds on the other for an expanding
and improving system. Viewing the sustainability in that light, ESDP will
require the following factors:
Continued Government budget support over the longer term. Education needs to
hold a high priority in the Regional government's budget. The work program
presented by the REB staff to their respective Regional Councils must be of
quality worthy of their support. Capacity building component will emphasize
-7 -



building of planning and budgeting capacity of the Regions.
Cost effective measures must be sought continuously to reduce the unit cost of
education provision. Use of distance education rather than residential
training for teacher upgrading, double-shifting to increase the rate of
utilization of facilities, nomadic schools as an alternative to more costly
boarding schools, increasing student to teacher ratio at all levels, including
tertiary institutions, are such measures. ESDP will need to be constantly
mindful of further cost cutting measures such as multi-grade teaching for
remote and scarcely populated areas. With reduced unit costs and constant
vigilance for cost saving measures, ESDP should be resilient even with
shortfalls in budget support.
Preventive maintenance must be carried out for all school facilities so that
subsequent investments will increase the assets by adding to the existing
stock rather than merely replacing (rehabilitating) them at enormous costs.
Under the ESDP, preventive maintenance will be made a separate budget item.
Teacher motivation must be sustained through effective implementation of a new
career structure for teachers that rewards experience and performance.
Stakeholder participation at all levels. ESDP has strong ownership of the
Regions and individual educational agencies. Participation by other
stakeholders such as teachers, parents and the community as well as non-
government providers of education services and materials has been spotty, non-
systematic, and varied across Regions. For sustainability, their
participation and ownership of ESDP is critical. A strategy for encouraging
stakeholder participation on an on-going basis will be required for credit
negotiations.
12.     LESSONS LEARNED FROM PAST OPERATIONS.
1) Balancing expansion with quality improvements. All IDA projects, in the past,
have attempted to balance quantity with quality: Education I in technical and
teacher education; Education II in secondary, teacher, and agricultural education;
Education III in rural education, teaching of science, and provision of textbooks
and instructional materials; Education IV in non-formal education, Education V,
basic and secondary education; Education VI primary and secondary levels and teacher
training; Education VII on basic education and tertiary education. Experience has
been that quantity targets tend to be met or exceeded. Shortfalls in reaching the
targets occurred with quality targets. ESDP puts as much emphasis on quality.
Enrolment expansion is being complemented with quality improvements from improved
quality of teachers, more relevant curriculum, increased availability of books,
improved school environment, improved internal efficiency, examinations which will
provide feedback to schools to help improve classroom teaching. Moreover,
monitoring indicators also cover the targets for quality enhancing activities.
2)  Flexibility in the details of implementation.     Education VI was being
implemented during the period of civil unrest in the country which posed serious
communication and security problems in implementing the project. The Bank did not
act in a timely manner in tackling problems during project implementation. As a
result, several project locations had to be re-sited. ESDP is flexible across
Regions and across time. While an overall framework for the Program has been set by
the Center, interventions at the Regional level are custom tailored to the Regions'
own priorities. While each Region has an overall framework and targets for ESDP,
- 8 -



detailed work programs are to be reviewed on an annual basis, therefore providing an
avenue to adjust the content and the speed of implementation to accommodate
unforeseen circumstances.
3) Careful survey and selection of school sites to assure accessibility and equity.
Both Education VI and VII school rehabilitation and construction experienced delays
in implementation due to inadequate preliminary survey and failure to take into
consideration the type of terrain, road accessibility for building materials and
supervision crews, and the Government's capacity to supervise works under
implementation in hundreds of scattered sites. Long delays between surveys of
facilities to be rehabilitated and the start up of works contributed to cost
overruns as the facilities, in the meantime, had deteriorated further. In
preparation of the ESDP, School mapping is being carried out to optimally locate
schools. Site selection will be finalized only after the chosen sites have been
assessed for appropriateness through a site visit.. ESDP addresses equity by
locating most new schools in rural areas and expanding classrooms in urban areas
only where congestion poses a serious problem.
4) Attention to macroeconomic environment and the Government's financial capacity.
There was a lack of attention to the weakening financial capacity of the Government
in a declining economy in the design of Education VI and Education VII.
Unrealistically high share of project costs were expected to be born by Government.
Lack of counterpart funds frequently slowed implementation. The problem was
addressed by revision of the DCA to reduce the local funding share from 35% to 15%
for Education VII. The Government of Ethiopia puts a historically high priority on
education and plans to finance as much as 739 of ESDP costs.    While this is
considered within the Government's capacity given its rapid economic growth in
recent years, sound macroeconomic management and projected growth in the medium
term, the Central Ministry and the Regions are drawing up contingency plans for a
possible shortfall in financing.
5) Coordination of responsibilities. Education VI faced difficulties in
implementation and supervision of multi-faceted projects requiring the cooperation
of several implementing agencies (e.g., PMO, EICMA, EMPDA, ICDR). Better
coordination might have been achieved had there been a clarification of and
agreement on each agency's responsibility and continuous monitoring of their
compliance. As ESDP is a sector-wide operation, its implementation will be even
more complex and coordination needs greater. In addition, ESDP is designed for
implementation under a decentralized system. A Steering Committees, with
representations from the PMO, MOE, MOF, MEDAC and donors and chaired by the PMO, at
the center will be responsible for overall coordination and monitoring and
evaluation. Each Region will establish Regional Steering Committees with similar
representations to coordinate, monitor and evaluate implementation at the regional
level.
6) Continuous management oversight of education. Education VI implementation was
delayed due to under-staffing of the Project Management Office, particularly
accountants. ESDP's problems in management are potentially more grave. Regions
that have very weak capacity will be the major players in implementation. ESDP
stresses the need for capacity building as up-front as possible, especially in
procurement, finance management, and monitoring and evaluation. Procedures and
guidelines need to be laid out and staff trained. As a safeguard, those Regions
considered especially ill-prepared will focus on capacity building in the initial
period of ESDP, and swing into implementation of the program when they have acquired
-9-



the minimum capacity.
7) Realistic disbursement schedule. The disbursement schedule for Education VI was
overly optimistic compared to the Country's past performance in the sector. The
proposed ESDP implementation schedule also appears overly optimistic. The schedule
is heavily front-loaded without making allowances for capacity that needs to be
built, procedures that need to be established and disseminated, and learning that
will need to take place. The donors have strongly advised the Government to make
their implementation projections more realistic so that targets set are within reach
rather than setting the program for disappointment from the start.
8) Involvement of stakeholders. ESDP has been developed by MOE in collaboration
with central educational agencies and the Regions. Therefore, there is strong
ownership of the program and its objectives and targets by all key implementing
agencies. However, involvement of other stakeholders, e.g., Zones and Woredas,
teachers and the communities, have been spotty. The success of ESDP and the
sustainability of its development objectives hinges on to what extent these
stakeholders identify with the objectives of the program and support them.
Therefore, the Government is encouraged to take ESDP to the grassroots and to
solicit their participation in numerous decisions on the details that are yet to be
made.
9) Role of the private sector. In Education VI, the GOE insisted on civil works
construction by force account. The performance was poor. In Education VII, basic
education facilities construction was stalemated because of controversy over GOE's
wish to continue with force-account and, when open bidding was attempted,
inappropriate packaging. Since the packaging was made to vary according to the
construction industry's capacity in each Region, the school construction component
moved rapidly and neared completion within 2 years. The Government is no longer
reluctant to use private contractors. ESDP school construction and rehabilitation
will be mostly through private contractors.
10) Need for adequate monitoring and supervision. Security problems, shortage of
staff, lack of local funds and transportation hampered close monitoring of
implementation. The MOE only had a limited knowledge of the sites and the status of
implementation. The Bank's supervision was also insufficient. Only one annual
supervision mission per year was fielded from 1985-88. ESDP supervision of
implementation will be made easier by involving the Regional government.
Implementation progress reports, based on periodic monitoring of implementation,
will be required for the work program and budget for the following year to be
approved. In addition, it is suggested that evaluation be carried out by
independent bodies, reporting directly to the CSC Secretariat. This will provide a
safeguard on the validity of reports. These measures, notwithstanding, adequate
staffing and funding remain an issue.
13.     POVERTY CATEGORY.   Program's poverty-targeted interventions include:
rural focus - most of the newly constructed primary school classrooms will be
located in rural areas to increase rural population's access to education;
disadvantaged area focus - specific targets are proposed for uplifting
enrolment rates in disadvantaged areas;
gender focus - interventions are designed to change their role perception,
participation in education, career advancement in teaching as well as
education management, thereby assisting the more vulnerable half of the
population.
- 10 -



14.     ENVIRONMENTAL RATING.   The environment category is rated C. Anticipated
environmental impact and mitigating measures of the program are as follows.
Construction of a large number of schools (2,500 new primary schools) will be
primarily hollow concrete blocks. Chikka (mud and wattle) is advised against
for long-run cost effectiveness as well as its heavier use of wood.
pit latrines will be constructed in all new schools. Siting of the latrines
will be done mindful of not contaminating sources of drinking water supply for
the school and community.
water will be supplied to schools, wherever possible, to prevent the spread of
diseases due to unclean latrines and unwashed hands.
15.     PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES which characterize the ESDP are:
poverty reduction - the Program reaches out to rural children, particularly
those in under-served areas. It also targets out-of-school children, school
dropouts, illiterate youth and adults who tend to be among the poorest,
through distance education so that they can benefit from basic education,
gender impact - each component of the Program will include interventions aimed
at increasing girls' access to school, improving their performance at school,
retention and transition rates, and increasing the share of female teachers
and education managers in the system who can serve as role models for girls;
community participation - with use of local languages and curriculum reform
which is to bring the content of education more relevant to local conditions,
greater involvement of the community in giving substance of the "local"
content of the curriculum, in the running of schools, and in providing labor
and contributions in kind to school construction;
private sector development - greater role for the private sector in the
provision of technical and vocational training, educational materials and
tertiary education is explored.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 21, 1998.
- 11 -



