Report No. 395-BA
Appraisal of
Irrigation I Project
Burma
May 14, 1974
Irrigation and Area Development I Division
Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the hinternad.onal Bank for Reconstruction and DevelopmienL
International DeveIopmL-nt AssociaLion'
This report was prepaired for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not' be published,
quoted or cited without:13ank G-roup authorization. T ihe Bank GroUJp does niot 'IccepL responsibility
for the acc.uraicy or complepteness of the report.
(



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            Kyat (K) 4.815
K 1.00        =    US$0.2077
K 1,000       =    US6207.68
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - ENGLISH SYSTEM
1 inch (in)                   -    25.40 millimeter (mm)
1 foot (ft)                   -    30.48 centimeters (cm)
1 mile (ml)                   -    1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                   -    0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)         =    2.590 square kilometers (km2)
1 imperial gallon (gal)       =    1.20 US gallon
-    4.54 liters (1)
1 cubic foot (cu ft)          =    28.32 liters (1)
1 cubic yard (cu yd)          =    0.765 cubic meter (m3)
1 acre foot (ac ft)           =    1,234 cubic meters (m3)
1 cubic foot
per second (cusec)               0.0283 cubic meter per second (cumec)
1 pound (lb)                       0.454 kilogram (kg)
1 long ton (lg ton)                1016 kilograms (kg)
=    1.016 metric tons (ton)
1,000 pound per acre (lb/ac)       1,120 kilogram per hectare (kg/ha)
-    1.12 ton per hectare (ton/ha)
ABBREVIATIONS
GOB =      Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
MAF =      Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
ID   =     Irrigation Department
AMD °      Agricultural Mechanization Department
AC   =     Agriculture Corporation
PSD  =     Planning and Statistics Department (of MAF)
DC   =     Directorate of Cooperatives
FAO 3      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
HIC =      Heavy Industry Corporation
MOC =      Myanma (Burma) Oil Corporation
TC1  =     Trade Corporation No. 1
HSD =      High Speed Diesel Fuel
HYV  =     High Yielding Variety (paddy)
O&M =      Operation and Maintenance
TSP =      Triple Superphosphate (fertilizer)
NDP -       United Nations Development Program
UNICEF        United Nations International Children Emergency Fund
WHO =      World Health Organization of tbhe United Nations
BURMA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF THE
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS * 9999999999 *09 9,......... 9.. ei -u
I. INTRODUCTION     ............... 9   , , 9 9  . 9 9 99. 9 9 9 .9... .  , ,  1
II .  BACKGROUND   .  .....................*.*. * * .  * .. . . * *.* .* ... ** .  1
General. *99 ,      ..,,  , ,.                             1
The Agricultural Sector ...,, ,, ,                           1
Irrigation Development in Bur=a *                            2
Project Formulation                           9.     9      3
III    THE PROJECT AREA ...............999  9     9   9   *              3
General 999999999999999999999999..9.99999999999999           3
Climate       p9t99999999999999999999***.*.*.                3
Topography and Soils , . . , ,0  . * * Ot 9 I*It '* ******   4
F'arm Size and Land Tenure .,.............,..,..             5
Existing Flood Protection, Drainage
and Irrigation Facilities ......9..9.....999          5
Agriculture 9 , 9    9     9     9       99       * 9 ,, ,   6
T-ansportation    799t   9***,99*     ** * 9 . * 9
IV,   THE PROJECT ....... 9             9999999999999                    7
Project Description 9 9999999999999999999999999 e*           7
Project Works   , ,,    .,, ,9,9      *9                     7
Engineering 999 999* 9* t.9     9 9'    t 99    9 9
Implementation Schedule ,,, ,. 99999999999 9999              9
Water Demiand, Supply and Q9Ulity 9999999999999999           9
Cogt Estimates t 9, tq     *    ,* 99* 9*     **    *       10
Financing    *   99           9* 9 9 999 9 9 9      . . .   11
Procurement 9 99 99 9 9 9 ,,, . 9 99 9  9 999 9........9... 9 . * ,  12
DPsbursement , ,   9 99 9 9 9.9 9, , * **                   12
Accouo :s and Audits 999999999 99999999999**        9 .     13
Environmental Effects 999999999999999999999999              13
VY    ORGANIZATION AND ANAGEMENT ..................C4......            13
Project Management     9. 99 9 99999999 99999 99.9 9 99 99 9 t*.  9  13
Implementation of Project Works 9999999999999.....          14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Burma in September 1973, comprising Messrs. K. Pranich, R.L.P. Harris
(IDA) and P9 Verot (consultant),



-2-
Page No,
Operation and Maintenance ......................*...      15
Agricultural Supporting Services .................... 16
Recovery of Costs         .......       ..........        17
VI.   PRODUCTION, LBOR REQUIREMENTS, MARKETING, PRICES
AND FAR! INCOME .......................................        18
Production     ........     ..... ...................     18
Labor Requirements ...................... *.......        19
Marketing ............................. .........         20
Prices .    ......................................        21
Farm Income ............................ ...         .    22
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......................    .....      23
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................        24
ANNEXES
1.   Climatic Data
2.   Agriculture
3.   Agricultural Supporting Services
4.   Project Works
5.    Implementation Schedule
6.   Water Demand and Supply
7.   Cost Estimates
8.   List of Equipment and Materials
9.   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
10.   Organization and Management
11.   Operation and Maintenance Costs
12.   Yields and Production of Crops
13.   Farm Labor Analysis
14.   Marketing and Prices
15.   Crop and Farm Budgets
16.   Economic Analysis
MAPS
10735 - Location of Project Areas
10736 - Small Pump Irrigation Sub-Project in Lower Burma and
Minor Flood Embankment Sub-Project
10737 - Small Pump Irrigation Sub-Project in Upper Burma



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture accounts for 40% of Burma's GDP, 70% of employment
and 90% of export earnings. In addition, much of manufacturing, trans-
portation and trade involves the processing, handling and distribution of
agricultural commodities. During the last decade, the Goverrment empha-
sized industrial development and allowed agricultural production to
stagnate. Rice exports declined from 1.7 million tons in 1962 to
600,000 tons in 1972, and zero in 1973 because of drought and a poor
harvest. The failure of agriculture to grow precipitated a change in
Government policy in recent years. The new policy gives first priority
to increasing the output of crops, livestock, fisheries and forest products
for export and to substituting domestic production for imports. Specific
objectives include increased production of rice and jute for export,
cotton to supply raw material for the domestic textile industry and other
cash crops for both domestic consumption and export. The proposed project
fits in well with this new policy, can be quickly implemented and would be
quick yielding. This would be the first Bank Group project for agricul-
tural development in Burma.
ii.       The proposed project would provide small pumps to irrigate some
270,000 ac in the Irrawaddy Delta and 27,000 ac in Upper Burma. m=ninior
flood embankments to reduce annual flooding of 23,000 ac of farm land in
the Delta; spare parts and mechanics' services to repair construction
equipment of the Irrigation Department; and feasibility studies of two
high priority irrigation projects. The project would be implemented by
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests through a Project Committee. The
estimated cost of the project is US$22.5 million equivalent, of which
US$17 million would be foreign exchange for procurement of equipment,
spare parts and imported construction materials, and the remainder local
currency. Except for small off-the-shelf items and spare parts to repair
construction equipment, all contracts for equipment and imported construction
materials would be awarded after international competitive bidding. Civil
works for jute baling plants and minor flood embankments would be small and
scattered over a large area in the Irrawaddy Delta, and would be constructed
by Government force account. Project implementation would take three and a
half years.
iii.      The primary benefit from the project wouled be an increase in the
production of rice and jute for export, cotton to supply the domestic
textile industry and miscellaneous food crops for domestic consumptiorn
and minor exports. Some 330,000 farmers and hired agricultural laborers
would benefit directly from the project. Production would increase from
the present 222,000 tons of paddy and 5,000 tons of miscellaneous crops
to over 300,000 tons of paddy, 37,000 tons of jute, 3,000 tons of seed
cotton and 25,000 tons of miscellaneous crops at full development in



1982. The net foreign exchange earnings from tihe incremental rice and
jute production would be aroutd US$13 million per year. At projected
world market prices for the major internationally traded crops and inputs
and domestic prices for minor crops, a shadow exchange rate of K 10.00 =
US$1 .00 and a seasonally adjusted market wage rate for all farm labor, the
rate of return for the small pumps would be about 42% and for the minor
flood embankments, 22%. The net benefits from the repair of construction
equipment, though not estimated, would be substantial, since an investment
of about US$3.0 million would rehabilitate over US$20 million worth of
equipment which would be used to complete ongoing irrigation and flood
control projects to serve some 144,000 ac.
iv.       Because most pumps procured under the project would be sold to
groups of farmers for cash, it is expected that most pumps wuld benefit
farmers with land holdings larger than 5 ac ('average 11 ac). Suitable
credit facilities are not currently available to enable small farmers
with limited savings to purchase their own pumps.  These farmers would
be able to rent pumps provided by the project from cooperatives. However,
the cooperative system needs to be strengthened and its coverage expanded.
The Government plans to re-establish a State Agricultural Bank which would
provide funds to reactivated village banks for making medium and long term
loans to farmers. The Government is aware of the need to give small
farmers full access to improved farm technologies and has requested Bank
Group assistance in this field. In response to this request, a Bank credit
subsector mission recently visited Burma.
v.        Despite its deliberate production orientation, the project would
nevertheless yield substantial social benefits. With small pump irrigation,
the annual demand for farm labor would increase from 12 million man-days at
present to about 24 million man-days at full development, which would greatly
reduce underemployment in the project areas, particularly in the dry season.
Employment opportunities would be created both for landless laborers and
small farmers, who earn half or more of their annual family incomes by working
for others in peak agricultural seasons and in non-farm employment. The
minor flood embankments and other projects to be completed with equipment
repaired under the project would benefit farmers irrespective of size,
the majority of whom are poor with land holdings less than 5 ac.
vi.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$17 million
equivalent, which is the foreign exchange component of the project. The
credit would contribute 76% of the project cost. The borrower would be
the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.



BU
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
(GOB) has requested IDA assistance in financing the first in a series of
irrigation projects which will require international financial assistance.
The project would provide small irrigation pumps to permit double cropping,
rehabilitation and extension of minor embankments in the Irrawaddy Delta
to prevent crop damage and losses from flooding, rehabilitation of
construction equipment of the Irrigation Department and funds for feasibility
studies for future irrigation projects.
1.02      The project was recommended by the Bank's 1972 economic review
mission to Burma, supplemented by an irrigation identification mission
in October of that year. In March 1973, an FAO/TBRD Cooperative Program
mission assisted the Government in preparing the project. This report is
based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited B-urma in
September 1973, comprising Messrs. K. Pranich, R. Harris (IDA) and P. Verot
(consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Burma's territory covers some 260,000 sq mi. About 27% of the
area, or 45 million ac, is considered arable, but only some 19 million ac
are presently under cultivation. Another 5 million ac are fallow while
the remaining 21 million ac are classified as cultivable waste land, most
of which is unsuitable for rice, the staple crop. Forests cover about half
the area and contain many varieties of -valuable timber, particularly teak.
The 1971 population is estimated at 29.6 million, growing at 2.8% per year.
National income at constant prices has grown at a compound rate of less than
3% per year since 1961, with wide annual fluctuations mainly reflecting
unstable agricultural production. Per capita income in 1971 was about US$80.
The Agricultural Sector
2.02      Agriculture, including livestock, fisheries and forestry, pro-
vides 40% of Burma's GDP, 70% of employment and 90% of export earnings.
In addition, much of manufacturing, transportation and trade involves
the processing, handling and distribution of agricultural commodities.
In seeking to shift the economy to an industrial base during the last
decade, Government policy has tended to place agriculture in a subsidiary
role as supplier of basic foodstuffs and raw materials. The failure of
agriculture to grow, however, precipitated a change in policy. The



-2-
current Four Year Plan (1971-74) gave first priority to increasing output
of crops, livestock, fisheries and forest products for export and to
subst.itute domestic production for imports. A revised plan, put into effect
on April 1, 1974, continues to pursue these objectives. Specific objectives
for the agricultural sector include increased production of rice and jute for
export, cotton to supply raw material for the domestic textile industry, and
other cash crops for both domestic consumption and export. The proposed
project was chosen to reach these objectives quickcly and with low investment
cost.
2.03      Rice is Burma's major crop, accounting for 65% of the cultivated
area. Present area and production are about 12 million ac and 4.8 million
tons (8 million tons of paddy), respectively - about the same as pre-World
War II levels.  About 70% of the area under paddy is in Lower Burma, mainly
in the Irrawaddy Delta. Mostly local varieties are grown and only about
350,000 ac are sown to high yielding varieties (HYV) due to inadequate water
control.  Paddy is also the most important crop in Upper Burma, where lack
of water is the major constraint to increased yields and adoption of LYV.
Although there has been a substantial increase in the use of chemical fertil-
izers during the last: four years, some two-thirds of all farmers still do
not use any. For the remaining one-third, application rates are still very
low - only about 30 lb of all fertilizers (75% of which is urea) per sown
acre for all crops in 1973. With a growing population and stagnant
production, rice exports have declined steadily from a pre-war level of
3 million tons annually to around 600,000 tons in recent years, except for
1973 when rice exports were suspended due to drought and a poor harvest.
GOB has begun cautiously to use price policy and a more liberal marketing
system to encourage increased rice production, particularly for export (para
6.10). Such reforms are essential, but unless there is also a widespread
adoption of HYV, increased use of inputs, new irrigation facilities, expansion
of the cultivated area through further reclamation of forests and swamps,
and intensive development of supporting institutions, rice production will
not increase dramatically and exports may decline even further.
Irrigation Development in Burma
2.04      With 2.3 million ac or 12% of the sown area presently under
some form of irrigation, Burma has one of the lowest ratios of irrigated
to cultivated land in Asia. At the same time, lack of water control is a
major constraint to the widespread adoption of HYV paddy and to the achieve-
ment of higher yields with local varieties of all crops. Irrigation develop-
ment, therefore, has very high priority in Burma's strategy for developing
the agricultural sector.  Only about 300,000 ac are currently double cropped
due tt, laclk of storage facilities for dry season irrigation. Irrigation
water comes mostly from the Irrawaddy River and its tributaries, and is
used primarily to supplement monsoon rainfall during the wet season for
paddy, and to a much smaller extent to irrigate other crops in the dry
season. GOB, through the Irrigation Department (ID), controls and main-
tains the major systems which irrigate about one million ac. Scattered
village irrigation works, constructed and maintained by cultivators,



-3-
irrigate an additional 800,000 ac. In recent years, GOB has given technical
and financial assistance for the construction, operation and maintenance
of some of these works. In the Irrawaddy Delta, low lift pump irrigatior,
has increased during the past decade from an insignificant level to about
250,000 ac in 1973. Another 250,000 ac are irrigated by wells and other
sources, mainly small st aream diversions. In addition, there are about
1,440 mi of embankments, mainly in the Delta, to reduce the effects of
floods from the Irrawaddy River and its tributaries. ID constructed and
maintains these embankments, which presently protect nearly 2 million ac
of cultivated land.
Project Formulation
2.05      In recognition of the priority of improved water control for
agricultural development, GOB has reques-ted Bank Group assistance in irriga-
tion development.  The proposed project is the first in a series of priority
irrigation projects identified for external support.   It was selected
because of its lo;,i cost; it can be quickly implemented, will lead to a rapid
increase in agricultural production and will provide a good basis for further
agricultural intensification.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      Project works would be located in two separate areas (Map 10735).
The first area is located in the Irrawaddy Delta of Lower Burma (Irrawaddy
and the western part of Pegu Divisions), where about 270,000 ac would be
served by small irrigation pumps and a further 23,000 ac would be protected
by minor flood embankments. The second area is located in the central dry
zone of Upper Burma (Magwe, Mandalay and the southern part of Sagai-.
Divisions), where 27,000 ac would be served by small irrigation pumps.
3.02      The rural population in the project areas in Lower Burma is
about 300,000. The national capital and largest city, Rangoon (population
about 2.0 million), is located to the east while the fourth largest city
and capital of Irrawaddy Division, Bassein (population about 100,000),
lies to the west. A number of towns with populations of about 50,000 each
are interspersed among the project areas. The rural population in the
project areas in Upper Burma is about 30,000. The second largest city,
Mandalay (population about 200,000) is centrally located near the project
areas, and there are a number of towns nearby.
Climate
3.03      The climate in Burma is tropical and is under the influence of the
southwest monsoon, which blows off the Indian Ocean, and the dry northeast
monsoon which comes from the Chinese mainland. There are three distinct seasons:
a rainy season from mid May to mid October, a cool season, nearly rainless,



-4-
from mid October to mid February, and a hot season, also dry, from mid
February to mid May. In the Irrawaddy Delta, the average annual rainfall ranges
from about 140 inches near the coast to about 80 inches at the apex of the
Delta near Prome, and averages about 100 inches over the whole Delta.  85% of
the annual. rainfall occurs during the wet season and flooding is a problem.
Even in the wet season, however, rainfall is erratic and supplementary
irrigation would greatly improve crop yields. Irrigation is essentital for
dry season crop cultivation.
3.04      Rainfall in the project areas in the central dry zone of Upper
Buarma is much less, averaging about 30 to 35 inches per year, and is also
concentrated from May to October. The need for irrigation throughout the
year is much more pronounced there than in Lower Burma. The mean annual
temperature for the country ,-s a whole is about 80°F. Average monthly
temperatures intthe project atreas vary only a few degrees around this
level. Upper Burma is a few degrees cooler than Lower Burma during the
cool season and a few degrees warmer during the hot season (Annex 1).
Topography and Soils
3.05      The project areas in Lower Burma are located along the peripheries
of deltaic islands which are surrounded by creeks and rivers branching off
from the main stem of the Irrawaddy. Deposits from recurrent floods have
raised the natural river levees and adjacent land above the surrounding areas,
thus making the islands slightly saucer-shaped, higher at the edge and sloping
down towards the center. The higher grounds are the most productive with
population and garden plots concentrated in a narrow strip, a few hundred yards
wide, around each island. The combined effects of annual river flooding
and heavy local runoff leave large areas in the center of many islands
flooded and impossible to cultivate during the monsoon season.
3.06      The project areas in Upper Burma are located along the banks of
rivers and streams - specifically along the Irrawaddy from Minbu to north
of Mandalay and in the flood plain formed by the Irrawaddy and Chindwin
rivers and their tributaries. The terrain is flat to gently rolling,
generally well-drained but subject to periodic flooding of lower lying
areas during the monsoon.
3.07      Soils in the Delta of Lower Burma are alluvial deposits of the
Irrawaddy River. They consist of clay and heavy loams from the surface
to a depth of 5 to 10 ft, with more silt toward the edges and more clay
in the interiors of the islands. They are slightly acidic with low nitrogen
and phosphate content and respond positively to fertilizers. The peripheral
natural levees are suitable for cultivation of rice, jute, pulses, ground-
nuts and a variety of other crops while the interior low land is suitable
only for paddy and jute.
3.08      In the project areas in Upper Buirma, topsoils are alluvial
deposits of varying thickness. They range from reasonably well drained
loamy soils with good structures and water retention, suitable for cotton,
groundnuts and pulses, to loamy clay soils with slow vertical drainage,



-5-
suitable for paddy and pulses wich cotton on better drained soils. They are
also low in nitrogen and phosphatae and respond well to fertilizers.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.09      Between 1948 and 1965, Burrna carried out extensive reform of land
ownership and all agricultural land was nationalized. Tenancy and land
rent were abolished and a ceiling of 50 ac per family was placed on the
size of farm holdings. Farmers have been granted usufruct rights on their
holdings which cannot be transferred, but there is a legal basis for
children who work the land wit.h their parents to be granted use of the
land upon their parents' death.   Land cannot be mortgaged or taken in lieu
of loan repayment.
3.10      Despite the land reform and the absence of extremely large land
holdings, the size distribution of land holdings in Burma is still skewed.
Land holders may be divided roughly into three groups. The first group
operates less than 5 ac and, along with the landless, must supplement farm
income by proviuing labor services. Although little is known about landless
laborers, it is estimated that 25 to 30% of the rural populatiovl receives the
bulk of its income by working for others, though many of these people may
own some land. The second group operates between 5 and 10 ac and produces
its owm subsistence plus a small surplus. The third group operates more
than 10 ac, generally employs some hired labor full time, and is more
commercialized.
3.11      Data supplied by GOB show the following farm size distribution
in the project areas:
Size      No.                Average
of       of      Farmed      Farm
Holding  Farmers    Area       Size
(ac)     (%)      M%)        (ac)
I.   Lower Burma
up to 5     55         17        2.0
5-10       25         30        7.2
ablove 10   20         53       16.3
Total    100        100        6.2
II.   Upper Burma
up tof 5    60         27        2.5
28        36         7.2
aDovef ;(   12         37       17.2
io Wal   LOO       100        5.6
'XiSt.    Flood Procection, Drainage an& Irrigation Facilities
There ore no grL.avity irrigation' and drainage facilities in the
Delta.  irrigaton by small pumps, mo§tly for pre-monsoon jute, has been
expanding rapidly and served about 250,000 ae in 1973. There are about



10,000 pumps, mostly 4 in low-lift diesel driven, operating in the Delta.
The project areas in Upper Burma presently have no irrigation facilities.
Unlike the Delta, which is crLisscross-d by numerous perennial rivers
and channels, these areas have fewer perennial rivers and streams which
could be usad as soturces of irrigation water.
3.13      In the Irrawaddy Delta there are over a thousand miles. of river
embankments protecting cultivated lands from floods of the Irrawaddy and
its tributaries (para. 2.04).  In addition, since the end of the Second
World War, low embankments (mostly 6-8 ft high) have been built to protect
many islands in the Delta fr om annual floods. These minor embankments do not
enclose the islands but are left open at the southern downstream ends and at
places where major creeks or streams cut across the land, to provide drainage.
Flood water can still come in througlh the open downstream end, but with
reduced depth and magnitude, and the time of flooding is delayed. These
changes in flooding pattern are adequate to allow earlier planting and
harvesting of paddy, resulting in better and more assured yields, as crop
maturing time does not have to extend so far into the dry months. Also be-
cause of earlier harvesting, limited second cropping of pulses and groundnuts
is possible on residual soil moisture on the higher ground. These embankments
were, however, designed and built as low cost structures with thin cross
sections and were supposed to be maintained by villagers. Because of their
sub-standard design and the failure of villagers to maintain them over the
years, aggravated by the unusually high tidal flood of 1967, many of these
embankreents have been eroded and are in dilapidated conditiol.
Agriculture
3.I1      Rice is grown throughout the project areas in Lowe:t Burma during
the wet season. Regular flooding delays transplanting and precludes the
cultivation of improved short duration rice varieties on all but a small
portion of higher natural levee areas protected by embankments. As a conse-
quence, yields are low (average 1,000-1,600 lb/ac). Present annual produc-
tion is about 200,000 tons, about 15,000 tons of which is HYV. Rainfed
double cropping, limited to the higher levees, does not exceed 5% of the
total area arnd mainly involves groundnuts and pulses (Annex 2). Around
%. Yrmers' houses vegetables, bananas and fruit trees are grown for family
consumption.
-S.1i     Rice is also the major crop in the project areas in Upper Burma.
a ecause of the relatively low monsoon rainfall, paddy can be grown only
on low land which accounts for about 70% of the area. Average yields are
oxO - only about 1,000 - 1,200 lb/ac. Present annual paddy production
.s about 10,000 tons, all local varieties. On higher land groundnuts,
sesamum , pulses and some shiort staple cotton are grown. No rainfed double
cropping is possible (Annex 2).
3.16      Agricultural supporting services including research, extension
and provision of inputs are mainly the responsibility of AC. Credit is
provided through a variety of advance purchase schemes. These services
are presently inadequate and are partly responsible for typically low
yields.  GOB has recognized many of the shortcomings, has instituted measures



-7-
for improvement, and has requested Bank GrQup assistance in this area
(paras. 5.10-5.14 and Annex 3).
Transportation
3.17      The Irrawaddy Delta's vast and intricate system of rivers, creeks
and tidal inlets is the basis of a widespread system of transportation by
river craft. Practically every family has a small boat, and small tovws
with jetties and rice mills are evenly distributed. Paddy and other produce
are moved from the farms to town markets and rice mills by boats   Lhere
is regular service by large river craf't, and traffic from Mandalay and beyond
passes through the Delta at Maubin to Rangoon. The Irrawaddy itself is
navigable for 800 mi by large craft. A network of narrow gauge railways
and generally asphalted roads connect Bassein cnd Mandalay with Rangoon.
Local transportation in Upper Burma is largely by bullock cart along dirt
roads and tracks, and by trucks on asphalted roads between major towns on
longer hauls.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Description
4.01      The proposed project would include four separate sub-projects.
The Small. Pump Irrigation sub-project would provide irrigation to a total
area of 270,000 ac in the Irrawaddy Delta of Lower Burma and 27,000 ac
in the central dry zone of Upper Burma. The Minor Flood Embanknent
sub-project would reduce annual flooding of 23,000 ac of farm land in the
Irrawaddy Delta. The Repair of Construction Equipment sub-project would
provide spare parts and mechanics' services necessary to repair over 900
pieces of the Irrigation Department's construction equipment which are
presently inoperable due to lack of spare parts. After repair the equip-
ment would be put to work on four major on-going irrigation projects and
maintenance of existing woirks. Funds would also be provided for carrying out
Feasibility Studies of two high priority irrigation projects.
'ro ject j4orks
'.02      Each sub-project would include several components.  Works to be
carried ou,t are described in Annex 4 and summarized below:
(a)  Small Pump Irrigation. This sub-project would include the
following:
(i)  Procurement of 9,000 sets of 4 in low lift (maximum
30 ft) pumps and 1,000 sets of 4 in high lift (maximum
60 ft) pumps, both driven by diesel engines, and sale
of these pumps to groups of farmers and cooperatives;
(ii)  Procurement of workshop equipment and tools for five
major repair and service stations for pumps - four in



Lower Burma (Eenzada, Myaungmya, Wakema and Maubin)
and one in Upper Burma (in Mandalay Division); and
(iii)  Establishment of four jute baling plants, each with a
capacity of about 7,000 tons per year, for baling the
increased jute production under the project.
(b) Minor Flood Embankments. Works to be executed under this
sub-project include:
(i)  Rehabilitation and improvement of the Dhiantape dlrain
(5 m.i) and embankment (4 mi) and the construction of
a reinforced concrete sluice at the mouth of the
drain (No. 1, Map 10736);
(ii)  Construction of a new Kattiya-Tagundaing embankment
(No. 2, Map 10736), 10 mi long;
(iii) Rehabilitation and strengthening of the existing Kaleik-
Tawkanoot embankment (4 mi) and an 8 mi extension of the
existing embankment (No. 3, Map 10736); and
(iv)  Rehabilitation and strengthening of the Kawe-Thandin
embankment (3 mi) and a 21 mi extension of the existing
embankment (No. 4, Map 10736).
(c)  Repair of Constru-ction Equ pment. This part of the project
would include:
(i)  Procurement of spare parts necessary for the repair of
the Irrigation Department's broken down construction
equipment; and
(ii)  Repair of the equipment to put it back in operable
condition.
(d) Feasibility Studies. Studies to be carried out with the
assistance of FAO!IBRD Cooperative Program and consultants
under the project include:
(i)  Revising the feasibility study financed by UNDP
for the Mu River Irrigation Project, and selecting a
first stage of cpe project which would be suitable for
international filtancing and within GOB's financial
and adminisLrative capabilities; and
(ii)  Completing the feasibility study of another high priority
irrigation project to be selected by GOB in consultation
with IDA from a list of projects which have been under
investigation by IDA and various bilateral agencies over
the last 10 years.



-9-
Engineering
4.03      Small diesel pumps have been chosen because they have proved to
be very efficient, easy to operate, maintain and move about, and are very
popular among Burmese farmers. The Government-owned Heavy Industry Cor-
poration (HIC) owns and operates a large modern factory near Prome which
manufactures this type of pump in cooperation with Kubota Co. of JDpan.
The quality of pumps manufactured by HIC is up to international starndards.
Though most pump parts are ma.ufc;-:.lured in Burma, many engine parts and raw
materials still have to be imported. There are already about 10,000 pumps
in use in the Irrawaddy Delta (para. 3.12), about 8,400 of which have been
built by HIC. HIC would participate in the tender for the supply of 10,000
pump sets under the project (para. 4.09). The minor flood embankm,ents which
are small, simple and easy to construct, have been designed by ID, which
has had many years' experience with similar works. These designs reflect
sound engineering. ID has carefully examined each item of equipment to
be repaired under the project and has prepared a detailed list of required
spare parts (para 4.09).
Implementation Schedule
4.04      The purchase and sale of small pumps and the construction of flood
embankments would be completed over a three and a half year period (1974-
1977), while the repair of construction equipment would be completed in two
and a half years (1974-1976).  The first year would be spent mainly on pre-
paring specifications and tender documents for procuring equipment and carry-
ing out preparatory works. The feasibility studies would be completed
by ,iiid 1 976. Annex 5 shows a detailed implementation schedule.
Water _vrmand, Supply and Quality
4.05      Each of the 9,000 low lift pumps to be used in Lower Burma would
command about 30 ac.  It would provide the commanded area with irrigation
for paddy during the monsoon season, and about 9 ac of either jute or paddy
plus 3.6 ac of miscellaneous crops during thB dry season. Likewise, each
of the 1,000 high lift pumps for Upper Burma would command 27 ac. It would
irrigate 20 ac of monsoon paddy, 8.1 ac of cotton and 4.3 ac of miscellaneous
crops during the dry season. Irrigation requirements for a total area of
270,000 ac in Lower Burma and 27,000 ac in Upper Burma were determined using
the Modified Blaney-Criddle Formula (Annex 6). Because irrigation would be
by srnall pumps with delivery hoses and small short channels, water losses
would be low and the assumed irrigation efficiency of 60% is reasonable.
Calculations show that for both Lower and Upper Burma, the maximum water
requirements would occur in October, when paddy would be in the grain forming
scage. During October, each pump in Lower Burma would be operated 12 hours
a day and in Upper Burma, 10 hours. The pumping time would be considerably
less in other months (Annex 6). This gives some latitude for increasing the
cropping intensity or expanding the command area for each pump in the future.
4.)(      The amount of water to be pumped in Lower Burna is small rela>tive
Lo the available flows in the rivers and channels. During the lowest flow
monrtl of March, when the average flow in the Irrawaddy River drops co 62,000
cusec, the total pumpage would be about 2,000 cusec, or only 3.2% of the



- 10 -
river flow. Together with the proposed pumpage in Upper Burma and thaxt
from the existing 10,000 pumps in the Delta, the total pumpage from all
pumps would be only about 7% of the lowest average monthly river flow and
thus there is more than ample water supply. The areas for pump irrigation
have been chosen along perennial rivers or channels having fresh water
suitable for irrigation all year round. Those areas located. south of the
project areas in the Delta, towards the coast, which are surrounded by or
adjacent to even slightly saline water (500 ppm of salt) are not included.
The water of the Irrawaddy River and its tributaries is noted for its good
quality and suitability for domestic as well as agricultural us-es.
Cost Estimates
4.07      Total project cost is estimated at US$22.5 million equivalent (K 108
million) of which US$17 million or 76% of total project cost is the estimated.
foreign exchange component. Estimates for ptmlp sets, jute baling presses,
equipment, vehicles and related spare parts are based on international prices
adjusted to late 1973 price levels. Estimates of civil works for buildings,
houses and flood embankments.which would be implemented by force account
(para 4.10) are based on similar works recently constructed in Burma, also
adjusted to late 1973 price levels. Physical contingencies of 10% are
allowed on all items, except pumps and accessories, to cover unforeseen
increases in quantities. Price contirngencies for equipment, administration
and overhead, falling from 14% in the first year to 7.5% in the third year
and for civil works, falling from 18% in the first year to 12% in the third
year have been included on both local and foreign cost items, including
physical contingencies. A breakdown of project costs is given in Annex 7
and is summarized below:



/a/a                   %o
Local Foreign  TotalL   Local Foreign   Total-   Total
-----K mil~lion---     ---US$ million----
Small Punmp Irrigation
Pumps and Accessories 3.7   36.9    40.6      0.7    7.7     8.4      37
Workshop Equipment
and Tools           0.3     3.1    3.4       -     0.7     0.7       3
Jute Baling Plants    4.3    2.0     6.3      0.9    0.4     1.3       6
Administration and
Overhead            2.3      -     2.3      0.5     -      0.5       2
Sub-Total       10.6    42.0    52.6      2.1    &.8    10.9      48
Minor Flood Embankments
Embankment Construc-
tion (incl.. imported
materials)           2.4    0.8    3.2      0.5    0.2     0.7        3
Equipment and Spares  0.7    7.5     8.2      0.2    1.5     1.7        8
Administration and
Overhead            0.6      -     0.6      0.1     -      0.1        -
Sub-Total         3.7    8.3   12.0      0.8     1.7     2.5       11
Repair of Construction
Equipment
Spare Parts           0.6   10.8    11.4      0.1    2.2     2.3       11
Repair Services       2.3    -       2.3      0.5     -      0.5        2
Sub-Total         2.9   10.8    13.7      0.6    2.2     2.8       13
Feasibility Studies
Mu River Irrigation
Project             0.5    0.9     1.4      0.1    0.2     0.3        1
Other Irrigation
Project             0.5    0.5     1.0      0.1    0.1     0.2        1
Sub-Total         1.0     1.4    2.4      0.2    0.3     0.5        2
Contingencies
Physical              1.4    2.4     3.8      0.4    0.5     0.9        4
Price                 7.0    16.9   23.9      1.4    3.5     4.9       22
Sub-Total         8.4   19.3    27.7      1.8    4.0     5.8       26
TOTAL             26.6   81.8   108.4      5.5   17.0    22.5      100
/a   Discrepancies in currency conversion due to rouuding.
Financing
4.08      The proposed IDA Credit of US$17 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs of the project. In the event that the local manu-
facturer, HIC (para 4.03), wins the international competitive bidding for
pumps and accessories, the proposed credit would finance an estimated US$14.0
million equivalent of foreign exchange and about US$3.0 million equivalent of
local currency costs. The proposed credit would cover 76% of the estimated



- 12 -
total project costs. GOB would contribute the remaining 24% through annual
budget appropriations.
Procurement
4.09      Pumps and accessories, workshop equipment and tools, equipment
and impcrted building materials for the jute baling plants, imported mate-
rials (cement, reinforcing steel, steel gate and. hoist for sluices, etc)
and equipment for the minor flood embankments (Annex 8), with an estimated
total cost of US$10.5 million ekcluding contingencies, would be procured.
after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. HIC would participate !.n the bidding for the pumps and accessoriees.
(para. 4.03). A preference liraitrd to 15% of the cif price or the prevailing
custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$5,000 each, which are not suitable for international tendering, would be
purchased through normal Government procurement procedures, on the basis.
of comparing price from no less tnan three suppliers. As there are no local
firms representing foreign suppliers in Burma, quotations would have to be
sought directly from overseas suppliers. Such purchases would be limited to
a total of US$50,,000. Since spare parts for the repair of construction
equipment (Annex 8) are specific by make and model, it would neither be
appropriate nor practical to have international competitive bidding for them.
These spare parts, with an estimated cost of US$2.2 million excluding
contingencies, would be procured directly from the manufacturers of the
equipment or their designated agents. Assurances were obtained that con-
sultants to assist in carrying out feasibility studies, estimated to cost
US$0.3 million equivalent in foreign exchange, would be appointed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
4.10      Civil works, namely buildings ana grounds for the jute baling
plants (US$0.9 million excluding contingencies) and earthwork together with
sluices for the minor flood embankments (US$0.5 million excluding contingencies)
which are quite small, simple to construct and scattered over a wide area,
would not be suitable for international competitive bidding. There are no
private contractors in Burma. Therefore, the jute baling plants would be
constructed by AC and the minor flood embankments by ID under force account
(see also para 5.03). The repair of construction equipment would also be
carried out by ID under force account.
Disbursement
4.11      Disbuxrsement from the proposed credit would be m-de at the rate
of 100% against the cif cost of directly imported equipment, spare parts
and materials, and the ex-factory price of pumps and equipment manufactured
locally. For consultants' services, disbursement would cover the actual
foreign exchange costs. The estimated schedules of expenditures and dis-
bursements of the proposed credit are shown in Annex 9.



- 13 -
Accounts and Audits
4.12      All Government agencies including Government corporations must
maintain accounts according to methods and procedures laid down by the
Ministry of Planning and Finance. The auditing of these accounts is the
responsibility of the Central Audit and Inspection Office, headed by a
Director General, acting on behalf of the Counscil of People's Inspectors.
Assurances were obtained from GOB that:  (a) separate accounts for each
sub-project would be maintained by the respective implementing agencies;
(b) MAF would send to the Association copies of the unaudited annual project
accounts within four months of the end of each fiscal year, to be followed
by audited accounts, audited in accordance with sound auditing principles
by the Central Audit and Inspection Office, with translations in English
of the auditor?s report within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Environmental Effects
4.13      There is no schistosomiasis in Burma. Although malaria is still
endemic in the hills and forest areas, it has been almost eradicated in the
project areas in the Delta and in Upper Burma. The Government, assisted by
WHO and UNICEF, has kept surveillance against This disease since 1951.
The project would not affect the current malaria situation in any way.
Reduced flooding due to the minor flood embankments should improve environ-
mental and public health conditions in the protected areas. Pesticides
are imported solely by the Government and sold by AC, which instructs and
supervises farmers in their use. No adverse environmental effects are
therefore expected to result from the project.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
5.01      The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) would be responsible
for the project, which would be carried out by four of its agencies (Annex 10,
Figure 1). The Agricultural Mechanizat.ion Department (AMD) would be executing
agency for the irrigation pumps, while the Agriculture Corporation (AC) would
be responsible for establishing the four jute baling plants and for providing
extension services, seeds and agricultural inputs to farmers in the project
areas. The Irrigation Department (ID) would be executing agency for the
remaining three sub-projects. The Planning and Statistics Department (PSD)
would coordinate all aspects of the project and monitor project benefits.
In addition, the Directorate of Cooperatives (DC) of the Ministry of Coopera-
tives would ensure the distribution of diesel fuel, lubricant and grease for
the pumps. A Project Committee including the heads of these five agencies
as members, under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister of MAF and with the
Director General of ID as project coordinator, would be established to direct,
supervise and monitor project implementation. The proposed project management
is presented in Annex 10, Figure 2. A condition of credit effectiveness would
be that the Project Committee had been established.



- 14
Implementation of Project Works
5.02      Smal.L Pump Irrigation. At  would be responsible for procurement
and sale or pumps to groups of farmers and cooperatives. The sale and
distribution of pumps would be made at AND's local tractor stations scattered
throughout the project areas (Annex 10, Figure 3 and Table 1). The terms of
sale would be the same as the current ;ractice, that is on cash for a group
of at least three farmers cultivating farm lands totaling at least 20 ac, anid
50% down payment with the balance to be paid within 12 morths for cooperatives.
All applications to purchase pumps must be approved by AC's village tract and
township extension officers before AMD can sell the equipment (para 5.10).
At present AND has over 5,000 approved applications from groups of farmers to
purchase pumps for cash, so there should be no difficulty in selling all of
the 10,000 pump sets provided under the project within the three and a half
year implementation period. AC would be responsible for setting up the
four jute baling plants, including construction of buildings and grounds,
procurement and installation of baling presses, gener ating sets and related
equipment. It would also provide agricultural supporting services to farmers
in the project areas (Annex 10, Figure 4). Assurances have been obtained
from GOB that it would establish a separate account for the proceeds of the
sale of pumps and accessories provided under the project, and that within
two years from the date of signing the credit agreement, GOB would use the
funds in this account to provide medium and long-term credits to farmers,
through credit institutions acceptable to the Association.
5.03      Minor Flood Embankments. ID would be responsible for the final
design and construction of minor flood embankments, Dhantape drain and sluice
and for procurement of equipment and materials needed for their construction.
As is the current practice, ID would operate the sluice and maintain the
embankments. ID has a large staff of competent civil, mechanical and elec-
trical engineers, technicians and skilled workmen (Annex 10, Figure.5).
It is an efficient organization headed by a competent and experienced
Director General and has considerable experience in the design and con-
struction of irrigation projects, including minor embanknments throughout
the Delta,
5.04      Repair of Construction Equipment,   ID would procture the necessary
spare parts anid wfould repair the construction equipment listed in Annex 8.
This equipment broke down in the course of normal operation and could not
be repaired due to the lack of spare parts and foreign exchange to buy them,
rather than lack of maintenance capability. ID has several large workshops
and equipment repair shops and a large corps of skilled mechanics. Once
provided with spare parts, it would be able to carry out the repair satis-
factorily with its own personnel.
5.05      Feasibility Studies.   ID would be responsible for carrying out
the feasibility stu6ies. Although a feasibility report has already been
prepared for the Mu River Irrigation Project, it would be necessary for
FAO/IBRD CooDerai;ive Program assisted by consultants (para 4.09) to update
the report anca to perform the additional survey work and analysis required
to invest igaze fully the possibilities for two-stage development. Details
of tae requ-ired additional investigations and studies are outlined in a



- 15 -
report prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program which has been sent to
GOB. Limited consulting assistance (para 4.09) would also be provided to ID
in carrying out the feasibility study of another high priority irrigation
project (para 4.02 (d)).
Operation and Maintenance
5.06      Small Pump Irrigation. Groups of farmers and cooperatives would
operate their own pumps and would provide routine maintenance. Estimated
operation and maintenance costs are shown in Annex 11, AMD would provide a
one-week training course on pump operation and maintenance to every group of
buyers at its; local tractor stations. AMD operates 14 tractor stations in
the project aireas in Lower Burma and 28 in Upper Burma (Annex 10, Table 1).
These stations would provide repair and back-up maintenance services
for pumps in their operating areas. Four stat:-ons in Lower Burma (Henzada,
Myaungmya, Wakema and Maubin) and one in Upper Burma (in Mandalay Division)
would be fitted out as major pump repair and overhauling stations. They would
be provided under the project with modern workshop equipment and experienced
mechanics.
5.07      At present Burma produces about 50 million gal of petroleum fuel
annually for domestic use, including high speed diesel oil (HSD), and is
expanding its extraction and refinery capacity. The Government-owned
Myanma (Burma) Oil Corporation (MOC), is responsible for all activities
concerning oil from extraction to distribution of finished products. MOC
has 23 depots for storing oil, strategically located to meet the country's
requirements, and 272 sale points in over 200 townships throughout the
country. In the project areas in Lower Burma, there are 3 depots and 15
HSD sale points in the 15 townships in which pumps would be sold. The
incremental requirement for HSD in the pump sub-project areas in Lower
Burma would increase from 0.6 million gal in 1975 to 3.5 million gal in
1978 and thereafter. The Inland Water Transport Corporation, with IDA
assistance (Credit 413 BA), is increasing the number of its transport barges
and tugs and will be able to cope with the increased transportation requirement
for this HSD down to township level. In Upper Burma the increased requirement
for HSD would be much less since there would be only 1,000 pumps spread over
a much larger area, and no transport problems are expected. Because the
timely availability of adequate supplies of fuel and lubricants is essential
for successful project implementation, assurances were obtained from GOB that
MOC would supply adequate quantities of RSD, engine lubricating oil and grease
to its sale points in each township, and that these sale points would maintain
running stocks of HSD sufficient to operate the ptumps in their areas of coverage
for at least 14 days in the pumping seasons.
5.08      To supply fuel for the 10,000 pumps provided by the projectX, the
present number of MOC township level sale points would be insufficient. More
distribution points at more convenient locations would be necessary so that
farmers would not have to travel more than a few miles to buy fuel. The
appropriate place for these distribution points would be the primary coopera-
tive society stores at the village tracts. In each township where the
project areas are located, there is a township cooperative society, which



- 16 -
performs whoilesaling functions for its aEfiliated primary village tract
cooperatives. The township cooperatives would purchase the required HSD
and lubrtcants from the MOC township sale points, and sell them to the
village tract cooperatives. To ensure the timely availability of adequate
HSD supplies, village tract cooperatives would have to maintain a running
stock of HSD fuel in 46 gal steel drums, sufficient to supply the pumps
in their areas for at least 14 days. Assurances were obtained that GOB would
cause:  (a) participating township cooperatives to purchase the HSD and
lubricants required for pumps in their jurisdiction fromi the MOC township
sale points; (b) participating village tract cooperatives to buy from their
township cooperatives the necessary HSD to maintain a running supply for
at least 14 days for pumps in their jurisdiction; and (c) the Union Bank
of Burma to provide adequate credit to the village tract cooperatives, through
the township cooperatives, to enable them to maintain the required running
stock of HSD.
5.09      Minor Flood Embankments. Due to poor maintenance, which until
a few years ago was the responsibility of farmers, many embankments are
now eroded and in a dilapidated condition. The subsequent transfer of this
responsibility to ID did not improve the situation much, because the Depart-
ment's budget appropriation for maintenance (about K 4 per ac of land pro-
tected) has been inadequate. In this project, ID would be responsible for
maintaining the embankments, the Dhantape drain and its sluice. It is
estimated that after the embankments are rehabilitated, about K 7 per ac
of land protected per year would be sufficient for satisfactory maintenance
(Annex 11). Assurance were obtained from GOB that ID would properly
maintain the minor flood embankments, drain and sluice under the project,
both during and after construction, and that GOB would provide ID with
adequate and timely funds for the purpose.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.10      AC provides agricultural supporting services including extension,
farm inputs, approval of applications for the purchase of equipment, seed
production and distribution, and conducts agricultural research (Annex 3).
Headed by a Managing Director, AC has extension officers at division,
townTship, village tract and village levels.
5011      For the project areas, the Division Extension Officers would be
responsible for extension and inputs. There are at present about 70 village
managers in the project areas in Lower Burma and seven in Upper Burma, each
responsible for an average of 600-700 farm families. A general program to
increase the number of village managers is now in progress. By 1980, GOB
intends to have some 115 village managers in the project areas in Lower
Burma (one for 500 families) and 14 in Upper Burma (one for 400 families),
with the higher density in Upper Burma due to the greater extension needs
for cotton. The intended coverage would be adequate to achieve the project's
modest yield and production goals. All village managers in the small
pump sub-project areas would be given special instruction in pump irrigation
at AC's central experiment stations and AND's tractor stations. Farmers
would in turn receive advice on better use of pumps and water, HYV, fertilizers
and pes ticides.



- 17 -
5,12      The Agrricultural Research Institute at Yezin, about 225 mi north
of Rangoon, conducts basic research, mainly for paddy, while applied research
is carried out at 16 research stations around the country. These stations
deal mainly with varietal selection, cultural practices and fertilizers, and
provide foundation seed for all major crops. There are 59 Government seed
farms which produce registered seed, which is then multiplied by private
growers under AC supervision and sold directly to neighbors. The system
of producing selected seed is basically sound, but improvements are needed
in personnel, equipment and facilities (Annex 3).
5.13      AC delivers fertilizers to township and primiary cooperative stores
which sell them to farmers for cash (Annex 3). The present world market
shortage of fertilizers is unlikely to affect the proposed project.  Burma
has two new urea plants with total annual capacity of 130,000 tons, which
is about equal to present use. Proposed fertilizer applications with the
project are modest -- about 65 lb/ac urea and 35 lb/ac TSP on average for
all crops. No problem is expected in importing the estimated incremental
requirements of 8,000 tons urea and 4,000 tons TSP annually. Latest Bank
projections of world market fertilizer prices have been used in the economic
analyses (para 7.01 and Annexes 14 and 16). AC imports pesticides and sells
them to farmers at subsidized rates. Village managers instruct farmers in
their use. Chemical herbicides are not generally used,
5.14      Seasonal production credit is provided through a variety of
advance purchase schemes. For paddy, the township cooperatives purchase the
crop in advance at the official price, paying 70% of the total before
harvest. For jute-, AC pays K 100 per sown ac against future delivery, while
for cottons, the advance amounts to 70% of the value of the crop at official
prices.  The rural credit system does not work well, and GOB plaans to estab-
lish a State Agricultural Bank to provide funds to village barnks for making
medium and long term. loans to farmers for development purposes (Ann<e 3).
Assurances were obtained that GOB would cause AC to provide adequate extension
services and agricultural inputs to farmers throughout the project areas,
Recovery of Costs
5.15      The small pumps would be sold for cash to groups of farmers, and
for 50% down payment with the balance to be paid within 12 months to coop-
eratives (para 5.02). Owners of pumps would be responsible for meeting
their own operation and maintenance costs (para 5.06), For the minor
embankments and drain, O&M costs of K 7/ac would be collected by GOB through
the Consolidated Land Revenue (Annex 2), either through reclassification of
lands protected by the embankments to reflect their increased productivity,
or by revising the existing rates. The sub-project would not provide
irrigation water and would not completely eliminate the risk of floods, but
only reduce their extent, depth and duration. The farm families who live
in the presently flooded areas are among the poorest in Burma, and even
with the project at full development their family incomes of about K 800
per year (paras 6.16-6.17) would be only about one-third the national
average. As all Burmese farmers, these farmers already pay a high implicit
tax on all paddy which they sell at low official prices (para. 6.14). For
these reasons, it would not be appropriate tp recover the capital costs of
the embankments directly from the beneficiaries. GOB informed the Association



that it would recover the maiatenance cost of the minor flood embankments
and drain constructed under the project from beneficiaries. This might take
the form of reclassifying the land improved as a result of the project. Such
reclassification is provided for under existing legislation.
VI. PRODUCTION, LABOR REQUIREMENTS, MARKETING,
PRICES AND FAR4 INCOME
Produc-tion
6.01 .    Estimates of increased production due to the project have been
made for the small pump irrigation and minor flood embankments sub-projects
only, and exclude that which would result from the repair of construction
equipment. Details are presented in Annex 12. The yields assumed are
conservative and are based on those presently achieved in Burma under similar
conditions.  Only minimum improvements in the provision of inputs and
supporting services are anticipated, and potential will remain in the
project areas for further production increases as supporting institutions
and services are strengthened.
6.02      Rice would continue to be the dominant crop under both sub-pro-
jects. In Lower Burma, the small pumps would irrigate 270,000 ac of wet
season paddy and would permit double cropping in the dry season with either
jute or HYV paddy, plus oilseeds, pulses and vegetables.  The cropped area
is expected to increase from around 280,000 ac (105%) presently to 380,000
ac (140%) at full development. In Upper Burma, the pumps would irrigate
wet season paddy and dry season cotton, groundnuts, pulses and vegetables
on 27,000 ac. The cropped area is expected to increase from 23,000 ac
(84%) presently to 32,000 ac (120%1) at full development,. Planned improve-
mean-:s in cultivation practice include a substantial increase in the area
planted to HYV paddy and an increase in the use of fertilizers and pesticides.
Buffaloes and bullocks would continue to be used for most plowing, supple-
mented by a small number of tractors to prepare land for dry season paddy,
jute and cotton. No major iiicrease' in farm mechanization is expected.
6.03      The average yield at full development for local paddy would be
about 2,000 lb/ac, and for HYV -would range from 2,600 lb/ac in. Upper Burma
in the wet season to 3,200 lb/ac in Lower Burma in the dry season. For
jute fiber the average yield is expected to be 1,000 lb/ac; for seed cotton,
900 lb/ac; for unshelled groundnuts, 1,000 lb/ac; for pulses, 900 lb/ac; and
for vegetables, 4,000 lb/ac. Total production from the sub-project areas
at full development would be 3,000 tons of seed cotton, 37,000 tons of jute,
290,000 tons of paddy (alternatively 420,000 tons of paddy if HYV paddy is
grown instead of jute in Lower Burma during the dry season), plus 25,000
tons of ollseeds, pulses and vegetables. Thiis would represent incremental
production of 3,000 tons of cotton, 37,000 tons of jute, 55,000 tons of
paddy (or as much as 190,000 tons if farmers grow paddy instead of jute) and
18,000 tons of other crops compared with future conditions without the project
(Annex 12, Table 1).



- 19 -
6.04      The minor flood embankments would protect 23,000 ac in Lower
Burma from annual floouding and would permit earlier transplanting of local
paddy, limited introduction of HYV paddy and some double cropping in the
dry season with groundnuts and pulses. The cropped area. is expected to
increase Lrom 23,000 ac at present to 24,400 ac at full development. The
average yield of local paddy would be 1,700 lb/ac and of HYV paddy, 2,800
lb/ac. Yields for groundnuts and pulses would be lower than with irriga-
tion. Total production at full development would be about 20,000 tons of
paddy and 500 tons of other crops. This would represent incremental produc-
tion of 8,000 tons of paddy and 500 tons of other crops compared with future
conditions without the project (Annex 12, Table 1).
6.05      The areas irrigated or protected from flooding would increase
gradually over four years. It is assumed that crops would achieve full
development yields four years after receiving either irrigation or flood
protection.  The net benefits from both sub-projects are therefore assumed
to increase over an eight year period, reaching full development levels in
1982.
Labor Requirements
6.06      The farm labor situation if; analyzed in detail in Annex 13.
Because of the relative size of the sub-projects, by far the largest employ-
ment impact would occur in the areas to be irrigated by small pumps in
Lower Burma. However, the labor situation is qualitatively similar in all
project areas. In all project areas combined there are about 54,000 farm
families and 23,000 seasonal laborers presently engaged in agriculture.
The available farm labor supply is estimated to be about 26 million man-
days of family labor per year and up to 3.8 million man-days of family
and hired labor per month in peak months. Based on recent trends, the
annual family labor supply is expected to grow to 31 million man-days by
1982, and the peak monthly supply to 4.6 million.
6.07      Under present cropping conditions, only about 12 million man-days
per year are needed for farm work. In future without the project, there
would be need for only about 13 million man-days. The severity of under-
employment is accentuated by the seasonal nature of the present farm labor
requirement. Although essentially full employment of family and hired
labor prevails during transplanting and harvest of the main wet season
paddy crop, the demand for farm labor during the dry season is practically
nil. At full project development there would be a doubling of farm employ-
ment opportunities tV- about 24 million man-days. Full employment would
prevail in three or four months, depending on the cropping pattern.
6.08      Information on wages actually paid in the project areas is limited.
Most farm work is done by unpaid family labor, and hired labor is frequently
paid on a seasonal basis and in kind. The market wage for hired labor in
peak seasons is about K 4 per man-day. In months of high unemployment,
which characterize most of the year except during transplanting and
harvesting seasons, the opportunity cost of farm labor is much less than K 4
per man-day. The annual economic cost of farm labor was estimated based on
available information on seasonal supply and demand, and the opportunity



- 20
cost of foregone off-farm employmenit. The resulting economic cost is
enuivalent to pri-ongC all ineremental farm labor at a-n average wage of about
K 2.8 per man-day (70% of the full employment market wage) for the small
pump sub-project in Lower Burma, and K 2.3 per man-day (58% of the full
employment market wage) for the small pump sub-project in Upper Burma and
the minor eml)ankments sub-project. At these rates the incremental economic
cost of farm labor at full project development amounts to 20%-30% of the
incremental net value of production (without a'ccounting for labor or
irrigatioca costs) for the small pump sub-projetct, and 8% for the minor
embankments sub-proj ect.
Marketing
%.09      From a national point of view, t:here should be no trouble in
marketing the increased production from the project. Incremental paddy
production of as much as 190,000 tons (115,000 tons of rice) could easily
be exported at world market prices. Incremental jute production of
37,000 tons could also be exported without adversely affecting the world
market, while the 3,300 tons of seed cotton (1,000 tons of lint) could be
absorbed by the domestic textile industry. Production of oilseeds, pulses
and vegetables would be small relative to domestic demand and sale of these
comvodities should pose no problem.
6.10      GOB exercises extensive control over the internal pricing and
marketing of agricultural produce. The mest important state trading agency
for agricultural products is Trade Corporation No. 1 (TC 1). TC 1 buys
paddy at fixed prices directly from farmers or through cooperatives, mills
it and distributes rice throughout the counatry or to the state export-
import monopoly (MEIC) for export. Until November 1, 1973, farmners had to
sell all paddy not needed for consumption and seed to the Government at low
official prices, except for small amounts which could be sold freely
within the township of origin. Since then the official purchasing price has
been raised by about 40% to about K 290 per ton (US$60 at the official
exchange rate and only US$29 at the shadow exchange rate of K 10.00 - US$1.00),
which is still extremely low, At the same time, the marketing system has
been somewhat liberalized. Now, farmers in specified rice surplus townships
must sell a minimum quantity of paddy, based on size of land holding and
yield, to TC 1 at the new fixed prices. and are allowed to sell the remainder
freely within the country. Rice exporting is still a state monopoly. For
cotton and jute, farmers must sell all their output to AC at fixed prices.
AC then processes and bales the fibers and sells cotton to the state tex-
tile corporations for domestic manufacture, and jute to TC 1 for further
sale either to domestic state-owned mills or to MEIC for export. Groundnuts,
vegetables and most pulses can be sold freely by farmers. Controlled
pulses, which are generally those exported by MEIC, must be sold at fixed
prices through the cooperatives. Analysis indicates (paras 6.16-6.17 and
Annex 15) that with present price and marketing policy, farmers would have
sufficient incentive to undertake the proposed modest level of improvements
under the project. However, Burma's price and marketing policy i8s ai
important issue.which may affect future projects, particularly if they are
designed to produce substantial rice exports. This matter deserves continued
close attention.



- 21 -
6.11      Rice milling is Burma's largest industry.   Tnere are presently
800 mills in the country of which 12 belong to cooperatives, 31 to TC X
and the rest to private owners, although mill operation and charges are
controlled by GOB. Total national milling capacity of some 4.7 million tons
of rice annually, concentrated mostly in irrawaddy and Pegu Divisions (in-
cluding Rangoon), is only about half utilized due to inadequate paddy
deliveries. However, because of the poor physical condition of many mills
the rated capacity may somewhat overstate actual capacity. Of the 800 mills,
only 26 can produce superfine quality (5-10% broken) rice, about 100 can
produce medium quality (15-25% broken) rice while the remainder can only
produce low quality (35-42% broken) rice, with considerable losses. Although
GOB continues to build new mills, the low controlled milling charges (K 10
per ton for government-owned paddy and K 20 per ton for privately-owned
paddy) cover only operating costs aiad leave nothing for maintenance or
rehabilitation,  Storage of about 2 million tons of paddy annually, about
60% owned by TC 1 and 40% by the private sector, is presently adequate but
many of the 4,000 warehouses, particularly in the private sector, are
deteriorating.  TC 1 would like to rehabilitate the industry and provide
modern storage, drying and milling equipment. There is also need to introduce
a management system that would encourage mill operators to run their plants
more efficiently. The Asian Development Bank is currently appraising a
project to assist this industry and alleviate some of its most pressing
problems.
6.12      AC grades and bales the jute it buys from farmers, and then sells
the baled jute to TC 1 either for domestic mills or export. There are
presently 13 baling presses in Burma, dispersed throughout the production
areas and in Rangoon, with annual capacity of 118,000 tons, Production
for 1974 is estimated at 100,000 tons. With incremental production
from the project areas of 37,000 tons and an assumed increase of 9,000
tons from outside the project areas, baling capacity would have to
increase to 146,000 tons by 1982. The project therefore includes funds
for constructing four additional jute baling plants with annual capacity
of 7,000 tons each at sites to be de,-ermined by AC (para. 4.02).
Prices
6.13      For the economic analysis, projected 1980 world market prices in
1974 currency values have been used as the basis for deriving farm-gate
prices for paddy, jute and cotton. Farm-gate prices for groundnuts, pulses
and vegetables were estimated from present and projected domestic prices.
Economic prices for fertilizers and HSD for the small pumps were also based
on projected world prices.
6.14      There is substantial evidence that the Kyat is overvalued at the
official exchange rate of K 4.815 = US$1.00. GOB maintains strict control
over all official foreign exchange transactions and the "price" of foreign
exchange therefore does not directly influence supply or demand for official
purposes. Because there is no official "market" for foreign exchange, it
is difficult to estimate its opportunity cost. The unofficial market currency
rate of K 14-15 = US$1.00 may be taken as an upper limit, but it reflects



- 22 -
dEe n  for luxury im orts, capital f light, etc . as well as "normal" daTmando
International price comparisons indicate that the rate of K 10.00  US$1.00
is a reasonable estimate of the value of foreign exchange to the economy.
The overvaluation affects agriculture in general and the proposed project
in particular in several important ways. 'First, it understates the value
to the economy of equipment and parts to be imported under the project, and
foreign exchange to be earned or saved by incremental production from the
project.  Second, it encourages the use of low official producer prices,
which serve as an implicit "tax" on farmers who sell their output to
Government agenc:ies at official prices, and which limit JIInc 'tives to
increase production. Third,, for purposes of international comparison, it
exaggerates the purchasing power of farmerst cash incomes, since much of
what they buy is available only in the unofficial free market at prices
several times official domestic prices which are related to internaLional
prices throug~a the official exchange rate. For these reasons, a shadow
exchange rate of K 10.00 = US$1.00 has been used for converting all world
prices to domestic currency equivalents in the economic analysis (para. 7,01)
and for estimating foreign exchange equivalents of farm incomes (para. 6.15).
For details see Annex 14.
6.15      For the farm income analysis, estimates of domestic prices which
farmers would actually face have been used. For the principal crops and
inputs, these prices are for the most part administratively determined by
GOB and are generally much lower than the prices us,ed in the econom:Lc
analysis. Details on both economic and financial prices are presented in
Annex 14.
Farm Income
6.16      For small pump irrigation, farm models have been prepared for
both Lower and Upper Burma, covering typical farms of 2, 8 and 16.ac.
Small farmers (2 ac) would rent punps from cooperatives while medium and
large farmers (8 and 16 ac) would form groups and buy their own pumps.
Farm models have also been prepared for areas to be protected by minor
flood embankments, covering typical farms of 2 and 8 ac. The estimated
present annual farm incomes and those projected at full development for eight
different farm models are presented in Annex 15 .and sumarized below:
Farm             Present   Future
Area                   Size                  - K
ac
Small Pumps in Lower Burma     2                 745    1o400
8               2,645    3,900
16               4,340    6,880
Small Pumps in Upper Burma     2                 405     920
8               1,595    1,770
16               2 ,245   2,585
Minor Embankments              2                 405      835
8               1,440    2,785



- 23 -
6.17      The small farmers (2 ac) in the Upper Burma dry zone and the
areas to be protected by embankments have very low farm incomes of around
K 400 (US$40) at present, which would increase Ln K 800-K 900 (US$80-
US$90) with the project. These farmers would not be fully employed on
their own farms, evern with the project, and would supplement their farm
incomes by working on larger farms in peak seasons and by off-farm employ-
ment in the dry season. The small farmers who would rent pumps in Lower
Burma would be better off; they would be fully employed over theB year with
the project, with farm incomes of around K 1,400 (US$140). Incomes of
mediuiu size farmers (8 ac) in the project areas range at present from K
1,400 (US$140) to K 2,600 (US$260). Family labor is fully employed and
there may be small amounts of hired labor in peak seasons. With the pro-
ject, incomes for this group would range from K 1,-800 (US$180) to K 39900
(US$390) and more hired labor would be employed. Large farmers (16 ac)
who would buy pumps presently have incomes of K 2,200 (US$220) to K 4,300
(US$430) and must employ two or three hired laborers (at 100 working days per
laborer per year). With the project, their incomes would increase to aroind
K 2,600 (US$260) to K 6,900 (US$690) and they would employ an average of
eight or nine hired workers per farm in Upper Burma to eleven or twelve
in Lower Burma. Each laborer would earn an average income of K 400 (US$40)
for 100 days' work, which would equal the present farm income of poorer
2 ac farmers.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      In areas to be irrigated by small pumps, rice would continue to
be the principal crop, supplemented by irrigated dry season jute or HYV paddy
in Lower Burma, cotton in Upper Burma and oilseeds, pulses and vegetables
in both locations. Assuming a 20-year sub-project life, projected 1980 world
market prices for the principal crops, fertilizers and diesel fuel, a shadow
exchange rate of K 10.00 = US$1.00 and a seasonally adjusted market wage rate
for all farm labor, the economic rate'of return would be about 42% if jute
is grown as a dry season crop in Lower Burma and 52% if HYV paddy is grown.
Which cropping pattern gives a higher rate of return depends on the relative
world prices and production costs for jute and paddy. Which crop is actually
grown would depend on relative financial returns to farmers, over which GOB
has considerable control through domestic price tnd subsidy policies. PSD
would pay particular attention to this matter in the monitoring of project
benefits. Whichever crop appears in the cropping pattern, the economic
rate of return would be substantial. The foregoing rates are dominated
by the results in Lower Burma. For Upper Burma alone, the rate of return
would be about 31%. For the minor embankments5 with the same assumptions
except a 30-year sub-project life, the rate of return would be about 22%
(Annex 16). The rate of return was not computed for the repair of construction
equipment. However, an investment of US$3.0 million equivalent would re-
habilitate over US$20 million worth of equipment which would be used to
complete ongoing irrigation and flood control projects to serve some 144,000
ac. The net economic benefits would therefore be substantial.
7.02      Sensitivity of the rates of return to likely adverse conditions
was tested. If pumps are not replaced after the first set wears out,



- 24 -
reduc'.ng the sub-project life to eight years, and the area served by each
pump is reduced by 25%, the rate of return would be about 23%. The embank-
ments proved to be most sensitive to construction cost overruns. If costs
are increased by 15% and benefits slipped accordingly, the rate of return
would be 14%.  If all incremental farm labor is evaluated at the peak market
wage of K 4 per man-day, the rate of return would be 29% for the pumps and
21% for the embankments. If all foreign exchange costs and benefits are
converted to local currency at the official exchange rate, the rate of return
would be 13% for the pumps and 14% for the embankments.
7,03      Both the small pump and the minor embankments sub-projects
would have low investment costs--US$30 and US$50 per ac, respectively.
Although the increase in yields and production due to the project are modest
(para 6.01), the economic rates of return of both sub-projects are quite
high, reflecting their high priority in Burma's strategy for developing the
agriculture sector. These low-cost, quick-yielding investments with minimal
improvements in inputs and supporting services would provide a minimum infra-
structure package to achieve an immediate production response. They would
not fully exploit the potential for agricultural development in the project
areas, but would provide a foundation upon which to build further increases
through future improvements in inputs and supportiag services.
7.04      At full agricultural development the value of rice and jute
exports due to the project would amount to some US$15-18 million, depending
on whether jute or HYV paddy is grown as a dry season crop in Lower Burma.
There would also be some import savings from cotton production and increased
domestic consumption of groundnuts, pulses and vegetables. Assuming that
incremental fertilizer used in the project areas would have to be imported,
net. foreign exchange earnings would be US$13-16 million per year, in addi-
tion to import savings and domestic consumptioni benefits.
7.05      The introduction of double cropping throughout the project areas
and the higher yields due to irrigation would more than double the annual
demand for labor from about 12 million man-days presently to 24 million man-
days at full development, which would equal some 80% of the estimated avail-
able family labor supply. At full development, full employment of family
and seasonal hired labor would occur in three or four months, depending on
the cropping pattern, and severe underemployment in the dry season would be
much reduced.
VIII. AGREEMIENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreements on the following major points have been reached with the
Government:
(a) GOB would establish a separate account for the proceeds
of the sale of pumps and accessories provided under
the project, and that within two years from the date
of signing the credit agreement, GOB would use the
funds in this account to provide medium and long-term



25 -
credits to farmers, through credit institutions acceptable
to the Association (para 5.02);
(b)  MOC would supply adequate quantities of HSD, lubricant
and grease to its sale points in each township where
irrigation pumps would be sold under the project, and
these sale points would maintain rtmning stocks of HSD
sufficient to operate pumps in their areas of coverage
for at least 14 days (para 5.07);
(c)  Participating township cooperatives would purchase
HSD, lubricants and grease required for pumps under
their jurisdiction Lrom the MOC township sale points,
and participating village tract cooperatives would buy
through their township cooperatives the necessary
HSD to maintain a running stock for at least 14 days
for pumps in their jurisdication (para 5.08);
(d) the Union Bank of Burma would provide adequate credit
to the village tract cooperatives, through the township
cooperatives, to enable them to maintain the required
running stock of HSD (para 5.08); and
(e) GOB would provide ID with adequate and timely funds for
satisfactory operation and maintenance of works constructed
under the minor flood embankments sub-project (para 5.09).
8.02      A condition of credit effe;:tiveness would be that the Project
Committee had been established to direct and supervise the implementation
and monitor the benefits of the project (para 5.01).
8.03      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project is-suitable
for.an IDA credit of US$17 million under the usual IDA terms. The borrower
would be the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.
May 14, 1974



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Climatic Data
Annual
Jan   Feb   Mar   APr   May   Jun   Jul        Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec    Avea
Monthly Temperature OF
Maubin (Delta Area)
Maximum                     86.6  84.9 96.8   98.3 93.9   87.7 85.7 85.2 86.5    86.5  88.2 85.9
Minimum                     62.5 62.1 67.2    74.8  76.2  76.4  75.8  75.4  76.0  75.4 72.0 65.6
Mean                        74.6  76.0  82.0  86.6  85.1  82.1  80.8  80.3 81.3 82.3   80.1  75.7     80.6
Mandalay (Upper Buxma)
Maximum                     83.6  89.5  96.4 1014 98.3 92.8 93.4 91.9     91.5  89.3 89.5   81.9
Minimum                     55.9  59.5 6?s.7  77.0  78.4 78.0   78.8  77.9  77.0  74.7 66.6 58.5
Mean                        70.0  74.5  82.1 89.2   87.7 8)4.8 82.3 86.2 84.2 82.3     76.6 69.8      80.8
Average Monthly Rainfall - in
Maubin (56 years)               0.12 0.23 0.28 1.65 11.15 17.94 21.68 19.76 13.22 6.49 2.63      o.54.   96l14
Mandalay (51 years)             0.03  0.19  0.21 1.43   5.88 5.93 2.84 l4.03 5.81 5.01     2.52 0.43     34h31
Average Humidity - percent
Maubin                          68    62    59    58    75    87    88   89    88    83    77    73       76
Mandalay                        62    50    39    40   60     70   70    76    77    78    76    73       64
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, Irrigation Departament, Rangoon.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Agricul ture
General
1.        Rice is by far the nost important crop in the Irrawaddy Delta of
Lower Burma. On the higher ground along the river banks, paddy can be
transplanted in July or early August after flooding. Unfortl:unately, these
areas are limited in size and largely occupied by villages, gardens and
fruit trees. In the lower interiors of the numerous deltaic islands, flood
water recedes much later, which requires use of long stemmed, low-yielding
local varieties. In addition, the rice vegetative period lasts after the
monsoon season and shortage of water during the grain farming stage also
contributes to low yields (1,000-1,600 lb/ac, depending on location).
2.        The combination of poor drainage, which prevents the early
transplanting of short stemmed varieties, and the lack of irrigation facilities
makes it difficult to grow a second crop during the dry season. Double
cropping is presently practiced on only about 5% of the cultivated land.
Double cropping without irrigation is only possible if short duration (145
days or less) varieties are used, but these varieties must be transplanted
by early August. This is impossible in many areas because of flooding, so
mainly local medium to long duration (150-200 days), low yielding varieties
which are tolerant to flooding or late transplanting are grown. Since these
varieties are harvested mainly in December, it is not possible to have a
second crop such as pulses or groundnuts, which need to be sown in November
if they are to grow on residual soil moisture. On higher ground, early
transplanted short duration varieties can be followed by a second crop
planted without irrigation in November.  If irrigation is available, jute
or HYV paddy can be cultivated as dry season crops, sown in January or
February and harvested in May and June.
3.        In the project areas of Upper Burma, paddy is also the most impor-
tant crop. Much lower rainfall spread less evenly throughout thle monsoon
leads to lower yields than in the Delta (average 1,000-1,200 lb/ac). Without
irrigation only one crop during the wet season 'is possible. With irrigation,
a second dry season crop can be grown, mainly medium staple cotton. This
is sown in late February and harvested in July, when rainfall is usually
very low (Annex 1).  Short staple cotton can also be grown during the wet
season instead of paddy. With irrigation, groundnuts and pulses can be
grown from December to March.
Rice
4.        Varieties.  Local varieties are generally of the indica type.  Over
one thousand named varieties are found in Burma, but many vernacular names



ANNEX 2
Page 2
apply to the same variety grown in different localities. All important
varieties are broadly classified by cultivators into four types--kaukyin or
early varieties with a growing period of 140-150 days and ripening in the
middle or end of October; kauklat or medium varieties with a growing period
of 150-170 days and ripening in the middle or end of November; kaukkyi or
late varieties with a growing period of 170-200 days and ripening in early
December; and Layin or spring varieties wlth a growing period of 140-150 days,
planted in and around marshes in November and harvested in March.
5.        All of the areas to be protected by minor embankments and 95% of
the areas to receive small pump irrigation in Lower Burma are sown to local
varieties. AL3cut half of these are local improved varieties multiplied by
AC seed farms (Annex 3). In Irrawaddy Division, kauklat varieties are most
widespread covering.58% of the area. Kaukkyi varieties represent 34% and
kaukyin varieties, which are grown primarily as early paddy to provide food
before harvest of the main crop, only 8%. hYV are presently grown on only
about 5% of the areas which already have flood protection. The most :impor-
tant variety is IR-5 (145 days), with some C4-63 (130 days). Other varieties
which have recently been tried include IR-20 and IR-22 (120-130 days), which
have good eating quality but lower yields than IR-5, and IR-24 (120 days),
which has poor cooking quality. Present yields of these HYV in farmers'
fields average around 2,500 lb/ac. Research stations routinely achieve yields
of 4,400 lb/ac with the same varieties under controlled conditions. With
irrigation and increased use of fertilizers, yields of 3,000 lb/ac in the
wet season and even more in the dry season would not be difficult to achieve.
6.        In the project areas of Upper Burma, kauklat varieties also pre-
dominate (50-60%). Kaukkyi varieties are less prevalent (15%) than in Lower
Burma because of water scarcity, while kaukyin varieties are more common
(30%) for the same reason. About 10% of the irrigated areas of Upper Burma
are sown to HYV. C4-63 is the most widely accepted variety, followed by
IR-5. IR-22 has also been introduced recently.
7.        For milling and marketing purposes, five types of rice are distin-
guished based on the physical characteristics of the grain. Ngasein grains
are short, broad, i,airly translucent, often with white belly. This group
is the most common and comprises the largest number of varieties, mills
fairly well and is the most widely grown type in Lower Burma. It also
constitutes most exports. The Midon group is next most common. The grain
is softer and more chalky than Ngasein, bLt because of its short, plump,
round shape, its milling quality is high. It is popular for home consumption
and has a higher domestic price than Ngasein. The highest value Midonr
variety is called "Ngakywe". The grain of the Emata group is long and
slender and therefore breaks easily on milling. But it is also h5ard and
translucent so that a more attractive rice emerges after high polish. It
has good potential as a high value export if milling can be improved
(inex 14). Letywezin varieties lie between Emata and Ngasein types in
a Z-pearance, character and milling quality. They are widespread throughout
tfke country and comprise the bulk of both irrigated and rainfed varieties
in Upper Burma. Byat varieties are grown in small patches and are very
popular for domestic consumption. The grain is large, broad, soft and
chalky. In addition to these five types, all of which are involved in export



ANNEX 2
Page 3
trade, there is a highly glutinous 'Kaukhnyin" variety produced solely for
the domestic market. Most Ngasein, Midon and Byat groups are the long
duration Kaukkyi varieties, while Emata and Letywezin groups are mostly
kauklat with some kaukyin. Of the HYV, IR-5 is classified as Ngasein while
C4-63 is in the Emata group.
8.        Cultural Practices.  Paddy cultivation in Lower and Upper Burma
is similar. The implements used are all very simple and resemble those
used in other paddy growing countries in Asia. The main implements are
the plow, the harrow and the rotary harrow. All are light enough to be
pulled by a pair of bullocks or buffaloes. It is generally considered that
a pair of draft animals can work 8-10 ac per year. 'The Burmese plow consists
of a curved wooden share, tipped with iron, with handles and a pole for
attachment to a yoke. The harrow is a wooden log five to six feet long with
three to seven wooden teeth, a cross-bar for pushing the harrow into the
ground or for lifting it to free it from weeds, and two poles for attachment
to a yoke. The rotary harrow is used to break up clumps of soil and to cut
and bury weeds.
9.        In April, bunds between fields are repaired. Cultivation begins
in mid-May with the rains. Nurseries are prepared first on about 1/10 to
1/15 of the area to be worked. General practice is to plow nurseries once
and harrow repeatedly to assure a good, uniform, fine mud seedbed. Pre-
germinated seed is generally used and is broadcast uniformly at a rate of
about 50 lb/ac. After a few days the nurseries are progressively flooded.
Seedlings are transplanted after four to six weeks when they are 18-24
inches tall.
10.       While the seedlings are developing in the nursery, farmers prepare
land for transplanting. The main fields are plowed and harrowed in the
same manner as the nursery, though usually less thoroughly. Puddling is
fairly common, particularly in subsistence areas.
11.       Transplanting takes place from the middle of July to the end of
August or later in low-lying flooded areas. Seedlings are pulled and
carried from the nurseries by men, but most transplanting is done by women
and girls. Seedlings are usually planted in groups of two to four spaced
about four to eight inches apart, with the wider spacing on better soils.
Seedlings are occasionally damaged by late floods and have to be replanted,
When floods recede too late to raise enough seedlings in time or where soil
is poor, the seed is broadcast. Broadcasting to avoid flood damage is
more common in the minor embankments sub-project areas than in the higher
levee areas to be irrigated by small pu'mps.
12.       Farm yard manure is normally spread before the monsoon crop, but
very little is used. The 60,000 tons of chemical fertilizers used for
paddy in 1973 was almost twice the amount used in 1970. This irncrease was
due mainly to the increased area sown to HYV, which rose from 35 ,000 ac
to about 500,000 ac countrywide over the same period. Fertilizers, are
applied in the nursery before seeding, and in the field after land prepara-
tion and, for HYV, again after first weeding. Applications are around



ANX 2
Page 4
20-30 lb/ac of urea for local varieties when chemical fertilizers are used
and 80 lb/ac of urea and 40 lb/ac of TSP for HYV.
13.       The Lirst w       is usually done two to four weeks after trans-
planting and the second weeding four to eight weeks later. Weeds are usually
removed by hand by women. Herbicides are not presently used by Burmese
farmers.
14.       Plant protection is not widely practiced; in 1973 only about 2%
of the area sown to paddy was treated with chemical pesticides. For paddy,
the rice hispa beetle (Dicladispa armigera), mostly found in Lower Burma, the
stem borer (Tryporyza incertulas) whose caterpillars become active during
the hot season (March), the rice army worm (Spodoptera mauritia), the rice
leaf roller (Nymphula depunctalis) and the ear-cutting caterpy4l1ar or
climbing worm (Mythimna separata) are ':he most common insect pests.
15.       The hispa, rice army worm and leaf roller usually appear in the
early part of the season in the nurseries or newly transplanted fields,
but the damaged plants usually recover. The hispa usually does the most
damage to fields transplanted late in the season. The damage done by the
stem borer and the ear-cutting caterpillar appears when the crop ripens,
but damage is usually slight. Two types of crabs occur in the paddy fields.
The marine crab in Lower Burma migrates towards the sea in July and its pre-
sence until then delays sowing. The land crab in Upper Burma damages bunds
and nurseries. Rats sometimes damage the crop before harvest. Diseases
such as bunt (usually in Lower Burma) and false smut break out occassionally,
but their incidence seems small,  Two common insect pests of stored grain
are the rice weevil (Sitophilus dryzae), which attacks rice, particularly
during the rainy season, and the caterpillar of the Angoumois grain moth
(Sitotroga cereallela), which attacks paddy.
16.       Harvesting is concentrated in December.  Reaping is done by hand
using a small sickle with a finely serrated edge, and is very labor inten-
sive. About a foot of straw is removed with the grain, tied in bundles
and left to dry for about a week in the fields. The bundles are then tied
into -.heaves and carted to the threshing floor, a leveled area plastered
J17ith - md and cattle dung, either in the fields or just outside the village.
T-re'shitng is by cattle going round a central stake, treading out the grain.
.tor winnowing a man stands on a tripod bamboo platform about eight fe"t hi&l
ind dropv the threshed paddy to the floor, while the wind blows away the
.-hff -1%iJs;t, Nys,ht grains and straw, leaving a fairly cleau heap of psdy.
V   hil   and wininoving are usually carried out in January and February.
Jute
17.       Jute is a recently important crop in Burma, having increased from
less than 5,000 tons in 1962 to 90,000 tons in 1973. This increase has been
mainly pre-monsoon jute grown under small pump irrigation in the Irrawaddy
Delta, along the banks of river channels. Land preparation in Janua-ry with
draft animals is difficult because the fields are baked to a hard clay.
Pre--irrigation is usually practiced. Tractors rented from AMD (Annex 10) or



AIM X 2
Page 5
owned by cooperatives or groups of farmers are used when available, but
draft animals are more common. Jute is usually sown in February or March
after one irrigation. Seeds and fertilizer are supplied by AC. Four vari-
eties of Corchorus capsularis are grown--three of 120 days duration with
yields of 700-900 lb/ac and a late variety Guyana type of 120-150 days
duration with yield averaging 1,100 lb/ac. Research is in progress on shorter
duration (120-125 days) hybrids with yie'lds around 1,000 lb/ac, and average
yields are expected to increase over the next five or six years to around
1,000 lb/ac, comparable to those achieved in Bangladesh and Tlhailand.
Nitrogen fertilizer levels should also be increased from around 50 to 100 lb
of urea per ac to improve yields. Pests and diseases are presently of
little importance but could become a problem with developmenLt of the cultivated
area. Labor requirements for harvesting and retting from June through
September axe high. After cutting to clear the fields for paddy, jute is
frequently left in bundles for retting after land preparation and transplanting
are finished. Monsoon jute sown in April/May and harvested in September/October
has lower yields and does not permit paddy to be grown on the same land.
Cotton
18.       Seed cotton production increased from about 20,000 tons pre-war to
67,000 tons in 1965, declined to about half that amount in 1970 and has
gradually recovered under Government encouragement to reach 44,000 tons in
19730 Seeds, fertilizers and insecticides are supplied by AC through the
primary cooperatives. About half the production is medium staple (4-1/16
inch), mostly Stoneville, an American upland variety sown in February and
harvested in July. Dry season cotton is grown in Upper Burma -in limited
areas supplied by gravity or pump irrigation. About 50 lb of urea per ac and
some TSP are used. Insecticides are sprayed three to five times against
jassids and bollworms. Yields are presently very low--about 400 lb of seed
cotton per ac. Reasons for these low yields include poor land preparation,
inadequate sowing rate, drought during early plant growth stages, excessive
rain during late growth stages which ciiuses boll rot, lack of drainage in some
gravity irrigated areas, and insufficient pest control. The losses caused
by unfavorable weather condf tions could be corrected or alleviated by
irrigation, proper time of planting and development of short season varieties.
Pests could be better controlled by an improved surveillance program to
determine the best time to apply treatments, and better chemical control
methods. Yields could be increased by fertilizer treatment when there is
ample soil moisture.
19.       Cotton competes with other cash crops such as chillies and onions
whose prices are not controlled, while the official prices which AC pays
for cotton (Annex 14) give farmers relatively low returns (less than K 200/ac
for medium staple cotton compared with over K 400/ac for groundnuts, K 500/ac
for pulses and K 3,000/ac for vegetables. See Annex 15, Table 10). GOB needs
to tlook at ways to improve incentives to grow cotton, as well as improving
extension services for land preparation, weedinig, irrigation, pest control
and rotation with other crops such as groundnuts and pulses (Annex 3).



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Groundnuts
20.       Groundnuts and sesamun are the main source-s of edible oils in
the country and are therefore of malor ifmortance for the domestic market.
Production of unshelled groundnuts in 1973 was about 385,000 tons-a
reduction of 20% from the 1972 level because of the 1972 drought. In Lower
3uraa groundnuts are grown afcer paddy oni lighter soils using residual soil
moisture. Varieties are usually the erect Spanish type such as SP 121 and
some new varieties such as Erecta. Yields of unsheiled girounduts, around
700 lb/ac, are low because of lack of water, insufficient varietal research
and shortage of inputs.  Seventy percent of gromndnut production takes
place in Upper Burma, in Mandalay, Magwe and Sagaing Divisions. Cultivation
is mainly during the wet season with spreading varieties. Yields are
similar to those in Lower Burma, though some new, higher yielding varieties
such as Magwe 10 are available. In both Lower and Upper Burma, better
cultural practices, irrigation and use of available improved varieties and
nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers would lead to immediate yield improve-
ment. Yield losses can also be prevented by control of the leaf roller
insect.
Pulses
21.       Various pulses are grown throughout the country, both for domestic
consumption and export. Production in 1973 was around 300,000 tons. As
with groundnuts, there are two types of cultivation--monsoon cultivation
mostly in Upper Burma where only one crop can be grown, and dry season
cultivation in Lower Burma where a large variety of beans and peas i.re grown
on alluvial soils after paddy, in competition with groundnuts for land use.
Mungbeans are, sometimes broadcast in paddy fields after they dry out, before
the paddy matures. Yields with present cultural practices are low--around
500 lb/ac in Upper Burma and 600 lb/ac in Lower Burma. Better land prepara-
tion together with irrigation and the use of fertilizers would lead to
rapid improvement.
Vtgetables
22.       Vegetable production accounts for less than 1% of soan area and
production, but has been increasing rapidly in recent years, especially onions
and garlic. Yields of these two crops have also been increasing at about
4% per year. About 30 lb of both urea and TSP are used per ac and yields
for all vegetables (most,y chillies, onions and garlic) average around
3,000 lb/ac. With irrigation and increased fertilizer applications, higher
yields could easily be achieved.
Agicltural-Taxat-ion
23.       Burma has a good legal and administrative framework for imple-
menting an effective land revenue and water charge system. The main problem
with the system is that it was set up before independence and the prevailing
rates, Ticich were fixed between 30 and 60 years ago, were never revised.
What were originally substantial taxes on agricultural production have been
largely eroded by inflatLon over the years.



A4NEX 2
Page 7
24.       The basic taxing vehicle is the Consolidated Land Revenue.  Rates
were fixed by the Settlement and Land Records Department of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests (MAF). Assessments vary between K 2 and K 10 per ac,
based on a fraction of net value of productiorn at the time the rates were
fixed, usual.ly between 1/8 and 1/3. Rates were determined mainly on the
basis of soil classification and crop type, anid secondarily on considera-
tions such as standard of living and size of land holding, stability of
production and prices, the desirability of encouraging production of certain
crops, and the rates already in effect in neighboring areas. The tax is
mildly progressive, since the fraction of net production assessed is gen-
erally higher on more productive irrigated and protected lands than on
unirrigated and unprotected areas.
25.       Collection is the responsibility of the Internal Revenue Depart-
ment of the Ministry of Planning and Finance. In the case of irrigated I
areas, part (generally half in Lower Burma and three-fourths in Upper Burma)
of the Consolidated Land Revenue is credited on the books to ID. No similar
credit is made in the case of lands protected by embankments without irriga-
tion. Despite this book credit, however, all collections actually accrue
to general revenues of the Union Government Consolidated Fund aind no funds
are specifically earmarked for use by ID.
26.       Since 1948, actual taxation of agricultural production has been
effected through a system of Government control of producer prices, which
have been kept very low on the major crops, particularly paddy. This system
was adopted in part to replace the Consolidated Land Revenue which had
eroded to insignificance and in part to direct the windfall profits which
resulted from the abolition of agricultural rents under the Land National-
ization Act of 1948 to the Government and not to individual cultivators.
This implicit "tax" appears to have amounted to between 50 and 75%, of the
value of the paddy crop from its inception to today, and accounts for a
similar percentage at present for jute and cotton (Annex 14).



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Agricultural. Supporting Services
General
1.        A number of Government agencies are involved with the provision
of agricultural supporting services. However, the Agricultural Corporation
(AC) has primary responsibility for providing research, extension, farm
inputs, producing and distributing seed, approving applications to purchase
farm machinery and for recording land use throughout the country. As a
separate unit under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF), AC is
headed by a Managing Director and has extension officers at division,
township, village tract and village levels.
Research and Seed Production
2.        Crop research is conducted by AC and the Irrigation Department
(ID) under MAF and by the Institute of Agriculture at Mandalay under the
Ministry of Education. The Research Division of AC with headquarters
at Gyogon near Rangoon is headed by a General Manager responsible for both
basic and applied research. Basic research is carried out at the Agricul-
tural Research Institute (ARI), which is in process of being moved from
Gyogon to Yezin, about 225 miles north of Rangoon near Pyinmana. ARI has
an administrative division and six research divisions covering agronomy,
botany, entomology, plant pathology, soil physics and chemistry. The ART
research program at Yezin will be strengthened by a UNDP research project
beginning in 1974 for 54 months. Under the project, research on rice,
cotton and pulseo will include breeding and cultural practices. New Fiber
Crops and Pulses Divisions will be set up. The project will also include
soils research and training components.
3.        Applied research is carried out and seed is produced at 16 Central
Experiment Stations located around the country and 59 Seed Multiplication
Farms. The central experiment stations deal mainly with selection of crops
suited to local ecological conditions, agricultural techniques, fertilizer
doses and formulations. They also produce foundation seed for all principal
crops and distribute it to the seed farms for multiplication. The seed
farms produce registered seed for distribution to approved private seed
growers. The private growers produce "quality" (non-certified) seed under
AC supervision which is sold to farmers for general planting. When the
experiment stations produce more seed than is required for planting on the
seed farms, the surplus is distributed to the private growers directly.
Basically the system is satisfactory, but. because of a shortage of trained
staff and poor facilities the amount of high quality seed is inadequate.
Enough land is available at the central experiment stations and the seed



ANNEX 3
Page 2
farms to produce an adequate supply of foundation and registered seed to
meet minimim requirements. In order to produce enough certified seed,
however, the area devoted to its production must be substantially increased
and a properly supervised program to produce certified seed, introduced.
Additional personnel, equipment and facilities must also be provided at
all levels.
4.        Crop research is conducted by ID at thLee experiment stations
which were set up as UNDP ,projects under direction of an FAO expert. These
programs have been continued since the end of the UNDP project by ID
personnel. The stations are located at Gwegon (Mu Valley Project), Kadok
and Me-Aung-Kan (both Sittang Valley Project).
5.        The agronomy, botany, entomology and plant pathology departments
at the Insttiute of Agriculture also conduct a small amount of crop research,
with limited field and laboratory facilities. The Institute will be moved
to Yezin where it will be consolidated with other institutes under the
Ministry of Education to formr the Instiute of Agriculture, Veterinary
Science and Forestry. The new Institute will be adjacent to ARI, which
should improve cooperation between these two organizations.
Extension and Inputs
6.        The extension service is organized at five levels. At the
national level in Rangoon, the Managing Director of AC is assisted by two
Chief Extension Officers--one for staff and the other for supplies and
services. Under these are nine Divisional Agricultural Officers who
actually direct the field work. Each township has one or two Township
Extension. Managers who supervise 5 or 6 Village Tract Managers, each
responsible for providing extension and farm inputs for five or six villages.
Finally the Village Managers are in direct contact with the farmers, usually
600-700 farm families per village manager.
8.        All field officers are members of their respective Security and
Administrative Committees (SAC), which are the basic political and adminis-
trative units in Burma.  SAC's exist at national, divisional, township and
village tract level. They are chaired by Government appointees and include
representatives from the Burmese Socialist Program Party, Workers and
Peasants. 1/ The extension officers report to their local SAC chairmen as
well as their AC superiors. Village managers are also mebiiers of their local
Peasant Councils, and work through these Councils to advise farmers in the
use of improved seeds, fertilizers and cultural practices. Village managers
help draw up the agricultural plan for each village (which covers choice
of crops and land use), assist cooperatives in handling inputs and direct
plant protection measures. Village tract and township managers and their
respective SAC's must approve all applications from cooperatives or groups
1/   Under the new Constitution of January 4, 1974, the SAC's are to be
replaced by elective bodies. It is expected that these new organizations
would have representation and functions similar to the SAC's.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
of farmers to buy farm machinery be:lore passing them on to AMD. Tmwnship
managers supervise the major AC seedt farms while village tract managers
supervise production of "quality" seeds by private growers
9.        AC is directly responsible for promoting cotton and jute. Village
tract managers supply the necessary inputs--seeds, fertilizers and in-
seticides--to primary, village tract cooperatives. Village managers
advise farmers in the use of inputs and cultural practices.  In the project
areas of Upper Burma, the number of village managers would be increased
(para 12) to satisfy the greater extension needs for cotton. They would
concentrate on better land preparation, weeding, irrigation and timely
spraying, as well as instituting a three-year rotation with paddy, pulses
and oilseeds to reduce pest incidence and aid soil fertility. In Lower
Burma, village managers would stress more skillful and controlled preparation
of jute fiber so it can be exported as higher grade. AC woald provide
village managers in the Lower Burma project areas with special training
in jute cultivation and grading.
10.       All township managers are university graduates. Village managers
are high school graduates trained for ten months at the central experiment
stations. They may also be selected from among graduates of the Institutes
of Agriculture or the University. Nine central experimentL station conduct
one-month refresher courses for extension officers; each can handle 15
officers at a time. In addition, yotng farmers are selected by their local
peasant councils for six-month training courses at three central experiment
stations. Training covers land preparation, use of fertilizers and selected
seeds and farmer organization. Graduates of the program become "model
farmers" to assist the village managers--about one for every 400-500 farm
families.
11.       Farm inputs are delivered to township and village tract cooperative
stores and are sold to farmers for cash. Production credit is provided
through a variety of advance purchase schemes and the system is currently
being revised (para 15-16). The major increased requirement for inputs
under the project would be for fertilizers. About 14,000 more tons of
urea and TSP would be used with the project at full development thaan
without it. Burma has two urea factories whose combined output of about
110,000 tons annually is now fully committed.  It is therefore assumed
that incremental urea requirements would be imported. All TSP is already
imported. Internal transportation, distribution and local storage facilities
would be adequate to handle this incremental requiremnent.
12.       For the project areas, the Division Extension Officers would be
responsible for extension and inputs. There are at present about 70
village managers in the project areas in Lower Burma and seven in Upper
Burma. A general program to increase the number of village managers is now
in progress. By 1980 GOB intends to have some 115 village managers in the
project areas in Lower Burma (one for 500 families) and 14 in Upper Burma
(one for 400 families), with the higher density in Upper Burma due to the
greater extension needs for cotton. The intended coverage would be adequate
to implement the project improvements. All village managers in the small



ANNEX 3
Palae 4
pump sub-project areas would be given special instruction in pump irrigation
at AC's central experiment stations and AID's tractor stations. Farmers
would in turn receive advice on better use of pumps and water, HYV, fertil-
izers and pesticides.
13.       Before World War II, agricultural credit was primarily in the
hands of Chettyars (private money lenders from South India). They provided
the bulk of the credit to commercial rice producers in Lower Burma, using
paddy land as security. When world rice prices fell sharply during the
Depression, the debt burden on cultivators rose, foreclosures mounted and
Chettyar holdings of paddy land rose to between 2 and 3 million ac, nearly
half the rice area of the Delta. Since independence in 1948, most of the
Chettyars have been driven from the country and private money lending has
been prohibited.
14.       Until 1953, GOB advanced small loans to rural cooperatives for
on-lending to farmers. These were mostly seasonal loans but included
some medium-term loans for cattle purchase. Where there were no cooperatives,
GOB advanced credit to farmers through village land committees. The State
Agricultural Bank was set up in 1953 and until 1958 it provided credit
through the cooperatives and initiated a program for setting up Village
Banks, one for each village tract. In 1958 financing througlh the cooperatives
was stopped and all funds were channelled through the Village Banks.
The State Agricultural Bank was merged into the People's Bank (the country's
only financial institution, now Union of Burma Bank-UBB) in 1970, and its
functions were handed over to the Agricultural Finance Division of UBB.
Although repayments through this system averaged around 75%, in 1972 new
loans through the Village Banks were stopped, and their only function
became that of recovering oustanding loans.
15.       Rural credit is now provided almost exclusively through advance
purchase of paddy by cooperatives. Beginning in April 1973, farmers were
invirted to enter into contracts with the cooperatives to deliver certain
amounts of paddy, based on historical production less consumption require-
mients for food and seed, at official producer prices. The system was not
compulsory, but rice sales outside the township of origin were at that
time prohibited and there was no other legal form of credit, so GOB expected
participation to be widespread. The advance would amount to 40% of the
value of the crop before land prepration, 15% at transplanting and 15%
before harvest, with the remairiing 30% to be paid on delivery. The poor
1972/73 harvest, however, led to shortages and marketing problems in early
1973 and the rice market was decontrolled in May. Consequently very few
advance purchase contracts were entered into for the 1974 crop. Rather, a
new compulsory quota system was instituted on November 1, 1973, whereby
farmers must deliver specified minimum quantities of paddy to cooperatives
at official prices (which were increased by about 40% at the same time)
by March 1, 1974.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
16.       GOB is now planning to reconvert the Agricultural Finance
Division of UBB into a new State Agricultural Bank which will make loans
for development purposes through reactivated Village Banks. It is not
clear what role the advance purchase scheme for paddy would play under
this revised system. In addition, t.p to 1973 AC provided credit in, kind for
seeds, fertilizers and pesticides to producers of jute, cotton and other
crops. The repayment rate was very poor. As a result, in 1973 AC also
instituted various advance purchase schemes based on either acreage or the
value of the crop, and provided cash against contracts for future delivery.
Farmers were then to use the cash to buy inputs from the cooperatives, but
the system was only loosely controlled and much of this credit undoubtedly
was used for consumption. There is a definite need to amalgamate the
various credit schemes under a unified system which will provide better
and more productive credit services, particularly for small farmers. GOB
is aware of this need and its effort r -o remedy the situation through the
proposed revised rural credit system is a promising step in the right
direction.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Project Works
Small Pump Irrigation
1.        Pumps and Accessories.  Altogether 10,000 pump sets with 4 in
delivery outlet would be procured. Of this number, 9,000 low-lift pumps
would be sold to groups of farmers and cooperatives in the Irrawaddy Delta
in Lower Burma and 1,000 high lift pumps would be sold in Upper Burma.
The particulars of these pump sets would be:
(a) 9,000 sets of 4 in centrifugal, low lift (maximum 30 ft)
pump, directly coupled to diesel engine of about 5 hp. The
set would be skid mounted and would have an output of about
300 imperial gpm (0.8 cusec or 23 1/sec). Each set would
be provided with suction hose, foot valve, standard tools
and two 4 gal plastic cans for fuel;
(b) 1,000 sets of 4 in, high lift (maximum 60 ft) pump,
directly coupled to diesel engine of 8-10 hp. The set
would be skid mounted and would have an output of about
230 imperial gpm (0.61 cusec or 17 1/sec). Each set
would be provided with suction hose, valve, standard tools
and two 4 gal plastic cans for fuel.
2.        Each pump would be supplied with 150 ft of 4 in vinyl rubber
delivery hose which would be procured as a separate item. Spare delivery
hose for five years replacement, estimated to be about three million ft,
and spare parts for the 10,000 pumps and diesel engines amoumting to about
25% of the cost of the pump sets would be procured under the project.
3.        Workshop equipment and tools to equip five major repair and service
stations for pumps would also be procured and installed at existing tractor
stations. These stations would be at Henzada, Myaungmya, Wakpma and Maubin
in Lower Burma and in Mandalay Division in Upper Burma. They would provide back-up
maintenance and regular repair services as well as major repair and overhaul
of pump sets.  The other 10 tractor stations in the project areas in Lower Burma
and 27 stations in the project areas in Upper Burma (Annex 10) would
carry out regular maintenance and repair. They would accept pumps which
need major repair and overhaul and forward them to the five major repair
stations for carrying out the work..
4.        Four jute baling plants would be established under the project
in the Irrawaddy Delta. The sites for these plants, within the jute
producing areas, would be selected by AC. Each plant would be provided
with a river landing, baling building, grading sheds, godowns, staff houses,



AINE 4
Page 2
internal roads, fences etc. Small gauge rails and flat bottom wagons for
carrying raw and baled jute between the go donAs and the river landings
would be included. The four baling presses would be of screw type, electric
motor driven, with three step range gear and loading capacity of up to 300
tons. Each press would have an output capacity of 10 bales per hour or
23 tons per day (two 8 hr shifts). Each plant would also be provided with
its own 80 kw diesel generator complete with switchboard and transformer,
for running the press and for internal use within the plant and its compound.
5.        At present there are 13 baling presses -  in the country with a
total capacity of 118,000 tons per year. Estimated jute production for
1973174 is 100,000 tons. Hence, there is presently an excess capacity
of about 18,000 tons. The increased production of jute as a result of
this project is expected to be 37,000 tons. Present excess capacity plus
the capacity of the proposed four new jute baling plants would be 46,000
tons, which would be adequate to cope with the expected increased jute
production resulting from the project and still leave enough additional
capacity (9,000 tons) to take care of incremental production from outside
the project areas.
Minor Flood Embankment
6.        Dhantape Drain and Embankment. A large tract of farmland in Hmawbi
township, 20 mi north of Rangoon is flooded every year, causing damage to
crops. The existing Dhantape drain, which serves this area and is presently
badly c'ogged, would be desilted, as well as widened where necessary.
The meandering channel would be straightened at several places in order
to accommodate a larger flow. The maximum cross section of the final drain
would be about 60 ft wide and 11 ft deep, where it drains into the HIlaing
(Rangoon) River. A reinforced concrete sluice with discharge capacity
of about 2,200 cusec would be constructed at its mouth. The sluice would
be fitted with flap gates which would close automatically when the water
level downstream of the sluice in the Hlaing River is higher than the water
level inside the protected area. The final length of the drain would be
about 5 mi. The embankment (4 ml) protecting the area would be rehabilitated.
The total volume of earthwork for both the drain and the embankment would
be about 200,000 cu yd. The area to be benLefitted by this work would be
about 7,000 ac, of which 900 ac are presently uncultivated because of
floods.
7.        Kattiya-TaSyndaing Embankment. The area along the left bank of
Kattiya Yegyaw River is flooded every year during the monsoon season. At
present there is no flood embankment to protect this land and crops are
damaged every year. The proposed embankment would be 1Q v long with an
1/   These are: four in Rangoon, three at 23 ton/day and one at 47 ton/day;
two in Myaungmya at 23 ton/day; one each in Maubin, Kyonpyaw, prome,
Tharawaddy, Toungoo and Bassein at 23 ton/day; and one in Wakema of
97 ton/day. The total capacity of these presses is 397 ton/day. The
annual capacity is 397 x 300 days = 119,100 tons.



JANNEX 4
Page 3
average height of about 8 ft, including 2 ft free board.   The embankment
would have a crest width of 8 ft, 2:1 to 3:1 upstream slope and 2:1 to 4:1
downstream slope. It is envisaged that the embankment would close all the
small drains in the area. The total volume of earthwork would be about
375,000 cu yd. The area to be protected against floods would be about
3,600 ac.
8.        Kaleik-Tawkanoot Embankment.   The existing embankment, 4 mi long,
was constructed in 1958 to prevent flood water from the Kyonpadok River
from spilling over and flooding the area lying on the right bank of the
river.  It is in very poor condition.   The project works would include
rehabilitation and improvement of the existing embankment and the construc-
tion of a new one as extension to the rehabilitated embankment. The new
embankment would be 8 mi long along the Kyonpadok River. Its average
height would be 4-5 ft including 2 ft free board. Its crest width would be
8 ft and its upstream and downstream slopes 2:1. The embankment would
close all small drains but would leave open two major drains, namely Kala
Chaung and Taungthabyu Chaung for navigation. The total volume of earth-
work is estimated to be 160,000 cu yd. The embankment would benefit an area
of 8,000 ac.
9.        Kawe-Thandin Embankment.   The existing embankment, 3 mi long, was
constructed in 1959. The project works would include rehabilitation and
improvement of this embankment and the construction of a new embankment
21 mi long as extension to the rehabilitated embankment, to prevent flood
water from spilling over the bank of the Shwelaung River in the east and
the Kyonpadok River in the north and west.   The average height of the
embankment would be 7 ft including 2 ft free board, Its crest width would
be 8 ft, upstream slope 2:1 and downstream slope 2:1 to 2.5:1. It is
envisaged that the embankment would close all small drains and leave open
four major drains, namely Alaman, Kassage, Manadole and Chaung Kanna for
navigation. The total volume of earthwork would be 570,000 cu yd. The
area benefitted would be about 4,400 ac.
10.       Summary of the works involved and areas benefitted is as
follows:
Vol. of    Area
Name of Work         Rehab       New       Earthwork   Benefitted
(mi)      (mi)       (cu yd)       Zac
DUhan tape Drain & Evabankment
& Sluice                 5          -        200,000       7,000
Kat tiya-Tagundaing
Embankment               4         10        375,000       3,600
Kaleik-Tawkanoot
Embankment                4         8        160,000       8s,000
Kawe-Thandin Embankment     3         21        57G,000       4>400
Total                 16         39      1,305,000      2310



ANHEX 4
Page 4
Repair of Construction Equipment
11.       Altogether 932 pieces of broken-down construction equipment,
about half of which are earthmoving equipment (see Annex 8 for details),
would be repaired under the project. This equipment belongs to the
Irrigation Department (ID) and was broken down under normal operating
condition due to lack of spare parts. These 932 pieces were selected
from about 1,200 pieces of broken down equipment and they are equipment
manufactured by member countries of the Bank Group. They represent equip-
ment which can be economically repaired and still have enough years of
economic life left after the repair. Needed spare parts would be procured
directly from manufacturers of the equipment or their designated suppliers.
ID has 5everal large repair shops with modern equipment and experienced
mechanics and would repair the equipment itself. After the repair, the
equipment would be put to work mainly on four of ID's major on-going pro-
jects which have already suffered slow progress due to the shortage of
equipment and on maintenance of existing projects. These projects are:
(a) North Nawin Project. The project comprises an earth dam
115 ft high, 5,300 ft long with about 0.3 million ac ft
storage capacity and canal systems to irrigate 100,000 ac
for double cropping in Prome township. Total volu   of
earthwork is about 15 million cu yd and the project is
timaLated to cost K 150 million. The construction woik
began in 1967 and the project is scheduled to be completed
in 1977, if needed equipment is made available.
(b) Yezin Project. Yezin dam (earth) 110 ft high and 8,100 ft
long is located at Yezin village in Pyinmana township. The
dam and its canal systems will irrigate 16,000 ac. The
estimated project cost is K 25 million. Estimated volume
of earthwork is 4 million cu yd. Construction work began
in 1967 and is expected to be completed in 1976-77, provided
there is adequate number of earthmving equipment.
(c)  ChaungLayi-Dam Project. The dam (earth) 90 ft high and
11,000 ft long would provide additional supply to the
existing Nyaungyan-Minhla tank and irrigation water for
double cropping of an additional area of 10,000 ac. Total
earthwork is estimated at 3.6 million cu yd. The project
estimated to cost K 15 million was started in 1970
and would be completed in 1977, if provided with the
needed construction equipment.
(d) Yenatha Canal Project. The canal, 13 mi long, taking off
from Chaungmagyi River would irrigate 18,000 ac on the
right bank of Chaungmagyi River. The project has 5.4
million cu yd of earthwork and is estimated to cost K 10
million. Construction works began in 1968 and would be
completed in 1976-77.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Feasibility Studies
12.       The Mu River Irrigation project has been under consideration by
GOB since 1953. A feasibility report of the project was carried out with
assistance from UNDP by a consulting firm beginning in 1966. 1/ However,
because of the large size of the project, GOB has decided to ivestigate
the possibility of dividing it into two stages. The original report
needs to be reviewed in lignt of changes in Burmats and the worldwide
economic situation which have been taken place since it was done and
revised accordingly. To prepare a possible first stage project, additional
information and studies are needed on the appropriate level of rehabilita-
tion works, the need for additional distributany canals and drainage net-
works, the level of on-farm development works etc. GOB has requested FAO/
IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) to assist ID in preparing the project and
an identification report outlining the type and scope of additional studies
required has been prepared by the CP amd submitted to GOB. To implement
the additional studies CP would need the help of expert consultants in
such specialized fields as engineering geology, large dam design and
hydropower. Similarly, GOB would require the help of consultants to
prepare the feasibility report for an additional irrigation project,
which it w11l choose in consultation with the Association, from among
a number of already identified projects in various stages of investiga-
tions.
1/   The contract for the execution of the studies for this feasibility
report was awarded to Italconsult S.P.A. (Italy) on August 12, 1966.
The basic report is dated March 1970, supplemented in October 1972
and revised by a Note on Alternative Schemes in June 1973.



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1974                 1975                 1976                 1977
WORKS
YEAR 1               YEAR 2               YEAR 3               YEAR 4
SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION SUB-PROJECT
PREPARATION OF TENDER DOCUMENT                             ? X
ISSUING OF TENDER DOC.(O, RECEIPT AND
ANALYSIS OF BIDS(, & AWARD OF CONTRACT()                            500   500  1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000
ARRIVAL OF PUMPS AND ACCESSORIES IN RANGOON |l|
SALE OF PUMPS TO FARMERS                               2g    3) Q
E OF PP TARR. OF EQUIP. & TOOLS INSTALLATION
PROCUREMENT OF WORKSHOP EQUIP. & TOOLS                      ,1
PREP. OFI
JUTE BALING PLANTS:                             ERARRIVAL D                              R;             X
PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT & MATERIALS                                       ARRVA      A   -
PREPARATION          CONSTRUCTION OF PLANTS & INSTALL. OF EQUIP.
ESTABLISHMENT OF FOUR PLANTS                                                                              ______
MINOR FLOOD EMBANKMENT SUB-PROJECT                       QRV                    E   I
2   t   ARRIVAL OF EQUIP. & MATERIALS
PROCUREMENT OF EQUIP. & MATERIALS
CONSTRUCTION OF EMBANKMENTS                                                       -
REPAIR OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT                                      ARV      O    E
ARRIVAL OF SPARE PARTS
PROCUREMENT OF SPARE PARTS                                                                -
REPAIR OF EQUIPMENT                                                        -m
FEASIBILITY STUDIES
MU RIVER IRR. PROJECT                                       -
OTHER IRR. PROJECT
World Bank-8284(2R)



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Water Demand and Supply
Water Demand
1.        GOB regulations specify that small iri-igation pumps may be
sold only to cooperatives or groups of at least three farmers cultivating
at least 20 ac of farm land. Although available data indicate that each
pump presently in use in the Delta irrigates an area of about 23 ac 1/,
in practice it is common for groups of 4-5 farmers operating on the order
of 30-35 ac to buy pumps, or for groups with smaller aggregate holdings
to renit pumps to their neighbors part of the time. The reason for the
apparent discrepancy between the statistical averages and field observa-
tions is that many of the pumps presently in use are inoperable part of
the time due to lack of spare parts and repair facilities. Since this
project would include adequate spares and repair facilities, it is reasonable
to estimate that each pump in the Delta would command 30 ac and that each
pump would operate on an average of 25 days per month when irrigation is
required, for up to 12 hours per day in the peak month of October, while in
other months it would be operated only a few hours (Table 1). As
an average over the 270,000 ac commanded by 9,000 pumps, each pump would
provide supplementary irrigation for 29.4 ac of paddy during the wet season
and 9 ac of jute (Alternative I) or HYV paddy (Alternative II), 1.5 ac each
of groundnuts and pulses and 0.6 ac of vegetables in the dry season. The
average cropping intensity would be 140%, representing an increase of 33%
from the present rainfed conditions (105%).
2.        In Upper Burma rainfall is much lower and more erratic than in
the Delta, monsoon paddy requires more supplementary irrigation. Also,
the high lift pumps used in Upper Buirma would have a sm'aller discharge
(230 gpm) than the low lift pumps used in Lower Burma (300 gpm). There-
fore, each. pump would command an area of only 27 ac. On an average, each
pump would irrigate 8.1 ac each of cotton and of HYV paddy, 11.9 ac of
local paddy, 2.7 ac of groundnuts or oilseeds, 1.1 ac of pulses and 0.5 ac
of vegetables. Overall cropping intensity would average 120%, which
11                  No. of              Area          Area Per
Year      Serviceable Pumps     Irrigated (ac)    Pp   (ac)
1970/71             6,577             92,182            14
1971/72             7,410            154,552            21
1972/73            10,650            248,361            23
Source: MAD and Draft Report to the People, 1973/74 (Rangoon, Nov, 24, 1973).



ANNEX 6
Page 2
represents an increase in cropped area of about 40% from present zainfed
conditions (85%), and is considered realistic in an area where average annual
rainfall is only 30-35 in.
3.        Water requirements based on the above cropping patterns have
been calculated for Lower and Upper Burma zsing the modified Blaney-
Criddle formxla (Charts 8348 and .8349). Since dry season paddy requires
more water thL,ri Jute (see Gna-r 8348), the volume ofL irrigation water
required was computed based on Alternative 'LI or dry season HYV paddy
instead of jute. The water requirement calculations shaw that for both
Lower and Upper Burma, the maximum water demand would occur in October,
when paddy in the field (98% of the sub-project areas in Lower Burma and
74% in Upper Burma) would be in the grain 'Zorming stage after flowering,
which requires the most water. The total volume of water required in
October would be 172,000 ac ft for 9,000 pumps, or 19 ac ft per pump for
Lower Burma and 12,400 ac ft for 1,000 pups or 12.4 ac ft per pump for
Upper Burma.
4.        The number of pumping hours per day have been calculated for
each month, based on 25 pumping days per month, as shown in Table 1. The
maximum duration of pumping would be 12 hours per day for Lower Burma
and 10 hours per day for Upper Burma, both in October. The pumping time
is considerably less in other months (see Table 1).
Water Supply
5.        The amount of water to be pumped for irrigation is relatively
small compared with available flows in the rivers and channels.  Chart
8348 shows that during the lowest flow ontbh of arch. the pumpage of the
9,000 pumps in Lower Burma would amount to only 3.2% of the available
flow of the Irrawaddy River and its tributaries. Together with 1,000 pump
sets for Upper Burma and 10,000 pumps already existed in the Delta, the
total pumpage would become only about 6.9% of the average available low
flow in the Irrawaddy River system.



,ANNEX 6
Table I
BURM
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Small Pump Irrtg.ti.. Sqb-P-mJ..t
Esti-ated Water. Reeut-.met for 9,000 Pumps in Lo.er Burm
__                                Jan        Feb         or        Apr        MI         Jun         Jul       Aug        Sep        Oct        Nm         DeitoSy
I st Crap  L,n.m                                                                       m..Rgg,.   I*IS
Alera   ., {Pddy (IY .,2d Crop  N & LP                                                                                                                                   GO
Altr-vaiv  If hdy (IlYV), I v Crap  ----     --N & LP                                                                                                      H                     3
Paddy (lIllV), 2nd Crup                                                                                                                                            30
V'P.ddy (Local)    InI Crap                                                           N   LP                                                       H                      32
Kukl.t3
Li.raueduul       2nd Crop                       i      *      m                                                  ~
'nse     2d Crop                        _____LI'
N6 & LIP
E l'a,ddy aely (L.,al)                                                                                   p36
E    ( K.ukkyi)
H~LIP
__                                                                                                                                    140
Uni t                            N -  uor,LP        1.lad p-eparalimo, H =harvst, R = rutting (Jute)                                           Touta P-mp
a t  ranhin if                   aF      74.6       76.0       82 0      86.6       85.1       82.1        80.8       80.3       81.3       82.3       80.1       75.7
pfor le      N                             7.90      7.35       8.42       8.47       9.02       8.86        9.09      8.86       8.28       8.23       7.71       7.82
= t a p/SOS.                             5.89       5.59       6.90       7.34       7.68      7.27        7.34       7.11       6.73       6.77       6.18       5.92
kt = 0,0173t - 0.314                       0.977      1.001      1.lOS      1.184      1.118      1.106       1.084     1.075,     1.092      1.110      1.1372     0.9"'l
kr fr Jate                                 0.23       0.55       0.86       1.07       1.0',      0.75
hr fot Paddy (HYV)                                    0.79       1.09       1.32       0.51-                            0.80       1.12       1.30       0.44
hr fo. Paddy (braS    168 days)                                                                              0.56       0.98       1.25       1.20       0.14
kcr fo, rC.roudnut                         0.64       0.97       1.12       0.57                                                                             .      0.13
hr: fmr Pulses                             0.75       1.11       0.92       0.11                                                                                    0.14
kr for Paddy (local 180 days)                                                                                0.34       0.92       1.17       1.31       0.60
hr! for" Vegetables                        0.78       0.82       0.72       0.24                                                                         0.17       0.56
Uj Jte                                      1.32      3.08       6.56       9.30       9.25       6.03
U Paddy~ (NHW)                    in                  4.42       8.28      11.45       4.61                             6.11       8.21       9.75       2.90
UPaddy (l..cal 168 days)          in                                                                         4.46       7.49       9.19       9.02       2.25
U0 .roundnut                      in       3.71       5.43       8.58       4.92                                                                                    0.77
U Pulses                          in       4.30       6.20       7.04       1.32                                                                                    0.83
U Paddy, (loal1 180 days)         in                                                                          2.71      7.03       8.60       9.84       3.97
U Ve~getables,                    in       4.48       4.58       5.52       2.06                                                                         1.11       3.32
Alterna.tive! I
U Ju tei- Paddy + N & LP          In       4.32       3.08       6.56       9.30       9.25      3.02        8.00       6.11       8.21       9.75       2.90
E ffectI"e -ainfall (Mauhim)      in       0.11       0.21       0.25       1.40       6.70      8.70       10.84       9.88       7.28       4.87       2.10       0.49                  Ho-....
Net field irrigation req.         in        4.21      2. 87      6.31       7.90       2.55       0.00        0.00      0.00       0.93       4.88       1.71                   Jute       Paddy
Pumpin,g req. @ 607. lf,          in        7.02      4.78      10.52      13.17       4.25       0.00        0.00      0.00       1.55       8.12       2.85                   39.74      12.53
Area t   he~ irrigated            a    ---------------------------------i,ooo                             -----------------------------------------
V.l.ne -at- req.              '000 ar  t  47.39       32.27     71.01      88.90      26.60                                       10.46      54.88      19.24
Alterna tive II
U Paddy -Paddy + N 4 1'P          in        8.00      4.42       8.28      11.45       4.61                   8.00      6.11       8.21       9.75       2.90
Effectie rainfall                 in       0.11       0.21       0.25       1.40       4.20                 10.84       9.88       7.28       4.87       1.19                Dr-y Seaon      ...no.
Net field irrigation req.         in        7.89      4.21       8.63      10.05       0.41                  0.00       0.00       0.93       4.88       1.71                   Paddy      Paddy
Pumping rem. 1 60% nfl.           in      13.15       7.02      13.40      16.75       0.68                  0.00       0. 110     1.55       8.13       2.85                   51.00      12.53
Are   to he irrigated             ac       ----    --------81,000        ---------                            ----------81,000----------
Vol. _m t-tere.7             5000 or ft    88.76     47.39       90.45    113.06       4.59                                       10.46      54.88      19.24
0 Paddy (locl    - roun..dnut + N &   P    3.71       5.43       8.56       4.92                  6.00        6.46      7.49       9.19       9.02       2.25       3.77
Effective rinfall                 i        0.11       0.21       0.25       1.03                  8.70       10.84      9.60       7.28       4.87       1.05       0.36        Paddy
Net field iriainrq.               i        3.60       5.22       8.31       3.89                  0.00       0.00       0.00       1.91       4.15       1.20       3.41       (1oral)   Groundnut
Pumping rem. 1 60% ef,.           in        5.60      8.70      13.84       6.48                  0.00        0.00      0.00       3.18       6.92       2.00       5.68        12.10      40.30
Area to he ir-igated              or-    --------- 13,500         -----------------------86,400                                            ----------              ---
Vouewtrrq.            '000 er ft    6.30       9.79      15.57      7.29                                                   22.90      49.82      14.40      6.81
U Paddy (lmcal) - Pul-e    + N & LP        4.30       6.20       7.04       1.32                  6.00        4.71      7.03       8.60       9.84       3.97       3.83
Effective rainfall                in       0.11       0.21       0.25       0.33                  8.70      10.84       9.88       7.28       4.87       1.89       0.36        Paddy
Net field irrigation req.         in       4.19       5.99       6.79       0.99                  0.00        0.00      0.00       1.32       4.97       2.08       3.47       (local)     Pulses
Pumping req. 1 607. elf,          in        6.98      9.98      11.31       1.65                                                   2.20       8.28       3.47       5.78        13.95      35.70
A-ma to he irrigated              or-    ---------        13,500   -------                        ---------------97,200                    ----------              ---
Volume irater req.           1050 or ft     7.85     11.23      12.72       1.86                                                   17.82     67.07      28.11       6.50
U Vegetables + L.P                in       4,48       4.58       5.52       2.06                                                              1.50       2.61       3.32
Effective rainfall                in       0.11       0.21       0.25       0.70                                                              2.28       2.10       0.49
Net field irrigation req.         in       4.37       4.37       5.27       1.36                                                              0.00       0.51       2.83     Vegetables
Pumping req. 17 607. elf,         in       7.28       7.28       8.78       2.27                                                                         0.85       4.71        3..
Area to he irrigated              or     --------- 5,400 ----------                        -   -    -   -   -   --------- 5,400 -----                                           317
Volume water req.             '000 fc  t   3.28       3.28       3.95       1.02                                                                          0.38      2.12
Alternative 1I
Total volume water req.       '000 acft 106.19       71.68     122.70     123.23       4,59                                       51.18     171.77      62.13      14.99
Pumping disc!harge                cunec   1,727      1,291      1,996      2,273        1t6                                         860      2,794      1,586        317
Neon discharge of I-raaaddy
at Prome                        cuner  87,800     69,500     62,000    91,700    129,200                                      968,600    634,900    319,000    145,100
Pumping discharge as 7. of
mean dinrharge of TIrrawaddy             2.0        1.9        3.2        2.5        0.1                                         0.1        0.4        0.5        0.)
1/  = tempera,ture, p = monthly pe     .rce.ge of daylIyht hours of the year, I    monthly conuumptive us     factor - Iap1100, kt       climatic kolicet,h         = crop coefficient,
aed U .mothly --nouptive -n of crop = f           Ic   kth.
World oac,k-834081R



ANNEX 6
Table 2
BIURMIA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Small Pump 1rrigation Sub-P-oJect
Estimated WaterReuiemn        for 1,000 Pump. in Upper Burm
Jan-       Feb        Ma-        Ap r      MaY        Jun         Jul        Aug        Sop        Oct        Novl       Dec          lo-Msly
UPPER BURMA
11- i,30
Paddy (IIYVI                 I                                                                                 N&LP                                                      30
N1&LP
P'addy (loual) (Kausky±n)                                                                                                                                                 14
Go 0 In   U  m U10
Polo t                   IILP4
N&LP                                                          1I
Paddy Only llocaIl~KaukkIyi)                                                                                m              U          U     m   U                         30
Vr1g,wiblc                                            It                                                                LP
Unit                                        N    nursery, Id' - land preparation, H     harvest                                               Tnia Pumping
for UPPER BURMA 1/             8      70.00     74.5       82.1       89.2       87.7       84.8        82.3      86.2       84.2       82.3       76.6       69.8               in
p fur 220 N                               7.g7       7.21       8.40       8.56      9.22       9.11        9.32       9.01       8.30       8.13       7.51       7,56
n pli0O                                5.37       5.37      6.90       7.64       8.09       7.73        7.s7       7.77       6.99      6.69       5.75       5.28
kt   0.0173t - 0.314                      0.90       0.98       1.11       1.18      1.16       1.11        1.09       1.07       1.09       1.11       1.07       1.00
kc for Cotton                                        0.24       0.64      0.92       1.00       0.75        0.58
U rtten + LP 21                           3.00       1.26       3.37       8.29      9.38       6.44        1.50
Effective   anfl                          0.00       0.17       0.19       1.22      4.41       4.45        2.27       3.22       4.38       3.76       2.02       0.39
Pli.d irrigation req.              in     3.00       1.09       3.18       7.07      4.97       1.99        0.00
Pumpin,g req. 19 60% eff.          in     5.00       1.82       5.30      11.78      8.28       3.32                                                                                 35.50
Area to be irrigated-----------------------------8,100 --------------------
Volume water req.             100  an ft 3.38        1.23       3.58       7.95      5.59       3.24
kc for Paddy (HYTV)                                                                                                               0.44       0.99       1.29       0.93
U Paddy + N & LP                                                                                                       6.0        5.35       7.35       7.94       4.91
Effective rainfall                                                                                                     3,22       4.36       3.76       2.02      0,9
Pield irrigation req.              in                                                                                  2.78       0.99       3.59       5.92       4.52
Pumpin,g req. I? 60% eff.          in                                                                                  4.63       1.65       5.98       9.87       7.53              29.66
Area to be 4 llated                                                                                                    --c--------------     810---------------8,0 ------
Volume water req.             i010  ar ft                                                                              3.13       1.11       4.04       6.66       5.08
kr for Paddy (local)                                                                                        0.78       1.05       1.30       1.0.)      0.15~
U paddy + N & LP                                                                      2.0       6.0         6.52       8.73       9.90       7.43       0.86
Effectiv,e rainfall                                                                  4.41       4.45        2.27       3.22       4.36       3.76       2.02
Pield irrigation req.              in                                                0.00       1.55        4.25       5.51       5.54       3.67       0.03
Pumping req. 19 60% eff            in                                                0.00       2.58        7.08       9.18       9.23       6.12       0.00                         34.19
Area  to  be  irrigated                                                                   ---  -  --c-   -- -  - -- - -3,780   - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -
Volume -ater req.             '000 o   ft                                                       0. 11       2.23       2.89       2.91       1.93
kr 'or Cr.roudnut                         0.69       1.03       1.10       0.38                                                                                    0.26
UJ groundnut + LP                         3.33       5.42       8.42       3.43                                                                                    4,37
Effective. rainfall                       0.00       0.17       0.19       1.22                                                                                   0.39
Field irrigation req.              in     3.33       5.25       8.23       2.21                                                                                    3.98
Pumping req. 19 60% eff.           in     5.55       8.75       3.72       3.68                                                                                    6.63             38.33
Area to be irrigated         -------------2,700 -----------
Volume water req.             '000 a.: ft 1.25       1.97       3.09       0.83                                                                                    1.49
kr for Pulses                             0.90       1.12       0.82                                                                                               0.28
U pul1e- + LP                             4.35       5.39       6.28                                                                                               4.48
Effertive rainfall                        0.00       0.17       0.19                                                                                               0.39
Field irrigation req.              in     4.35       5.72       6.09                                                                                              4.09
Pumping req. 19 60% eff.           in     7.25       9.53      10.15                                                                                               6.82             33.75
Area to be irrigated               atc-----------1,080 -------------
Volume water req.             '000 or ft 0.65        0.86       0.91                                                                                               0.61
kc2 for Paddy only (local)                                                                                             0.77       1.04       1.28       1.10       0.25
U paddy 4- N & LP                                                                               3.0         5.0        6.40       7.92       9.50       6 .7 7     1.32
Effectiv,e rainfall                                                                             4.45        2.27       3. 22      4.36       3.76       2.02,      0.39
Field irrigation req.              in                                                           0.00        2.73       3.18       3.56       5.74       4.75       0.93
Pumping req. 19 601 e-f,.          in                                                           0.00        4.55       5.30       5.93       9.57       7.92       1.55             34.82
Area to be irrigated               or--------------                                                                                ,100.     .   .    .   .    ..------------
Volume water req.             '000 o   ft                                                                   3.07       3.58       4.00       6.46       3.35       1.05
kr for Ve!getables                        0.79       0.56                                                                                    0.40'      0.70       0.82
U vegetables + LP                         3.82       2.95                                                                         3.00       2.97       4.31       4.33
Effectiv- rainfall                        0.00       0.17                                                                         4.36       3.76       2.02       0.39
Pield irrigation req.              in     3.82       2.78                                                                         0.00       0.00       2.29       3.94
Pumpin,g req. 19 60% eff.          in     6.37       4.63                                                                         0.00       0.00       3.8?       6.57             21,39
Area to be irrigated               or --------------------                     ----------------- 540---------
Volume ..ter req.             '000 or ft 0.29        0.21                                                                                               0.17       0.30
Total veIume water req.       '000 ar ft 5.57        4.27       7.58       8.78       5.59      3.05        5.30       9.60       8.02      12.43      12.18       8.53
11 1  temperature, p     monthly percentage of doylight boor. of tbe yeor, f       monthly ronsumpti"e. use factor = tx p/100, kt =       ilatr    offi,jent,
kr   crop roefficienr, and U     mon.thly ro..numptiv,e use of crop = f x kc    kth.
W.ord 8,onk-8349 191



ANNEX 6
BURM[A                    Table 3
IlI(GATION I PROJECT
Water Demand and PumpingU Time
LOWER BURMA                          UPPER BURMA
Alternative I 1/     Alternative II 2/         Vol. of   No. of
Vol. of   No. of      Vol. of   No. of           Water    Pumping
Water    pamping      Water    Pumping           Req.     Hours
Req.     Hours        Req.     Hours           (,000      Per
(9,000    Per         (9,000    Per             pumps)   Dav 3/
Month       pumps)   Day/         pumps)   Day 3/
-('1000                ('000('0
ac ft)                ac ft)                    ac ft)
Jan        64.8       4.4       106.2       7.1              5.6      4.4
Feb        56.6       3.8        71.7       4-8             4-3       3.4
Mar        103.2      6.9        122,7      8.3              7.6      6.o
Apr         99        6.7        123.2      8.3              8.8      6.9
May         28.7      2.0          4.6      0.4              5.6      4.4
Jun                    -           -         -               3.1      2.5
Jul                    -          -          -              5.3       4.2
Aug          -         -           -                         9.6      7.5
Sep         51.2      3.5        51.2       3.5              8.0      6.2
Oct        171.8     11.6        171.8     11.6            12.4       9.8
Nov         62.1      4.2         62.1      4.2             12.2      9.6
Dee         15.0      1.0         15.0      1.0              8.5      6.6
1/ Growing 9 ac of jute and 3.6 ac of miscellaneous crops during dry
season and 294-. ac of paddy during wet season.
2/ Growing 9 ac of HYV paddy and 3.6 ac of miscellaneous crops during
dry season and 29.4 ac of paddy -during wtst season.
-/  Calculation based on. 25.pwk-ping-days per month.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Sumuary ProJect Cost Estimates 1/
% of
Project
Local    1     Total   Local Foreign Total    Cost
-- 'K million -           US$ million ---
Small Pump Irrigation
Pump and Accessories         3.7   36.9   40.6      0.7    7.7    8.4       37
Workshop Equipment and
Tools                      0.3    3.1    3.4       -     0.7    0.7       3
Jute Baling Plants           4.3    2.0    6.3      0.9    0.4    1.3       6
Administration and Overhead  2.3     -     2.3      0.5     -     0.5       2
Contingencies
Physical                   0.7    0.5    1.2      0.2    0.1    0.3        1
Price                      4.1  l1.9    16.o      0.9           3.3
Sub-Total                 15.4   54.4   69.8      3.2   11.3   14.5      64
Minor Flood Embankments
Embankment Construction 2/   2.4    0.8    3.2      0.5    0.2    0.7        3
Equipment and Spares         0.7    7.5    8.2      0.2    1.5    1.7       8
Administration and Overhead  0.6     -     0.6      0.1     -     0.1       1
Contingencies
Physical                   0.4    0.8    1.2      0.1    0.2    0.3       1
Price                      1.7    2.0    3.7      0.3           0.7        3
Sub-Total                  5.8   11.1   16.9      1.2    2.3    3.5      16
Repair of Construction Equipment
Spare Parts                  0.6   10.8   11.4      001    2.2    2.3       11
Repair Services              2.3     -     2.3      0.5     -     0.5        2
Contingencies
Physical                   0.3    1.1    1.4      0.1    0.2    0.3       1
Price                      1.2    3.0    4.2      0.2    0.7    0.9
Sub-Total                  4.4   14.9   19.3      0.9    3.1    4.0       18
Feasibility Studies
Mu River Irrigation Project  0.5    0.9    1.4      0.1    0.2    0.3        1
Other Irrigation Project     0.5    o.5    1.0      0.1    0.1    0.2       1
Sub-Total                  1e0    1.4    2.4      0.2    0.3    0.5        2
Total                     26.6   81.8 1L084             17.0  22.5      100
=
1/ Errors due to rounding.
2/ Including imported materials for sluices (cement, reinf. steel, steel gates, etc.)



ANNEX 7
Page 2
BURMA
iRRIGATION I PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Small Pump Irrigation Sub-Project
Local  Foreign   Total     Local  Foreign  Total
--     K '000-----  ---  -------  US$ '000 -----
Pumps and Accessories
4" low lift pump with 5 hp diesel engine and accessories:
9,000 sets @ US$ 420 cif Rangoon                                     1,820  18,200   20,020       378   3,780   4,158
4" high lift pump with 8-10 hp diesel engine and accessories:
1,000 sets @ US¢ 750 cif Rangoon                                       361    3,611   3,972        75     750     825
4" delivery hose for above pump sets: 1.5 million ft. @
US$ 0.44 cif Rangoon                                                   318    3,178   3,496        66     660      726
Spares for pump sets @ 25%                                               549    5,513   6,062       114    1,145   1,259
Spare delivery hose for 5 years replacement:  -.0 million ft.
@ US$ 0.44 cif Rangoon                                                  635   6,356   6,991       132    1,320   1,452
Sub-Total                                                       3,683   36,858  40,541       765   7,655    8,42Q
Workshop Equipment and Tools
For 5 major repair and service stations @ US$ 130,000 cif Rangoon
Sub-Total                                                         313    3,130   3,443        65     650      715
Jute Baling Plants (4 plants @ 12.5 ton/shift)
Baling press @ US$ 12,000 cif Rangoon                                      58     231     289        12       48      60
Diesel generating set, 80 KW @ US$ 10,000 cif Rangoon                      48     193     241        10       40      50
Small gage rails and flat bottom wagons                                   96      386     482        20       80     100
Misc. equipment and tools                                                  24     217     241         5       45      50
Building and ground: river landing, baling bldg, powerhouse,
sheds, godowqns, staff houses, land filling, roads, fence, etc.      4,011       997  5,008       833     207    1,040
Sub-Totsl                                                       4,237    2,024   6,261       880     420    1,300
Administration and Overhead                                                2,335     -     2,335       485      -       485
Contingencies 2/
Physical (10%, excl. pumps and accessories)                              722      482   1,204       150     100      250
Price escalation                                                        4,117  11 917  16.034       855    2,475   3.380
Sub-Total                                                         4,839   12,399  17,238     1,005   2,575    3,580
Total                                                            15.407   54,411  69.818     32Q    11 300   14.5Q0
1/ Accessories include suction hose, foot valve, tools, two 4 gallon jerry cans, etc.
2/ Price escalation based on the following annual percentage rate:
Equipment and
Civil Works   Administration and Overhead
1974             18                     14
1975             15                     11
1976-77          12                      7.5



ANNEX 7
Page 3
BUJMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Minor Flood Embankment Sub-Project
Local Foreig  Total     Local Foreign Total
--K '0 0------        ----- US$ '0    ---
Civil Works
Duntape Drainage and BEbank-
ment (I~mb. No. 1)            1,252    674 1,926        260    140    400
Kattiya-Tagundaing Embankment
(Emb. No. 2)                    400    34    434        83      7     90
Kaleik-Tawkanut Embankanent
(Emnb. No. 3)                   178    14    192        37      3     40
Kawe-Thandin Bmbankment
(Emb. No. 4)                    573          626       119     11    130
Sub-Total                    23,403   775  3,178       499    161    660
EutpMent and Spares                 746  7,463  8,209       155 1,550   1,705
Administratien and Overhead         568     -     568       118     -     118
Contigencies
Physical (10%)                    371    823 1,194         77    171    2148
Price Escalation 1/                                        5 2,013  3,703  351  418  769
Sub-Total                    2,061  2,836  4,897       1428   589 1,017
Total                        5 ,778 11,074 16 852    1,200  2,300  3,$00
1/  Price escalation based on the following annual percentage rate:
Equipment and
Civil Works   Admin. and Overhead
1974              18               114
1975              15               11
1976-77           12                7-5



ANNEX 7
Page 4
BURK1A
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Cost IEstimates
Repair of Construction i~quipmnt
Local Forign Total     Local Foreim Total
K        ' 000               US-;-'-0s$  --- -
Spare Parts                        544 10,834 11,378      113 2,250 2,363
Labor and Admin. Costs for
Repairing Services             2L,408   -   2,408       500    -      500
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                   284 1,083 1,367         59    225    28L4
Prioe Escalation 1/            1,098  3,009  4,107      228    6     853
SLib-Total                  1,382  4,092  5,4714     287    850 1,137
Total                       4,334 14,926 19,260      900 39100 4000
17 Price escalation based on 11h for 1974, 11% for 1975 and 7.5% for 1Y76.



ANNEx 8
Page 1
BIJRNA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
List of Equipment and Mcaterials
snall Pump Irrigation Sub-Project
Item                                                       UInit Price        Total
No.                Description                 Qtv          Rangeen          Value
--US$
Paulp and Accessories
1    Complete set of low lift (30 ft) 4i"
pump direct coupled to 5 hp diesel
engine, on skid mount, capable of
pumping 300 Om (0.8 cusec). Each
set is equipped with reinforced
rtubber suction hose, foot valve,
two-L; gal. jerry cans, tools,etc.    9,000           420          3,780,000
2    Complete set of high lift (60 ft) 4"
pump direct coupled to 8-10 hp
diesel engine, on skid mount,
capable of pumping 230 gpm (0.6
cusec). Each set is equipped with
reinforced rubber suction hose,
foot valve, two-4 gal. jerry cans,
tools, etc.                           1,000           750            750,000
3    VWinyl-rubber delivery hose, 4"
diameter, for above pump sets
D. 150 ft per set                     1.5 million  0.4b/ft           660,ooo
4    Vinyl-rubber delivery hose, 4"
diameter, for 5 years replace-
ment                                  3Q0 million  O.4/ft          1,320,000
5    Spares for pump sets, 25%               lot                          1 1L45 000
Sub-Totel                                                       7, 655, 000
Workshop Equipment and Tools
6    Upright fine boring machine             5            16,000             80,000
7    Vertical honning machine                5            13,500             67,,50o
8    Crankslhaft regrinding machine          5            25,000            125,000
9    Line boring machine                     5            11,000             55,000
.I.   ConnectinE rc)d boring and grinding
machiine                              5            10,000             50,000



ANNEX 8
Page 2
tm                                                           Unit Price         To tal
Description                   t            -aoValue
Lathe (swing 630 mn)                                   11t,Ooo              (O!,000
.     Lathe (swing 400 mm)                     5            11,50c.o
.3    Bench drill (3/4" capacity)              5                65o              3,. 'O
1'    Hacksawing machine                       5                900              )4, 500
15    Valve refacer machine                    5                650              3,250
16    Valve seat grinder                       5                500             LL,500
17    Nozzle tester                            5                200              1,000
18    Torque wrench                           10               150               1,500
19    Mechanic tool kit                       20                650             13,00C
20    Tap and die set                          5                150                750
'21   High lift floor crane                    5               600               3., 000
22    Hand press                               5                300              1,500
23    Compression tester                      10                100              1,000
24    Portable arc welder                      5              3,600 o8oOOU
25    Fuel injection pump test ben(h           5              7,150             37,750
26    Spares and miscellaneous equipment       5 lot        11,200              56,ooo
Sub-rTotal                                                          650,000
Jute Baling Plan-Gs
27    Baling press,screw type, electric
motor driven (40 hp)., 3 step
range gear, loading capacity 300
tons, capable of baling not
less than 10 bales/hr.                 4            12,000              48Io000
28    Diesel electric generating set,
80 KW, complete with switchboard       4            10,000              40,000
29    Snall gage rail and flat bottom
wagons                                 4 sets       20,000              80,C'OC



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Item                                                         Unit Price         Total
No.                  Description                 t           Rangoon            Value
1-$--------US$-
30    Miscellaneous equipment and tools         4 lots       11,250              45,000
3]    Building materials (to be imported):
cement, reinf. stedl, structural
steel,galvanized iron sheet and
pipe, asbestos-cement sheet,
barbed wire, elect. wire and
connections, etc.                      lot                              207,000
Sub-Total                                                           420,000
Total                                                             8     0725,00o



ANNEX 8
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
List of   uipment and Materials
Minor Flood Emibankmnent Sub-ProJect
J17m                                                      Unit Price         Total
DIscription                               Rangoon           Value
--------- US$ ---------
Materials for Civil Works
1    Materials to be imported: cement,
reinf. and structural steel, steel
gate and hoist for sluices             lot                         161,000
Construction and Earthmoving Equipment
Scraper, 9 cu yd , self propelled         8          65,000          520,000
3    Crawler tractor, 180-220 hp               4          53,000          212,000
Dr'agli-re, 2 cu yd                           1          90,000          90,000
'    Larnding craft for transportation of
equipment, approx. 120 tons loading
capacity, self propelled                1         400,000          400 ,000
e    Water spraying truck, 1,600 gal           2          10,000           20,000
7    Truck, diesel, 5 tons                     4           7,000           28,000
8    Inspection vehicles, 4-wheel dr.          4           4,500           18,000
v    Electric generator, 15 KW, diesel dr.     4           3,000          12,000
; .   Joncrete mixer, 10/7 cu ft               4           4,000           16,000
Pump set, diesel, 4",300 gpm              8             450            3,600
i     Outboard motor, 45 hp                    2           1,500            3,000
13    Arc welding set, gas engine dr.           1           1,500           1,500
I4   Gas welding set                           1             600             600
q    Concrete vibrator, gas engine dr.         4             700           2,800
16    Mechanical tamper set                     4           2,000            8,ooo



ANNEX 8
Page 5
Unit Price         Total
10              Description                   Rtz        Rangoon          Value
17    Bar cutting arid bending machine         1           3,500            3,500
18    Miseellaneous equip. and tools          lot                         20,000
19    Spare parts for above equipment         lot                         191,000
Total                                                        1,711,0Q0



ANNEX 8
Page 6
,KTM- -R
iRRIGATION I PROJECT
List of-aares
Rep;ir of Construction Equiprent Stb-Project
Item                                        Year of       Est. Cost of
Nc.           Equipment on Hand     Qty    Purchas.e   Spares Required
(US$)
Scraper Class IL, 1)4 cu yd
Allis Chalmers TS-260        8       1965            47,000
22       1965           128,000
3                                  2)4     1967           220,000
4      Wabco 'C' Pull (GM8V-71)    36      1967           309,000
90
Scraper Class II, 9_ cu yd
5      Wabco 'D' Pull             12       1967            62s,000
6      Euclid S/7                  10      1967            64,000
22
Crawler Tractor Class I
7      I.H. TD 25                 20       1965           1)40,000
8                "-                 7      1969            72,000
9               -"-                 3      1970            43,000
10      Allis Chalmers HD/21P       3       1966            2)4,000
11                                 10       1967           103,000
1c                                   2      1968            13,000
Crawler Tractor Class II
13      Euclid C-6                   7      1967            52,,000
Rubber Tyred Dozer
14      Wabco Super 'C'              6      1965            23,000
15               4I-                        1965           169,000
5O
Crawler Loader
Ib      Inl' Harvester IH-250        6      1965            27,000
17               -'i-                6      1966            36,)00
12



ANNEX 8
Page 7
Item                                        Year of        Est. Cost of
No.            Equipment            Q WY   Purchase       ares Reqmired
(US$ )
Excavator Class I
18      P & H 655B                   3       1967            17,000
19      Hitachi U 116L               2       1965            19,000
T
Excavator Class II
20      Hitachi u-i06 A, 3/4 cu yd   3       1965             7,000
21              W-106 A, 1 cu yd     2       1966             9,000
Gradall
22      Rubber Tired G-1000,
2 cu yd                    3       1965            37,000
23      Crawler G-1000,
2 cu yd                    2       1966            38,000
Trencher
'       Barber-Green TA-55          3       1966             8,000
Compactor
25      Hyster C-550A                1       1969             2,500
Sheep Foot Roller
26      German                      20       1965             8,000
pairs
30/40 Ton Load Carrier
27      I.H.RDF-210 H                3       1966           13,000
28      Scammel 35/40 ton            2      1967            17,000
5
DInnp Truck
Avreling Barford SN-30      12       1966           106,000
30      Wabco W-20A                  3       1969            20 ,000
Tipper Truck
31      Toyota, 4 x 2               20       1965            10,000
32      Isuzu, 4 x 4                32       1966            21,000
33      Isuzu, 4 x 2                59       1968            29,000
34      Isuzu, 4 x 2                30       1970            47,000



ANNEx 8
Page 8
Tte,r                                       Year of        Est. Cost of
No.             Equipment           Q      Purchase     Spares Required
(u5
Inspection Vehicles
35      Toyota & Willys Jeep        91       1966           58,ooo
Workshop Truck
36      Elliott                      2       1964            11,200
Water Track, Gasoline Engine
37      Toyota, 1000 gal            12       1966             9,600
38      Toyota, 1000 gal            10       1968             6,900
39      Ley-land, 2000 gal          .5       1971            12,100
27
Water Truck, Diesel
40      Isuzu, 1000 gal              5       1966             4,1 00
41      Isuzu, 2500 gal              8       1970            16,000
)12     Hino, 1200 gal               2       1972            6,900
Mobile Concrete Mixer
43      Millars-600                  1       1966             2,,900
44      Millars-500                  2       1968             3,400
Concrete Mixer
45      Wlinget l4/i0 ¢u ft         4       1966             1,800
46      Winget 10/7  au ft          15       1966             1,000
47      Winget  7/5  cu ft          21       1966             1,400
40      Aveling Barford 5/3 cu ft   36       1966            2,200
76
Batching Plant
49      Johnson, 1 au yd             9       1965            12,000
Concrete Bucket
50      Belgium 1 eu yd             22       1966               900
51      Japan 16   cu ft            18       1966               500
Rock Crusher
5?      Kurimoto                    12       1964            37,000



ANNEX 8
Page 9
Item                                       Year of        Est Cost of
:-Io.          Equipment           Qty    Purchase     Spares Required
(US$
Washing & Screening Plant
53      Loroparisini, Italy         8       1965             2,400
Grou.tirn Equipment
5L      Yanmar                      9       1966             2,1400
ElectUrical Vibrator
55      Johnson                    30       1967             1,200
Mechanical Vibrator
56      A B. Vibro-Verken          33       1967             2 ,600
- Compressor
57      Pe-tter Air Pump 600 cfm    9       1965            12,000
58      Broom & Wade 350 cfm       11       1965             8,000
20
Pneumatic Tools
59     B]oom & Wade               .54       1967             2,100
Pneumatic Pile Haxmner
60      British Steel Pile         13       1967            25,000
Generator, 250KVA
61      Doxnan, England             8       1967           142,0'0
Generator, lOOKVA
62      Dorman, England             4       1967            12 ,000
WIater PUTps
63      Kubota, 6"1                13       1964             3 ,300
64      Kubota, 10"                12       1964             4,200
65 dr)-bota, 14"                   25       1964             1, 700
Bar Bending & Shear Machine
66      Ger:man                     2       1968             2,700
Total               932                   2,250,000



BURMA
IRRIGATIONi 1 PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
-------------------------------------- Calendar Year --------------------------------------
Total             1974                    1975                    1976                   1977
Item                        Cost      Local Foreign Total    Local Forei .g Total    Local Foreign Total     Local Foreign Total
------------------------------------------- US$ Million --------------------------------------------
Small Pump Irrigation i
Pump and Accessories                  8.4        -      -      -       0.1     1.7   1.8       0.3    3.0    3.3       0.3    3.0    3.3
Workshop Equipment and Tools          0.7        -      -      -        0.1    0.6    0.7       -      -      -         -      -      -
Jute Baling Plants                    1.3        -      -      -         -    0.1    0.1       0.5    0,2    0.7       0.4    0.1    0.5
Administration and Overhead           0.5       0.1     -     0.1       0.1    -     0.1       0.2     -     0.2       0.1     -     0.1
Contingencies                         3.6        -      -      -       0.1    0.5    0.6       0.4    0.9    1.3       0.5    1.2    1.7
Sub-Total                        14.5       0.1     -    0.1       0.4    2.9    3.3                1    531.3
Minor Flood Embankment
Civil Works (Embankment Const.)       0.7        -      -      -        -     0.1    0.1       0.3    0.1    0.4       0.2     -     0.2
Equipment and Spares                  1.7        -      -      -        0.1    1.0   1.1         -    0.6    0.6               -      -
Administration and Overhead           0.1        -      -      -         -     -       -        0.1    -     0.1        -      -      -
Contingencies                         1.0        -            -         0.1   o,3     o.4       0.?.  0.2    0.4       0.2     -     0.2
Sub-Total                         3.3        -      -      -       0.2    1.4    1.6       0.6    0.9    1.5       0.4     -     0.4
Repair of Construction Eq!ipment
Spare Parts                           2.3        -      -      -         -    0.7    0.7       0.1    1.5    1.6        -      -      -
Labor and Administration for
Repairing Service                   0.5        -      -      -        0.2     -     0.2      0.3     -     0.3        -      ^      -
Contingencies                         1,2        -     -0.1                    0.2   0.3       0.2    0.7    0.9        -
Sub-Total                         4.0        -                      o -  0.3  0.9  1.2     0.6    2.2    2.&        -      -      -
Feasibility Studies
Mu River Irrigation Project           0.3       0.1    0.1    0.2        -     0.1    0.1        -      -      -         -      -      -
Other Irrigation Project              0.2       -       -      -        0.1    0.1    0.2
Sub-Total                         0.5       0.1    0.1    0.2       0.1    0.2    0.3        -      -      -        -      -      -
Total                            22.5       0.2    0.1    0.3       1.0    5.4    6.4       2.6   7.2     9.8       1.7   4.3     6.0
==       -                      =   s
(Dm



NEX
Page 2
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year               Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                  US$ Million Equivalent
1975
1st                                0.1
2nd                                 o.6
1976
lst                                2.1
2nd                                4.6
1977
lst                                7.1
2nd                               -10.1
1st                               12.6
2nd                                15.0
1979
1st                               17.0



ANNEX 1 0
Page 1
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Organization and Management
General
1.        Overall responsibility for the project would rest with the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) (Figure 1). A Project Committee under the
chairmanship of the Deputy Minister of MAF, with the Directors General
of the Irrigation Department (ID), Agricultural Mechanization Department (AMD),
Planning and Statistics Department (PSD) and the Managing Director of the
Agriculture Corporation (AC), together with the Director General of Dir-
ectorate of Cooperatives (DC) of Ministry of Cooperatives as members, would
direct, supervise and rmionitor project implementation (Figure 2).  Various
parts of the project would be carried out by these agencies.   AMD would
implement the Small Pump Irrigation sub-project. ID would implement the
Minor Flood Embankment sub-project, the Repair of Construction Equipment and
would carry out the Feasibility Studies. AIC would set: up the four jute
baling plants and would provide extensian services, seeds and agricultural
inputs to farmers in the project areas. PSD would monitor project benefits
and would prepare project progress reports. DC of Ministry of Cooperatives
would distribute diesel fuel, lubricant and grease for pumps to farmers and
cooperatives.
Project Components
2.        Small Pump Irriat.ion. As is the current practice, groups of
farmers or primary village tract cooperatives would request pumps through
the AC's Village Tract Managers. After approval by the Managers, these
applicatioias would be passed on to AMD through the local tractor stations.
AMD would deliver pumps to the approved applicants at the local tractor
stations. The terms of sale would be the same as the current practice,
that is on cash for a group of at least three farmers operating an aggregate
farm land of not less than 20 ac, and 50% down payment with the balance
to be paid within 12 months for cooperatives. At present AMD already has
over 5,000 applications from groups of farmers and it is reasonably certain
tihat there would be no difficulty in selling all 10,000 pump sets provided
under the project within the 3 year implementation period. AMD would pro-
vide basic training to farmers on the operation and maintenance of pumps
and provide repair services for these pumps at 14 tractor stations in Lower
Burma and 28 stations in Upper Burma (Table 1). Five of these stations -
four in Lower Burma (Henzada, Myaungm,ya, Wakema and Maubin) and one in Upper
Burma (in Mandalay Division) - would be equipped with modern workshop equipment
and tools provided under the Project and would be established as major repair
stations capable of carrying out major overhaul of pump sets. AC would provide
extension services and agricultural inputs to farmers. As is the current



ANNEX 1 0
Page 2
practice, AC would purchase jute and cotton from farmers and would
establish, own and operate the four jute baling plants financed by the
project. DC of Ministry of Cooperatives would supervise the distribution
of diesel fuel, lubricant and grease for pumps to farmers and cooperatives
through village tract cooperative stores scattered throughout the project
area.
3.       MHinor Flood Embankment. ID would be responsible for the final
design, construction and maintenance oi the embankments, Dhantape drain and
sluice and for the procurement of equipment and materials needed for their
construction. The construction would be carried out by ID under force
account. AC would provide extension services and agricultural inputs to
farmers in the sub-project areas.
4.        Repair of Construction Equipment.  Altogether 932 piecek; of
equipment beiLonging to TD with an aggregate value of over US$20 million
would be repaired. ID would be responsible for procuring the needed spare
parts and for carrying out the repair and would thereafter put this equip-
ment to work mainly on four major on-going irrigation projects (Annex 4),
which havta been delayed due to a shortage of equipment.
5.        Feasibility Studies. ID would be responsible for carrying out
tihe feasibility studies for two future irrigation projects. The fi.rst,
Mu River Irrigation project, has been under consideration by GOB since 1953.
A feasibility report of the project was carried out with assistance from
UNDP by a consulting firm beginning in 1966. 1/ However, because of the
large size of the project, GOB has decided to investigate the possibility
of dividing it into two stages. In this connection, there is a need to
update the report, to perform the additional survey work and analysis
required to investigate fully the possibilities for two stages development.
To prepare a possible first stage project, additional information and studies
are also required on the appropriate level of rehabilitation works, the need
tor additional distributary canals and drainage networks, and the level of
on-farm development works. ID would be responsible for preparing
the project for which GOB has requested assistance from the FAO/IBRD/Coop-
erative Program (CP). CP would need the help of consultants in carrying out
this work and in such specialized fields as engineering geology, earth dam
design and hydropower. Similarly, GOB may require the help of consultants
to carry out the feasibility study for a succeeding irrigation project, which
it will choose from among a number of projects already identified which are
in variouL, stages of investigation, in consultation with the Association.
Description of Implementing Agencies
6.        Agricultural Mechanization Dcpartment (AID). AMD provides farm
tractors, pumps and other machinery for sale and hire (with drivers) to
1/   The contract for the execution of the studies for this feasibility
report was awarded to Italconsult S.P.A. (Italy) on August 12, 1966.
The basic report is dated March 1970, supplemented in October 1972
andai revised by a Note on Alternative Schemes in June 1973.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 3
farmers and village tract cooperatives, and installs village water supplies.
Of its six head office divisions, two deal with farm machinery, one with
rural water supply and three with administration. It also has two field
divisions dealing with farm machinery - one in Upper Burma with, headquarters
in iMandalay, and the other in Lower Burma with headquarters in Rangoon.
Its organization is presented in Figure 3. Altogether AMD's staff total
11,757, including 164 officers, of whomi 123 are with agricultural machinery
divisions, 31 with rural water supply and 10 in administrative divisions.
7.        Tractors have been AMD's main concern. As of September 30, 1973,
it owned 7,912 tractors, of which 3,143 were in operable condition, 3,953
needed repair and 816 were too old to be repaired economically. Of these
tractors, 80% are Czech "Zwe" models, assembled in Burma, and 20% are of
USSR manufactured. In addition, 2,415 tractors had been sold to village
tract cooperatives - 1,761 in Lower Burma and 544 in Upper Burma. In Upper
Burma there is one training school at Meiktila for training drivers and
mechanics, a base workshop at Mandalay and 49 tractor stations scattered
over the whole area. In Lower Burma, there is a training school at Payagyi,
a base workshop and a store depot in Rangoon and 39 tractor stations, which
were responsible for their operations, maintenance and repair.
8.        Utilization of tractors on a hire basis has been very low,
averaging around 200 ac per tractor annually. Staffing costs have been
high. For example, a tractor station with 100 tractors could have some
197 employees including drivers, mechanics, clerks and workmen. Tractor
rental rates per ac are K 18 for ploughing and K 12 for harrowing, compared
with direct operating costs of K 20 and K 18 respectively. In 1971/72
AND lost some K 38 million on its tractor operations. Government policy
now is to sell all tractors to the village tract cooperatives, whose oDer-
ating costs are much lower and whose utilization is around 400-500 ac per
tractor per year. The target -late for this sale has recently been set
for April 1, 1974. Terms are 10% down, 20% annual installments for four
years and 10% final installment in the fifth year. Credit for this opera-
tion will be provided by the Union Bank of Burma to the village tract coop-
eratives through either the township cooperatives or AND itself,   AMD
will continue to provide maintenance and repair facilities at its tractor
stations, and will continue to train tractor operators.
9.        AMD also sells pumps, power-tillers, threshers, reapers and
hullers. During the last two years, it sold 8,400 pumps to groups of
farmers, of which less then 10% are idle requiring spares. Power-till ers,
threshers and rice hullers were introduced in 1970 and so far about 230
power tillers, 40 threshers and 10 rice hulJers have been sold, mainly to
village tract cooperatives. Most of the small machines are of Kubota
design. The 4 in and 6 in pumps are sold to groups of farmers on cash and
to cooperatives on 50% down pavment with the balance after 12 months.
Larger 8 in and 10 in pumps are sold only to cooperatives for 20% down
paYrment and the balance over 2 years. For power tillers the terms are 50%
down and the balance after 12 months. Reapers, threshers and small trailers
are sold for cash: No interest is charged. Buyers receive training in
operation and maintenance at the tractor stations in the townships - three



ANNEX 1 0
Page 4
weeks for tillers and one week for pumps. All maintenance and repairs are
handled by the local tractor stations, but the supply of spare parts is
often short.
i0.       Irrigation Department (ID). ID is responsible for the planning,
design, construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage
systems, reclamation, waten7ays, flood control and protection works throughout
Burma. It is one of the stronger depar. tments in the, country employing over
200 qualified engineers and agriculturists, over 600 technicians, and about
6,000 permanent staff comprising clerks, foremen, overseers, drivers,
mechanics, fitters, operators, skilled labourers etc. In spite of the low
priority given to agricultural development in the recent past, its badget has
been large i-n the Burmese context, rising steadily from K 40 million in 1962
to K 87 million in 1972. Of these amounts, about 60% was for capital expend-
itures for the construction of new projects and 40% for current expenditures
for operation and maintenance of existing works.
11.       The construction of all ID projects has been carried out by the
Department's force account. ID owns a large fleet of construction and
transport equipment, valued over US$50 million. However, most of the equip-
ment is old and in recent years due to the country's shortage of foreign
exchange to buy spare parts, about half of it is out of order. ID has a large
workshop in Rangoon and three equipment rerair shops in Rangoon, Meiktila
and Prome, equipped with modern workshop equipment and machine tools, and
more important, with experienced mechanics and fitters.
12.       The Department is headed by a Director General and is divided into
three head office divisions (Planning and Design, Maintenance and Mechanical)
and six field divisions, two of which are for construction (Meiktila and
Prome) and four are for O&M (SagainLg, Mandalay, Meiktila and Taunggyi). The
organization chart of the Department is shown in Figure 5.
13.       Implementation of the Minor Flood Embankment would be under the
Division Head of Maintenance (Rangoon). An executive engineer would be
appointed to take charge of this work. Repair of Construction Equipment
would be the responsibility of the Head of the Mechanical Division (Rangoon),
and the preparation of Feasibility Studies would be under the responsibility
of the Head of the Planning and Design Division. Since all these works
would be under the three head office division chiefs, the Director General
of ID would be able to guide, supervise and follow the progress of these
works closely.
14.       Agriculture Corporation (AC).  AC was established in March 1971
by the merger of the former Agriculture Department and the Agricultural
and Rulral Development Corporation, both of which were separate units within
MIAF. AC is responsible for:
(a) Providing agricultural extension services;
(b) Providing agricultural inpuits to farmers;



ANNEX 10
Table 1
Page 1
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Small    p      on     Sub-Project
Tractor Stations in Sub-Project Areas
For Repairing Pumps and Agriculture Machinery
I. Lower Burma
Serial No.              Tractor Station No.       Location in Tswnship
1                           9                   SXyungon
2                          13                   Myanaung
3                          15                   Henzada. 1/
4                          17                   Yegyi
5                          19                  Maubin. 1/
6                           33                  Danub,;yu
'7                         38                  Myaungmya 1/
8                          49                   Zalun
9                          51                   Bassein
10                          52                   Yandoon
11                          53                   Moulmeingyun
12                          75                   Ingabu
13                           76                  Monyo
1)4                          78                  Wakema 1/
II.  Upper Burma
Serial No.              Tractor Station No.        Location
1                            3                  Shwebo
2                           4                  Monywa
3                           5                   Sagaing
4                           6                   Ye-U
5                            7                  Ngazun
6                            9                  Kanbalu
7                          10                   Yinmabin
8                          11                   Myinmu
9                          13                   Wetlet
10                          14                   Butalin
11                          15                   Myingyan
12                          16                   Tada-U
13                           17                  Meiktila
14                          20                   Thazi
15                           21                  Yamethin
16                           23                  Madaya
I.7                          24                  Pyinmana
18                          25                   Wundwin
19                          26                   Mandalay 1/
i./ w'lajor repair st,ations.



ANNEX 10
Table 1
Pages :
Serial No.              Tractor Station No.      Location
20                          27                 Myi.ttha
21                          29                 Pyawbwe
22                          30                 Tatkon
23                          31                 Pathe-ingyi
24                          32                 K,yaukse
25                          34                 Magwe
26                          37                 Kinbu
27                          38                 Pwi nbu
28                          42                 Pakokku



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER
MINITER'S OFFICE           ICOMM=FT         INTTEE
-                               PEOPLE'S
AGRICULTURE*    TIMBER                    PEARL &         SALT
CORPORATIONE    CORPORATION                FISHERY        CORPORATION
CORPORATION
._____ -~                    ~         ATO       FOETIE
VETERINARY                   WORKING                                                   SETTLEMENT
~W~111~1c                                          ARICLTURAL
11:1;l[ra1    & ANIMAL       FISHERIES     PEOPLE'S                                      SURVEY      & LAND
HUSBANDRY      DEPT.         SETTLEMENT   DP                               DEPT.        RECORDS
DEPT.                        DEPT.         E                                            DEPT.
U   Dirwcly concwned with implenentetion of th, project
World bnk-U5WRJ



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT MANAGEMENT
MINISTRY OF AGRICUL-
TURE AND FORESTS
(MAF)
1/
PROJECT COMMITTEE
ARCLUAIRIAINDPRMNAGRICULTURE                                                                               PLANNING AND                       DIRECTORATE
MECHANIZATION DEPT.                      0IRRIGATION DEPARTM)ENT                                     CORPORATIUON                 STATISTICS DEPARTMENT                OF COOPERATIVES
|(MD)                                                                                            M(AC                               (PSD)                   INISTRY OF COOPERATIVES)
Small Pump              Minor Flood         Repair of          Feasi-                   Jute Baling        Extension              Coordination,Realnlt
Irrigation              Embankment          Construc-          bility                   Plants             Services               Progress Reports,                 Village Tract
Sub-Project,            Sub-Project         tion Equip-        Studies                                     and Agricul-           Monitoring                        Coop Stores)
except                                      ment                                                           tural Inputs           of Project                        of fuel for
Jute Baling                                                                                                                       Benefits                          pumps to farmers
Plants                                                                .& cooperatives
1/ Project Committee would comprise Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Forests as Chairman, Directors General of AMD, ID and PSD,
Managing Director of AC and Director General of Directorate of Cooperatives, Ministry of Cooperatives as members.
lllIllI Direct  Control
Coordination                                                                                                                                                              W    B



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL MECHANIZATION DEPARTMENT (AMD) ORGANIZATION
DIRECTOR GENERAL
IINSPECTORATE
UTILIZATION           TECHNICAL            RURAL WATER         UDGET & ACCOUNTS      ORGANIZATION &        PROCUREMENT
(EQUIPMENT)            BREPAIR)               SUPPLY              DIVISION           ADMINISTRATION          PROVISION
DIVISION              IVISION   DIVISION DIVISION                                     DIVISION              DIVISION
UPPER BURMA DIVISION                                             LOWER BURMA DIVISIO
(MAN DALAY)                                                      (RANGOON)
MECHANIZATION        NO. 2 BASE      TRACTOR STATIONS                    MECHANIZATION        NO. 1 BASE         NO. 1 BASE          TRACTOR
TRAINING SCHOOL       WORKSHOP         (49 STATIONS)                     TRAINING SCHOOL        WORKSHOP         STORE DEPOT          STATIONS
(MEIKTILA)        (MANDALAY)                                             (PAYAGYI)          (RANGOON)         (RANGOON)          (39 STATIONS)
NO. 1 RURAL       NO. 2 RURAL      NO. 3 RURAL      NO. 4 RURAL       RURAL WATER       RURAL WATER
WATER SUPPLY      WATER SUPPLY     WATER SUPPLY     WATER SUPPLY     SUPPLY WORKSHOP   SUPPLY TUBEWELL
STATION           STATION         STATION           STATION           & STORES         REPAIRING   I                            ) 0
(MONYWA)         (MEIKTILA)       (PAKOKKU)          (MAGWE)            DEPOT             UNITS
World Bank-8345(2R)



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
AGRICULTURE CORPORATION (AC) ORGANIZATION
| MANAGING DIRECTOR
GENERAL MANAGER           GENERAL MANAGER           GENERAL MANAGER            GENERAL MANAGER           GENERAL MANAGER           G   DEPUTY M
EXTENSION              NING & STATISTICS          ADMINISTRATION               RESEARCH                  ACCOUNTS              GEERLAND USE
3 DIVISIONS               3 DIVISIONS               4 DIVISIONS                4 DIVISIONS               5 DIVISiONS               5 DIVISIONS
EXTENSION                   STATE FARMS              CO-ORDINATION             RESEARCH PLANS           RINANCIAL                   PLANS
CEREAL, OIROCSUPPLYS
OTHER CROPS                 DISTRIBUTI ON            ADMINISTRATION            CENTRAL FARMS            BUDGET                      ADMINISTRATION
INDUSTRIAL CROPS            STATISTICS &             SUPPLY                    TRAINING                 TREASURY                    ACCOUNTS
PLANS
GENERAL                   SEED FARMS               STATEMENTS & AUDIT          STATISTICS
CONSOLI DATED
ACCOUNTS,                   OPERATIONS
STATEMENTS &
BALANCE SHEETS
World Bank-8347(R)
Ii!



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT (ID) ORGANIZATION
UIRECTOR GENERAL
MAINTENANCE GIVISON               M AINTENANCE GIVISION              MAINTENANCE DIVISION              MAINTENANCE GIVISIEN            PLANNING * DEIGN DIVIS EN           MAINTENANCE DIVISION          l   CONSRUCTION DIVISION              CONSTRUCTION DIVISION              NIECRANICAL DIVISION
fSAGAINGI                    IMANDALAY)                            MiElhTILAI                         (TAUNGGYI1                        IRANGOONI                          IRANGO.N)         jEIKTILAI                         jEPROMEl                          jRANGOONJ
EXECUTIVE ENGINEEti               EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                 EXECUTlV- ENGINEER                EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                EXECUTIVINEER NEER                ESECUTIVE ENGINEER                 EXECUTIVE ENGtNEER                EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
MAINTENANCE                       MAINTENANCE                       MAINTENANCE                        MAINTENANCE                    PLANNING & ODEIGN                       ri                           K SEE  KHETLAN PROJECT           NORTH NAWIN PROJECT                   MECHANICAL
(MYITKYINAI                       IMANDALAYI                         IMEIXTILAi                        ITAUNGGYII                        IiRANGOONI                         *'E'  DXI                j        MYINGYANI                          IROMEI                           tRANGOONI
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                EXECUTIVE ENGINEE                  EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                 EXECUTIVE ENGINEER|               EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
MAINTENANCE                       MAINTENANCE                         AINTENANCE                       MNANCE ANCE                         SURVeY                          MAiNTENANCE                       YEZIN PROJECT                  NORTH NAWIN PROJECT                   MECHANICAL
ISHAEOG                          IKYAUESEI             .         KEETMAUXTAUNGI                       ILOItKAWI                          UFiKYRI                           11 MAUSIN'              j?INA P1AtNAAl                     |ihIYLAi
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER           |    EXECUTIE ENGINEER                 EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                 EXECUTIVE ENGINEER              EXECUTI                                CUTIVE ENGINEER                EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                                                   EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
MAINTENANCE                       MAiNTENANCE                        MAINTENANCE                  HOPONG VALLEY PROJECT                    SURVEY                          MAINTENANCE                   C.A.NGMAGY: PROJECT                                                      MECHANICAL
IYE-E           j               IMYINGYAN          j                IMINGI           |(             ITAUNGYII          j               IRANGONI                             IPEUE)                          fPYAWBWEI         jPROME)
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                                                                                     EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
MU VALLEY PROJECT                    MAINTENANCE                                                                                            WORKSHOI
RANGOONI                         IRANGOONI                                                                                             (RANGOGN)
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                                                                                     ASSISTANT ENGINEER
SITTANG VALLEY PROJECT                 MAINTENANCE                                                                                              STORES
(RANGOON]         jAKYABI                                                                                                                RANGOON
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
CONSTRUCTION
- (MOULMEINI                                                                                           W    .-     6R



ANNEX I 1
Page 1
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Costs
Small Pum Irrigation (4 in Diesel Pum ps)
1.        Fuel Cost
(a) For a low lift pump, fuel consumption is about 3.5 imperial
gallons of high speed idesel oil (HSD) per 12 working hours,
based on field tests.
Estimated price of HSD    = K 3.60/gal -
. . Cost of fuel pev hour = K 3.60 x 3.5
12
K 1.05
(b)  For a hligh lift pump, fuel consumption is about 5.5 gallons
of HSD per 12 working hours.
. . Cost of fuel per hour = K 3.60 x 5.5
12
K-.65
2.         Se            Oil (Lubricant)
(a)  Three gallons of lubricant are required for each 500 working
hours of pump.
Estimated price of lubricant   =   K 21.6/gal
.Cost of lubrication oil per hour =    K 3 x 21.6
500
=   K.13
3.        Cost of Grease
(a)  For each 500 working hours one pound of grease is used
Estimated price of grease  - K 3.80/lb -f
Cost of grease per hour = K 3.80; = K 0.01
500
1/   Estimated price for fuel, lubricant and grease is taken as three times
the local price prevailing in 1973. These prices correspond to US$0.36
per gal for HSD, US$2.16 per gal for lubricating oil and US$0.38 per
lb for grease, at the shadow exchange rate of K 10.0 = US$1.00.



ANNEX I1
Page 2
4.        H4aintenance Cost
A mechanic with salary of K 150 per month can supervise maintenance
of 20 pump sets. The mechanic works about 24 days per month at 6 hours per
day on an average.
*   Cost of maintenance per hour  -     50; = K 0.05
5.        Repair Cost
During its lifetime, a pumnp set needs on average four minor repairs
and an overhaul. Material and labor costs of these repairs are aout K
900V
*   Cost of repair per hour  = K 900 ; = K 0.14
6,500
6.        Total O&M Costs
(a)  Total O&M costs for low lift pump  = K 1.05 + 0.13 + 0.01 + 0.05
+ 0.14
= K 1.38/hours; say K 1.4/hour
(b)  Total O&M costs for high lift pump = K 1.65 + 0.13 + 0.01 + 0.05
+ 0.14
= K 1.98/hour = say K 2.0/hour
7.        Operator
A farmer looks after his pump for about one half to one hour per
day on a pumping day, depending or. the number of pumping hours. The
remaining time he would tend to his field and crops. The farmer's labor
tinme for irrigation has been includ2d in the estimites of crop production
costs (Annex 15) and therefore is not included in the above calculation of
O&WI cost.
8.        No. of hlours to deliver one ac/ft of water
One ac ft                       = 271,320 gal
A 4" low lift pump car, deliver  =  300 gal/min
=  18,000 gal/hr
.- . o. of hours to deliver one ac ft = 271,320/18,000 = 15 hours
(low lift pump)
A 4" high lift punp can deliver  = 230 gal/mmin   13,800 gal/hr
..o. of hours to deliver one ac ft     271,320/13,500  = 19.7 hours
(high lift pumip)



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3
9.        0&M Costs Per Acre in Lower Burma - Alternative I
Each pump (low lift) commands 30 acres
Crop Inteit_        Area     Pumpin  Req. /a      PImae
(%)           (ac)         (in)              (ac-ft)
Jute                  30            9.0           40               30.0
Paddy-HYV             30            9.0           12.5              9.4
Paddy-local           32            9.6           12                9.6
Groundnut              5            1.5           40                5.0
Pulses                 5            1.5           36                4.5
Paddy-local           36           10.8           14               12.6
Vegetables             2            0.6           31                1.6
Total           140           42.0                            72.7
No. of pumping hours      =  72.7 x 15
= 1,090
Life of pump              =  6,500/1,090 l
-= 6.0years
O&M cost per acre         =  1,090 x 1.4
30
=  K 50.9  s
/a   =  From Annex 6, Table 1.
/b   =  Life of a pump set (incl. diesel engine) is 6,500 hours.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
10.       O&M Costs per Acre in Lower Burma - Alternative II
Each pump (low lift) commands 30 acres
CrCop Intensity                  Area       Pt.ping Req./     Pumpage
(%)             (ac)            (in)           (ac-ft)
Paddy-HYV          30               9.0             51           38.3
Paddy-HYV          30              9..0            12.5           9.4
Paddy-local        32               9.6             12            9.6
Groundnut           5               1.5            40             5.0
Pulses              5               1.5            36             4.5
Paddv-local        36              10.8            14            12.6
Vegetable           2              0.6             31             1.6
Total        140              42.0                          81.0
No. of pumping hours     =  81.0 x 15
- 1,215
/b
Life of pump             =  6,500/1,215 /
= 5.4 years; use 5 years
O&M cost per acre        = K 1,215 x 1.4
30
= K 56.7 say K 57
/a   From Annex 6, Table 1.
/b   Life of a pump set (including diesel engine) is estimated at 6,500 hours.



AiNNEX I
Page 5
11.       O&M Costs per Acre in Upp Dr Burma
Each pump (high lift) commands 27 acres
Crop         Crop Intensity    Area         Pumping Req.-/    Pumpage
(%)           (ac)             (in)          (ac-ft)
Cotton               30            8.1             35.5           24.0
Paddy-hEYV           30            8.1             30             20.3
Paddy-local          30            8.1             34             23.0
Paddy-local          14            3.8             35             11.1
Groundnut            10            2.7             38              8.6
Pulses                4            1.1             34              3.1
Vegetables            2            0.5             21              0.9
Total          120           32.4                            91.0
No. of pumping hours     =  91.0 x 19.7
= 1,793
Life of pump             =  6,500/1,793 /b
= 4 years
O&M cost per acre        = K 1, 793 x 2.0
27
K 132.8 say K 133
/a   From Annex 6 , Table 2.
/b   Life of a pump set (including diesel engine) is estimated at 6,500 hours.
Minor Flood Embankments
12.       The (O&M cost.- of these small embankments have been computed, based
on the projected salary and wage scale of officers and workmen of ID,
depreciation of maintenance equipment and implements. They would amount to
about K 7.0 per ac of land protected per year. This rate is about 1.75
times the current O&M rate the ID receives from the GOB recurrent budget
(K 4 per ac per year), and is considered adequate and reasonable.



ANNEX 12
Page   1
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Yields and Production of Crops
Presentt Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
1.        Small Pump Irrigation, Lower Burma. At present during the wet
season in Lower Burma there is virtually no alternative to paddy, which
covers 100% of the sub-project areas. Double cropping without irrigation
is only possible if short duration (145 days) HYV paddy is grown. However,
these varieties are intolerant to late season drought and must be trans-
planted by August, which is possible only on the higher ground along the
river banks because of slow flood recession further inland. Unfortunately,
these areas are limited in size and largely occupied by villages, gardens
and fruit trees . It is estimated that about 15% of the sub-project areas
could be used for HYV without irrigation, but HYV are presently grown on
only about 5% of the area, with yields averaging 2,600 lb/ac. After
harvest of HYV paddy in October, groundnuts and pulses can be planted in
November and grown on residual soil moisture with harvest in March. Yields
average 700 and 600 lb/ac, respectively. Local, medium and long duration
(150-200 days) paddy varieties which now cover 95% of the area are more
tolerant to flooding and late transplanting, but the vegetative period
lasts beyond the end of the monsoon rains and shortage of water during flower-
ing leads to low l.telds, averaging 1,600 lb/ac. Late harvest in December
and January prevents growing a second crop in the dry season. Total production
from the sub-project areas is presently about 200,000 tons of paddy and
4,000 tons of oilseeds and pulses, with a total net value of about K 150 mil-
lion (US$15 million) without accounting for labor costs (Tables 1 and 2).
2.        Small Pump Irrigation, Upper Burma. In the sub-project areas of
Upper Burma, paddy is at,'o the most important crop. However, with rainfall
of 30-35 inches or less per year, less evenly distributed during the monsoon
period, cropping intensity without irrigation is only 70%, only local
varieties are grown and yields are much lower then in the delta, averaging
1,200 lb/ac. Groundnuts (10%) and pulses (4%) are also grown during the
wet season, with average yields of 600 and 500 lb/ac, respectively. Without
irrigation only one crop is possible, and overall cropping intensity is only
84%. Total production from the sub-project areas is presently about 10,000
tons of paddy and 1,000 tons of groundnuts and pulses, with a total net
value of about K 8 million (US$800,000), without accounting for labor costs
(Tables 1 and 2).
3.        Minor Embankments. At present the minor enbankments sub-project
areas are similar to the lower-lying parts of the small pump irrigation
sub-project areas of Lower Burma. Short duration paddy varieties cannot
be grown because of late flood recession, and double cropping is impossible.
Even later transplanting or re-transplanting of local varieties after flood



ANNEX 12
Page 2
damage is common, and yields are consequently lower, averaging 1,000 lb/ac.
Total production from the sub-project areas is about 10,000 tons of paddy,
with net value of about K 7 million (US$700,000), without accounting for
labor costs (Tables 1 and 2).
Future Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
4.        WJitho:it the Project. In the future without the project, cultiva-
tion practices in the sub-project areas would remain essentially the same
as at present. Minor improvements in techniques and use of inputs are
expect:ed, resulting in slightly higher yields (assumed increase of about 1%
per year for all crops), and increased use of HYV paddy where flooding con-
ditions permit (Tables 1 and 3).
5.        Sma1l Pump Irrigation, Lower Burma. The main benefit of pump
irrigation would be to allow the cultivation of pre-monsoon jute, which
would cover 30% of the total area on average. Average yield at full develop-
ment is estimated to be 1,000 lb/ac, about 40% higher than present average
yield of 700 lb/ac due to improved varieties and increased use of nitrogen.
Alternatively, farmers could choose to grow HYV paddy in the dry season on
up to 30% of the total area, depending on relative farm-gate prices and
production costs of jute and paddy. Average yield of dry season H.YV paddy
is assumed to be 3,200 lb/ac, based on yields presently experienced in
areas served by pump irrigation. In addition, the pumps would enable
expansion of the areas under wet season HYV paddy through later transplanting
and supplementary irrigation after the monsoon, similar expansion of the
area under groundnuts and pulses with supplementary irrigation and harvest
in April, and an increase in all yields by making up for drought during the
late vegetative periods. It is further assumed that 2% of present paddy
land would be converted to higher value vegetable cultivation with irrigation,
witn average yields of 4,000 lb/ac. Overall cropping intensity would increase
from 106% to 140%, and use of complementary inputs, particularly fertilizer,
would improve (Annex 2 and 3). Total production from the sub-project areas
would be 37,000 tons of jute anid 270,000 tons of paddy (alternatively 400,000
tons of paddy), plus 22,000 tons of other crops, with a net value of about
K 300 million (US$30 million), an increase of K 130 million (US$13 million)
or 75% from future conditions without the project (Tables 1, 4 and Figure 1).
6.        Small Pump Irrigation, Upper Burma. In Upper Burma, pump irriga-
tion would allow double cropping of medium staple (SM 1-1/16 in) cotton
after monsoon IIYV paddy on 30% of the land, with average yield assumed to be
900 lb/ac for seed cotton and 2,600 lb/ac for HYV paddy. For better pest
control, a three year rotation would be followed. In the first year, cotton
would be grown followed by IiYV paddy (30%), in the second year paddy only
(30%) and in the third year paddy followed by groundnuts and pulses (14%).
Pump irrigation along with increased use of complementary inputs would also
increase the yield of all crops and permit year-round cultivation of vege-
tables on an assumed 2% of the land.  Overall cropping intensity would increase
fro. 84%, to 120%. Total production from the sub-project areas would
increase to 20,000 tons of paddy, 3,000 tons of seed cotton and 2,500 tons
of othier crops, with a net value of K 25 million (US$2.5 million), an.



ANNEX 1 2
Page 3
increase of K 16 million (US$1.6 million) or 190% from future conditions
without the project (Tables 1, 4 and Figure 1).
7.        Minor Flood Embankments. Cropping pattern and yields for the myinor
flood embankments sub-project would be identical to the small pump irrigation
sub-project in future without irrigation.  The embankments would prevent
annual flooding from streams, therefore allowing early transplanting of HYV
paddy on 15% of the area, later transplanting of local varieties on 85% and
dry season second cropping of groundnuts and pulses on 6%, for an overall
cropping intensity of 106%. Total production would be about 20,000 tons
of paddy and 500 tons of groundnuts and pulses, with a net value of K 14
million (US$1.4 million), ani increase of K 6 million (US$600,000) or 75% from
future conditions without the project (Tables 1, 4 and Figure 1).
Phasing of Project Benefits
8.        For both the small pump irrigation and the minor flood embankments
sub-projects, similar assumptions have been made concerning the rate of
project development. Extension efforts have already begun in these areas
for HYV paddy and jute or cotton as appropriate, and it is therefore expected
that adoption of new plant varieties and farm management techniques would
be rapid. Expected yields at full development are modest, based c-. yields
actually realized under similar conditions in Burma; the major coi;traint
to their achievement is water control, not major improvements in other
inputs on supporting services. It was therefore assumed that yields for all
crops would begin to increase from "without project" levels as soon as pumps
are available in the field, or as soon as lands are protected by embankments,
and would reach full development levels after four years. Because the sale
of pumps to groups of farmers and cooperatives, and the construction of
embankments and the Duntape drain would be Dhased over four years, phasing
of benefits for the sub-projects as a whole would take eight years to full
development. The assumptions made on pumps available and embankments
constructed, areas irrigated or protected, and phasing of benefits are
summarized in Table 5.



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Yield and Production of Crops
Incremental
Net       Cropping Intensity      Gross Sown Area             Yield                 Production            Production
Area       -   -                     ('000 ac)                (lb/ac)                ('000 tons)           ('000 tons)
('000 ac)      l/   - /    l/       p
P-    W-    W-        P    __     __       __                                i
A. Small Pump Irrigation Sub-Project
Lower Burma
Local Paddy                                      95    85    68      256.5 229.5  183.6    1,600   1,700   1,950    186.2   176.9   162.4         -14.5
HYV Paddy                                         5    15   30       13.5   40.5   81.0    2,550   2,750   3,000     15.6    50.5   110.2          59.7
Jute (Alt. I)                                                30                    81.0                    1,000                     36.8          36.8
Dry Season HYV Paddy (Alt. II)                              (30)                   (81.0)                  3,200                    129.3         129.3
Groundnut                                         2    3      5       5.4    8.1   13.5      700     800   1,000      1.9     3.2     6.8           3.6
Pulses                                            3     3     5       8.1    8.1   13.5      600     600     900      2.2     2.2     5.5           3.3
Vegetables                                                    2                     5.4                    4,000                      9.8           9.8
TOTAL                             270.0      105   106   140     283.5 286.2 378.0
Upper Burma
Local Paddy                                      70    70   44       18.9   18.9   11.9    1,150   1,250   1,950      9.9    10.7    10.5          -0.2
HYV Paddy                                                    30                     8.1                    2,600                      9.6           9.6
Cotton                                                       30                     8.1                      900                      3.3           3.3
Groundnut                                        10    10    10        2.7    2.7   2.7      600     700   1,000      0.7     0.9     1,2           0.3
Pulses                                            4    4     4         1.1    1.1   1.1      500     600     900      0.2.    0.3     0.4           0.1
Vegetables                                                    2                      0.5                   4,000                      0.9           0.9
TOTAL                              27.0       84    84   120       22.7   22.7  32.4
B. Minor Flood Embanlments Sub-Project
Lower Burma
Local Paddy                                     100   100    85       23.0   23.0   19.6    1,000   1,130  1,700     10.4    11,5    15.1           3.6
HYV Paddy                                                    15                     3.4                     2,750                     4.2           4.2
Groundnut                                                     3                      0.7                      800                     0.3           0.3
Pulses                                                        3                      0.7                     600                      0.2           0.2
TOTAL                              23.0      100   100   106      23.0   23.0   24.4
1/ P = present; W     future without project; W = future with project.                                                                                   .
I' H



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Value of Production from the Project Areas at Present
Gross Value                Net Value        Net Return
Sown                Farm-Gate       of        Production      of               from
Area       Yield      Price     Production      Costs 2-J  Production 3!   Project Area -
('000 ac)   (lb/ac)    (K/ton)    --------------- (K/ac) ---------------      (K million)
A. Small Pump Irrigation Sub-Project
Lower Burma
Local Paddy                         256.5      1,600        816         592           65          527             131.2
HYV Paddy                            13.5      2,550        816         944          1 55         789              10.7
Groundnut                             5.4        700      1,300        413           150          263               1.4
Pulses                                8.1        600      1,400        381            25          356               2.9
Sub-Total                         283.5                                                                         146.2
Upper Burma
Local Paddy                          18.9      1,150        816         426           55          371               7.0
Groundnut                             2.7        600      1,300         354          160          194               0.5
Pulses                                1.1        500      1,400         317           35          282               0.3
Sub-Total                         22.7                                                                           7.8
Total for sub-project               400.7                                                                          154.0
B. Minor Flood Embankments Sub-Project
Lower Burma
Local Paddy = Total                  23.0      1,000      816           370            55         315                7.2
Total for Project (A+B)                                                                                          161.2
/ At economic prices.    See Annex 14.
2/ From Annex 15, Table 1-4,o   Excludes the costs of labor.
3! Without accounting for labor costs.



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Value of Production from the Project Areas in Future Without Project -
Gross Value                Net Value       Net Return
Svwn                Farm-Gate       of        Producti'       of               from
Area       Yield      Price     Production      Costs -/   Production -     Project Area 3/
('000 ac)   (lb/ac)    (K/ton)   --------------- (K/ac) --------------        (K million)
A. Small Pump Irrigation Sub-Project
Lower Burma
Local Paddy                         229.5      1,700        816          629           90         539               123.7
HYV Paddy                            40.5      2,750        816        1,018          170         848                34.3
Groundnut                             8.1        800      1,300          472          170         302                 2.4
Pulses                                8.1        600      1,400          381           30         351                2.8
Sub-Total                        286.2                                                                           L63.2
Upper Burma
Local Paddy                          18.9      1,250        816          463           60         403                 7.6
Groundnut                             2.7        700      1,300          413          175         238                 0.6
Pulses                                1.1        600      1,400          381           40         341                 0.4
Sub-Total                         22.7                                                                             8.6
Total for Sub-Project            404.3                                                                           171.8
B. Minor Flood Embankments Sub-Project
Lower Burma
Local Paddy = Total                  23.0       1,100        816          407           60         347                8.0
Total for Project (A+B)                                                                                          179.8
1/ At economic prices. See Annex 14.
2/ From Annex 15, Table 1-4.    Excludes the costs of labor.
mX
3/ Without accounting for labor costs.                                                                                                 (



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Value of Production from the Project Areas in Future with Project at Full Development
Gross Value                Net Value        Net Return       Incremental
Sown                 Farm-Gate       of        Production      of               from          Net- Retur7
Area        Yield      Price     Production      Costs 2/   Production 3/   Project Area       (W -W)'V
('000 ac)    (lb/ac)    (K/ton)  --------------- (K/ac) --------------       (K nmillion)       (K million)
A. Small Pump Irrigation Sub-Project
Lower Burma
Local Paddy                           183.6       1,950        816          722        140          582              106.9
HYV Paddy                              81.0       3,000        816        1,110        210          goo               72.9
Jute (Alt. I)                          81.0       1,000      2,070          939        110          829               67.1
Dry Season HYV Paddy (Alt. II)        (81.0)      3,200        816       1,184         235          949              (76.9)
Grounidnut                             13.5       1,000      1,300          590        235          355                4.8
Pulses                                 13.5         900      1,400         571          80          491                6.6
Vegetables                              5.4       4,000      1,800       3,265         435        2,830               15.3
Sub-Total                          378.0                                                                          273.6  ,          110.4
(378.0) 4/                                                                     (283.4) 4         (120.2)
Upper Burma
Local Paddy                            11.9       1,950        816          722        140          582                6.9
'{V' Paddy                              8.1       2,600        816          962        205          757                6.1
Cotton      Y                           8.1         900      3,005       1,227         290          937                7.6
Groundnut                               2.7       1,000      1,300          590        235          355                1.0
Pulses                                  1.1         900      1,400          571         80          491                0.5
Vegetables                              0.5       4,000      1,800       3,265         435        2,83Q                1.4
Sub-Total                           32.4                                                                           23.5              14.9
Total for Sub-Project                                                                                             297.1             125.3
(~-)              (135 - 1)
B. Minor Flood Embankments Sub-Project
Lower Burma
Local Paddy                           19.6       1,700        816          629          90          539               10.6
HYV Paddy                              3.4       2,750        816        1,018         170          848                2.9
Groundaut                               .7         800      1,300          472         170          302                0.2
Pulses                                  .7         600      1,400          381          30          351                0.2
Total for Sub-Project             24.4                                                                             13.9               5.9
Total for Project (A+B)                                                                                           311.0             131.2
(320.8)           (141.0)
1/ At economic prices. See Annex 14.
2/   From Annex 15, Tables 1-4. Excludes the costs of labor and irrigation.
3/   Withouit accounting for labor and irrigation costs.                                                                                                 i X
4/   Alternative II (Dry season HYV paddy instead of Jute in small pump irrigation sub-project, Lower Burma).



A1WEX 1-2
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Phasing of Project Benefits
Gross         Ineremaental Net
No. of       (So-wn)       Benefits as ,
Pumps       Irrigated     of Full Develop-
A. S%ALL PUP IURRIGATION      in Use        Area         mnent Benefits
Lower Burna
1974                     0             0               0
1975                 1,000        29,400              5
1976                  3,500      126,000              15
1977                 7,p000      270,900              40
1978                 8,00(0      373,800              65
1979                 9,0000      378,.000             85
1980                 9,000       378,0o0              95
19l                 9,000       378, O0             98
1982-93              9,000       378,000             100
Upper Burma
1974                     0             0               0
1975                     0             0               0
1976                   500        12,150              15
1977                 1 ,000       28,350              40
1978                 1,9000       32,400              65
1979                 1, 000       32,400              85
1980                  1,000       32,400              95
1981                  1,000       32,400              98
1982-93               1,000       32,400             100
Benefits as % of
B. MINOR FLOOD E4BANKMENTS      Protec ted Area     Fu3l Develgment
1974                           0                   0
1975                           0                   0
1976                           0                   0
1977                      10,000                  20
1978                      23,Z000                 50
1979                      23,000                  80
1980                      23,000                  95
1981                      23, 000                 98
1982-2003                 23,000                 100



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
PROPOSED CROPPING PATTERN
1 SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION SUB - PROJECT
1  1   . -CROPPING
JAN     FEB    MAR     APR    MAY     JUN     JUL    AUG     SEP     OCT    NOV     DEC   INTENSITY
I.
LOWER BURMA: ALTERNATIVE I
LP                                            H          R
JUTE                        NPLP - I                                       N+LP                                H           30
PADDY (HYV)                                                          N+LP UhuawuI        -      -              IIi         30
PADDY (LOCAL)                                                     *iuuu*uUl 1                               m   H          32
GROUNDNUT                      -      -            -   O    H                                                   LPImmhm      5
PULSES                                              BIMINI H         N+LP                                       LPisuuu     5
PADDY ONLY (LOCAL)                                                                                           Mal** 1 u1  slehll H  36
VEGETABLES                                         mmici mmm H                                    LPIUI Niii                2
140
LOWER BURMA: ALTERNATIVE il
N+LP
PADDY )HYV)                 lhi1i*    -i-                  -       lUSH     N+LP                                            30
PADDY (H) V)                                                         N+LP                                mimin N.H         30
PADDY (LOCAL)                                                     illill                     11          mmiii i1 H         32
GROUNDNUT                                               ii NIH                                                  LPIlEum
PULSES                                               umhhIH         N+LP                                        LPimmum     5
PADDY ONLY (LOCAL)                                                Uflhizfflil  t                                           -36
VEGETABLES                 I-1-                    mmi. |1im H                                                              2    |
140
UPPER BURMA
COTTON                       LPiuRmIM                            -iulE mNmmNi+                                              30
PADDY (HVV)                11l11H                                         N+LP                                             30
PADDY ONLY (LOCAL)                                               N+LP 11111**  tg1 -          -|1                           30
PADDY (,LOCAL)                                                                                                              1 4
GROUNDNUT                                                 H                                                   LP            10
PULSES                                       -      miii H                                  LP                LP            4
VEGETABLES                                 PllmIiUml H                                                                      2
120
2 MINOR FLOOD EMBANKMENT SUB -PROJECT
CROPPING
JAN     FEB    MAR     APR    MAY      JUN    JUL     AUG     SEP    OCT     NOV     DEC  INTENSITY
N+LP                              H
PADDY (HYV)                                                      immummmumm.                      mii i                     15
G9OUNDNUT                                    1iiii H                                                  LP ii                  3
PULSES                                     1E11Hi|                  N+LP                              LPF mmmm               3
PADDY ONLY (LOCAL)                                                . m. mm.i imNN                               U *iEEJi     85
l   l   l   ll          l               l      ll              1  106
N = Nursery, LP = Land Preparation, H = Harvest, R = Retting (jute).                      World Bank-8290(R)



ANNEX 13
Page 1
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Farm. Labor Analysis
Labor Supply
1.        There are no comprehensive, reliable statistics on population
and labor force in the project areas. The National census of 1973--the
first since 1931--should shed considerable light on the demographic situa-
tion when it is published. In the meantime, this analysis is based on
information supplied by the Central Statistics and Economics Department
(CSED), the Settlement and Land Records Department and nemerous field
interviews.
2.        According to the available information, the average farm family
in Burma includes six people, of whom two would normally be available for
full time farm work. Assuming 240 working days per year, this amounts to
an average of 480 man-days per farm family per year. In months of peak
agricultural activity, the monthly total could be expected to increase by
as much as 50% to 60 man-days per month--say 2.5 people on average for
24 days--for one or two months if needed.
3.        In addition to farm family labor, a large supply of seasonal
labor is available for hire locally. It is estimated that 25 to 30% of
the rural population earns a major share of their incomes working for others,
although many of these agricultural laborers may work some 1and of their
own. Information about the completely landless is fragmentary. It appears
that landless '~-milies are more prevalent in Lower Burma, but many of these
are full time fishermen and producers of salt from sea water, not farmers.
Complete landlessness is less common in Upper Burma, which has traditionally
been a subsistence farming area and which offers fewer alternative employ-
ment opportunities. However, Upper Burma contains more land holdings
smaller than 2 ac, considered the minimum size to provide subsistence for
a family of six, so the supply of hired labor is plentiful. It is assumed
that for both Lower and Upper Burma 30% of the rural families supply one
adult equivalent on average as a seasonal agricultural laborer.
4.        The small pump irrigation sub-project areas in Lower Burma coni-
tain about 45,000 farm families on holdings which are typically 6 ac or
larger. Following the assumptions of para 2, these families supply about
21.6 million man-days of family labor per year, and up to 2.7 million man-
days per month in peak months. Following the assumptions of para 3, another
20,000 families provide an additional 500,000 man-days of hired labor in
peak months, for a total of up to 3.2 million man-days. Assuming a farm
labor force growth rate of 2.4% per year, less than the estimated national
average of 2.8%, the farm family labor force would be about 26 million
man-days per year at project full development in 1982, while the peak



ANNEX 13
Page 2
mo-nthly labor supply (family plus hired) would increase to about 3.9 million
man-days.
Sr      1 Similarly, the small pump irrigation sub-project areas in Upper
Burma contain about 5,000 farm families w.hich would supply zabout 2.4 million
man-days of labor annually and up to 300,000 man-days per month in peak
moaChs.  Another 2,000 families could supply 50,000 additional man-days of
hiree labor in neak months for a total of 350,000. At full development
the annual family labor supply would be about 2.9 million msn-days and the
mon thly peak supply, 425,000..
6.        The minor flood embankment sub-project areas contain about 4,000
farm families which would supply about 1.9 million man-days of labor
annually, and up to 240,000 man-days in peak months. Another 1,600 families
could supply 40,000 additional man-days of labor in peak months for a total
of 280,000. At project full development the annual family labor supply
would be about 2.3 million man-days and the peak monthly supply, 340,000.
7.        In bothl Lower and Upper Burma, labor mobility is very low, so
it is not expected that people would travel long distances to take advantage
of seasonal employment opportunities created by the project. In the case
of the small pump irrigation sub-project, however, the project areas are
limited to several hundred yards from streams, and would be surrounded by
land holdings belonging to the same villages but not served by pumps. It
is therefore expected that, if peak seasonal labor demand exceeds the supply
available within the project areas,. a sufficient additional supply could be
attracted from the immediately adjacent areas.
Labor Demand
S.        Estimates of average monthly labor requirements for various crops
are given in Annex 15, Tables 6, 7 and 8. Estimates of total and incremental
annual labor requirements are given in Table 1 of this Annex,. while total
monthly requirements are given in Tables 2, 3 and 4.
9.        For the small pump irrigation sub-project in Lower Burma, the
present annual labor requirement is about 11 million man-days, or about half
the supply of family labor. Hlowever, peak monthly demand in July and
December fully utilizes the available labor supply including hired labor.
Dry season demand for farm labor from January through May is very small.
However, this is the season when salt production and fishing are most
active, and many farmers engage in these activities part time, as well as
repairing their houses and implements in preparation for the next monsoon.
At full developnment, the total labor requirement is estimated to be about
24 million man-days per year if jute is grbwn as a dry season crop, or 22
million man-days if HYV paddy is grown. Without the project less than 12
million man-days, or less than half the available family labor supply would
be required, leaving considerable unemployment throughout most of the year.
With the project the employment- situation in the sub-project areas would
be much better; the anriual requirement would absorb almost the whole family
labor supply, there would be full employment of family arnd hired labor in
four months, if dry season jute is groxn and three months if IHYV p.ddy is



Ah NEX 1 3
Page 3
grown, and seasonal fluctuations would be reduced. Some seasonal hired
labor would have to be attracted from the surrounding, non-project areas
for jute retting and wet season paddy harvest (Table 2).
10.       For the small pump irrigation project in Upper Burma, the present
annual labor requirement is about 800,000 man-days, or only about one-third
of the available family labor supply. As in Lower Burma, however, peak
monthly demand in July and December uses more of the available labor supply,
including some hired labor though employment is not so full as in Lower
Burma.  Again dry season farm labor demand is very low, and there is little
alternative employment available. At full development, the total labor
requirement is estimated to be about 2.0 million man-days, or about 70%
of family labor supply with the project, but only about 900,000 man-days
without the project. With the project seasonal fluctuations would be
reduced from present or future without project conditions, though unemploy-
ment would be a major problem even in peak seasons if population grows as
projected (Table 3).
11.       Present conditions in the minor flood embankment sub-project areas
are typical of the poorer, flooded parts of Lower Burma, exhibiting on-farm
employment of less than half the available family labor force on an annual
basis, with full or near full employment including some hired labor in
June, July and December. Farm employment during the dry season is practically
nil. With the project, some oilseeds and pulses could be grown during the
dry season, and improved yields from both hYV and local varieties of paddy
would raise labor requirements, particularly for harvesting. by about 20%
above wqithout project conditions. Underemployment of farm labor would,
however, continue to be the rule throughout most of the year.
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
12.       Detailed information on wages actually paid in the project areas
is limited. Most work is done by unpaid family labor. For hired labor,
arrangements are frequently on a traditional seasonal basis, sometimes on
a piecework basis, while payment is sometimes in kind and sometimes includes
meals and cigars, making comparisons difficult. Information on off-farm
employment is even more fragmentary. The wage which is actually paid for
unskilled hired labor in peak agricultural seasons is about K 4 per man-day,
which is assumed to reflect the opportunity cost of such labor to the
economy at such times. In months of high rural unemployment, which
characterize most of the year, the oppQrtunity cost of labor would be much
lower. The economic cost of farm labor was therefore estimated by taking
account of the extreme seasonal fluctuations in labor demand.
13.       It is postulated that the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor
in each project area can be approximated by an S-shaped curve (Figures 1,
2 and 3). The marginal opportunity cost is positive at all levels of
labor demand and increases as more labor is employed in farm work. The
increase is slow initially, reflecting the scarcity of alterrnative' product-
ive employment, but increases more rapidly as the labor supply becomes
fully used. At the employment level corresponding to full employment of



ANNEX 13
Page 4
available family labor in the project areas, the marginal opportunity cost
is assuvmed equal to the market wage rate. Although the rural labor force
in Burma is not considered highly mobile, the project areas are scattered
throughout the delta and parts of Upper Burma and are surrounded by similar
areas which would not receive project improvements. It is expected that
at K 4 per man-day large nunmbers of laborers would be attracted to the
project areas from near-by areas.
14.       It is reasonable to approximate the S-shaped curve by three
straight line segments. Two points determine the position of each curve.
Point A indicates the minimum opportunity cost of farm labor which is
estimated to be K 2.0 per man-day, equal to K 1.5 as the economic value of
alternative employment (fishing and salt production in Lower Burma and
house repairs, odd jobs, etc. in all areas) plus K 0.5 to supply the
additional nutritional requirements of more strenuous farm work with the
project. Point B indicates that a full employment of family labor, the
opportunity cost would equal the market wage. The horizontal segment to
the right of Point B indicates that at K 4.0 per man-day large numbers of
hired laborers would be available from within and outside the project areas.
15.       The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from
each curve at the corresponding level of labor demand. The total economic
cost of farm labor is then the a-ea under each curve up to that level of
emplnyment. Computed this way, the economic cost of labor would be K 64
million with the small pump irrigation sub-proipct in Lower Burma at full
development with jute as a dry season crop (K 58 million with HYV paddy
as a dry season cron) and K 28 million without the project. or an incre-
mental cost of K 36 million (K 28 million) (Table 5). This would be
equivalent to pricing the incremental employment of 12.6 million (10.6
million) man-days at K 2.9 (K 2.6) per man-day, or 72% (65%) of the full
employment market wage in the sub-project areas. Similarly, for the small
pumps in Upper Burma, the economic cost of farm labor would be equivalent
to priring the incremental employment of 1 million man-days at K 2.3 per
man-day, or 58% of the full employment market wage (Table 5). For the
minor embankments, the economic cost would be equivalent to pricing the
incremental employment of 200,000 man-days at K 2.3 per man-day, or 58% of
the full employment market wage (Table 6).



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Total and Incremental Annual Labor Requirements
Incremental
Unit Labor Requirements                Area                Total Labor Requirements            Labor
(man-days/ac)                  ('000 ac)                    ('000 man-days)            Requirement
p-                 W-/         p        W        W          P         W         W             (W-W)
A. Small Pump Irrigation
Lower Burma
Local Paddy                      38       40         50        256.5    229.5    183.6       9,747     9,180     9,180              -
RYV Paddy                        48       50         60         13.5     40.5     81.0         648     2,025     4,860           2,835
Jute (Alt. I)                     -        -        100           -       -       81.0         -         -       8,100           8,100
Dry Season HYV Paddy (Alt. II)    -        -        (75)          -       -      (81.0)        -         -      (6,075)         (6,075)
Groundnut                        44       48         60          5.4     8.1      132)         237       389       810            421
Pulses                           27       27         35          8.1     8.1      13.5         219       219       472             253
Vegetables                        -        -        185           -    _          5.4          -         -         999             999
Total                                                        283.5    286.2    378.0      10,851    11,813    24,421          12,608
(22,396) 2.!/   (10,583) 2-
upper Burma
Local Paddy                      35       40         55         18.9     18.9     11.9         661       756       654            -102
HYV Paddy                         -        -         60           -        -       8.1         -         -         486             486
Cotton                            -        -         65           -        -       8.1         -         -         526             526
Groundnut                        40       40         55          2.7      2.7      2.7         108       108       148              40
Pulses                           35       37         40          1.1      1.1      1.1          38        41        44               3
Vegetables                         -       -        185           -        -       0.5         -         -          92              92
Total                                                         22.7     22.7     32.4         807       905     1,950           1,045
B. Minor Flood Embankments
Local Paddy                       34       35         40        23.0     23.0     19.6          782       805      784             -21
HYV Paddy                          -        -         50          -        -       3.4          -        -         170             170
Groundnut                          -        -         48          -        -       0.7          -         -         34              34
Pulses                             -        -         27                 -- -      0.7          -         -          19              19
23.0     23.0     24.4          782       805     1,007             202
1/ P    present;  W = future without project;  W = Futuie v-ih.-project.
21  Dry season HYV paddy alternative 2.
I-  I-.



BUR4A
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Total Monthly Requirement of Farm Labor
('000 man-days) .1!
A.   SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION               Area        Jan        Feb       Mar      Apr       May        June       July       A         Sept      Oct        Nov        Dec        Total
(ac)
Lower Burma
Local                          256,500          -         -         -       -         -        2,052      2,822        770       513       513        256      2,822       9,747
w      229,500          -        -         -        -         -        1,836      2,524        688       459       459        459      2,754       9,180
W      183,600          -        -         -        -         -        1,836      2,203        734       551       734        551      2,570       9,180
HYV Paddy               P       13,500          -         -         -       -         -          108        148         40       108       243        -          -            648
w       40,500          -        -         -        -         -          324        446        122       324       810        -          -         2,025
W       81,000          -         -        -        -         -          -          810        972       324       324        891      1,539       4,860
Jute (Alt. I)           p         -             -         -                                                                       -         -          -          -          -
W--                              -         -        -         -          -          -          -                                                    --------
W       81,000      1,215        162      729      324        -        1,296      1,296      2,025     1,053       -           -          -        8,100
Dry Season HYV Paddy    P         -             -        -         -        -         -          -           -          -         -         -          -          -          -
(Alt. II)            W         -            -         -         -        -         -          -                                                                          -
W       81,000      1,215      1,458      243      405      1,134      1,620        -           -         --                                       6,075
Groundnut               p        5,400          11         11      86       -                                                                          113         16         237
w        8,100         16         16      162       -         -          -          -           -                              170         24         389
w       13,500         54         54       27      202        122        -           -          -         -         -          -          351         810
Pulses                  p        8,100           3          3       97      -         -           -          -          -    *              -          113          2         219
W        8,100          3           3      97       -         -          -           -          -         -         -          113          2         219
W       13,500         14         14       14      243        -          -           -          -         -         -          -          189         472
Vegetables              p          -            -         --                                                -                                                     -
W         -             -         -        -        -         -          -           -          -         -         -          -          --
W        5,400        135        108       27       54         81        -           -          -         -         324        135        135         999
TOTAL                p      283,500         14          14     183       -                  2,160      2,970         810       621       756        482      2,840      10,851
W      286,200          19         19     259       -         -        2,160      2,970         810       783     1,269        742      2,780      11,813
Alternative I      W      378,000      1,418        338      797      823        203      3,132      4,309      3,731     1,928     1,382       1,577      4,784      24,421
Alternative II     W     (378,000)    (1,418)    (1,634)    (311)    (904)    (1,337)    (3,456)    (3,013)     (1,706)     (875)  (1,382)     (1,577)    (4,784)    (22,396)
T otals from Table 1.        May not add up due to rounding.
2/ P    Present;    W   Future without project;      W   Future with project.                                                                                                               a,
ax



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PRDJECT
Total Monthly Requirement of Farm Labor
('000 man-days)
A.  SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION          Area      Jan    Feb    Mar     Apr    May     June    July    Aug     Sept    Oct    Nov     Dec    TOTAL -
(ac)
Upper Burma
Local Paddy          P     18,900      -      -      -       -      38     113      208     57      38      38     38    132       661
W      18,900     -      -       -      -      38      113     208      57      57     57     38     189      756
W     11,900      -      -       -      -      12      131     179     48       48     48     60     131      654
HYV Paddy            P       -         -      -      -
w        -        -      -       -      -      -        -       -      -        -      -      -       -       -
W       8,100    170     -       -      -               -       -       89     130     32      32     32      486
Cotton               p        -        -                                                    -       -       -      -      -        -
r -               -      -       -      -      -                -                      -      -       --
W       8,100    146     40      32     73     65       32      89      49      -      -       -      -       526
Groundnut            P      2 700       8      3       3     38     -       -        -      -                      -       57      108
W       2,700      8       3      3     38     -        -       -      -               -      -       57      108
W       2,700     11      11      8     62     -        -       -      -        -      -       -      57      148
Pulses               P      1 ,100      1      1      1      11     -       -        -      -       -       -      -       24       38
W       1,100       1      1      1     13      -       -       -       -       -       -      -      24        41
w       1,100      2      2       2     20     -        -       -       -       -      -       -      18       44
Vegetables           p                   -                   -      -        -       -      -        -      -      -       -
w                -           -      -       -       -       -       -           -      -       -      -
W         500     10       8     8      -      -                -      -        30     12      12     12       92
TOTAL              P     22,700       9      4      4      49     38     113      208     57      38      38     38    213       807
W      22,700      9      4      4      51     38      113     208      57      57     57      38    270      905
W      32,400    339     61    5      155      77     163     268     186     208     92     104    250    1,950
1/  Totals from Table. May not add up due to rounding.
2/ P    Present; W = Future without project;    W = Future with project.                                                                     IDX
'-



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Total Monthly Requirement of Farm Labor
('000 man-days)
B.  MINOR FLOOD EMBANKMENTS             Area      Jan     Feb    Mar     Apr M    ay      June    July     AM      Sept     Oct    Nov     Dec     Total -
(ac)
Lower Burma
Local Paddy             p      23,000                                             184      276      46      46       46      23    161       782
W      23,000      -       -       -       -      -       184      276      46      46      46      23     184       805
W      19,600      -       -       -       -      -       157      235      59      39       39     39     216       784
HYV Paddy                p        -         -      -       -       -       -        -
W                                                                   3- 7    I0      27       68     -       -        170
Groundnut                p                 -       -           -       -       -                            -
W        -         -       -       -       -      -        --               -       --               -       --
W         690      2       2      14       -      -        -        -       -       -        -       14      2        34
Pulses                   p        -         -      -       -       -       -        -        -       -      -        -       -       -        -
W         690      1       -       8       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       10     -         19
TOTAL                 P      23,000      -       -       -       -       -      184      276      46      46       46      23    161       782
T4     23,000      -       -       -       -       -      184      276      46      46       46      23    184       805
W      24,380      3       2      22       -       -      184      272      69      66      107      63    218     1,007
1/ Totals from Table 1. May not add up due to rounding.
2/  P = Present;     W =Future without project;        W = Future with project.
I-a
U,W



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Economic Cost of Farm Labor at Full Project Development
Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jilne   July    Aug    Sept   Oct    Nov    Dec      TOTAL
SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION SUB-PROJECT
Lower Burma
Labor Requirement               WI        1.4    0.3    o.8    0.8    0.2     3.1    4.3    3.7     1.9    1.4    1.6    4.8       24.4
(Million man-days)          WII-J     1.4    1.6    0.3    0.9    1.3     3.5     3.0    1.7     0.9    1.4    1.6    4.8       22.4
w 3/       -      -     0.3     -      -      2.2     3.0    o.8     o.8    1.3   0.7    2.8       11.8
Marginal Opportunity Cost       WI        2.3    2.1    2.2    2.2    2.0     3.7     4.o   4.0     2.5    2.3    2.4    4.0
WII       2.3    2.4    2.1    2.2    2.3     4.o0    3.6    2.4     2.2    2.3   2.4    4.o
(K/man-day)                             -     -     2.1     -      -      2.7     3.6    2.2     2.2    2.3    2.2    3.4
Economic Cost of Farm Labor     WI        3.0    o.6    1.7    1.7    0,4     7-9   12.7   10.3     4.3    3.0    3.5   14.7       63.8
(K Million)                 WII        3.0   3.5    o.6    1.9    2.8     9.5     7.6    3-7     1.9    3.0    3-5   14.7       55-7
w                       o.6     -      -      5.0     7.6    1.7     1.7   2.8     1.5   6-9       27.8
Incremental Economic Cost of    WI-V_     3.0    0.6    1.1   1.7     0.4    2.9     5.1    8.6     2.6    0.2    2.0    7.8       36.0
Farm Labor (-K Million)      WII-W     3.0    3.5     -    1.9    2.8      4.5     -     2.0     0.2    0.2    2.P    7.8       27.9
Upper Burma
Labor Requirement               w ±       339     61     50    155     77     163    268    186     208     92    104    250      1,950
('000 man-days)              W           9      4     4     51     38     113     208     57      57     57     38    270        905
Marginal Opportunity Cost       W         3.8    2.1    2.1    2.4    2.2     2.4     3.1    2.5     2.6   2.2    2.2    2.9
(K/man-day)                  W         2.0   2.0    2.0    2.1    2.1     2.3     2.6    2.1     2.1    2.1    2.1    3.1
Economic Cost of Farm Labor     W         820    120    100    340    160     360     650    420     480   190    220    580      4,440
(K '000)                     W          20     10     10   100     80     240     480    120     120    120     80    650      2,030
Incremental Economic Cost of    W-W       800    110     90    240     80     120     170    300     360    70    140    -70      2,410
Farm Labor (K '000)
WI = Future with project, jute as dry season crop.
WII = Future with project, HYV paddy as dry season crop.
3/ W = Future without project.
W = Future with project.



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Economic Cost of Farm Labor at Full Projeet,t Development
MINOR FLOOD EMBANKMEITS SUB-PROJECT        Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr     May    June    July    Aug    Sept    Oct    Nov    Dec      TOTAL
Labor Requirement ('000 mnan-days)  W      3      2      22       -      -      184     272     69      66    107     63    218      1,007
-      -       -      -      -      184     276     46      46      46    23     184        8o5
Marginal Opportinity Cost           w      2.0     2.0    2.1     -            2.8      3.8    2.2     2.2    2.4    2.2    3.2
(K/man-day)                      w      -          -       -                2.8     3.8    2.2     2.2     2.2    2.1    2.8
Economic Cost of Farm Labor         W      6      4      45       -             428     722    145     139    235    132    531      2,387
(K '000)                         w      -      -       -                    428     734     97       97     97     47    428      1,928
Incremental Economic Cost of        W-W    6      4      45       -      -       -      -12     48      1X'   138     85    103        4159
Farm Labor (K '000)
W = Future with project.
W   Future without project.



BUR4A
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Estimated Opportunity Cost Curve for Farm Labor
Small Pump Irrigation Sub-Project in Lower Burma
iS e
6
5
B
41i
I;                                 I,         I            i
L                              I            I           L             1-                                 t
0   3                                          I                        o
0
0               0.5          1.0         1.5          2.0           2.5          3.0         3.5           4.0          4.5        5.0
Farm Labor Demand (Million man-days/month)
)-J
OI i
a >
H 3



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Estimated Opportunity Cost Curve for Farm Labor
Small Pump Irrigation Sub-Project in Upper Burma
6
I)                                                               __    _                                  __1__
B
III                                         - I
0s 3
0
-'-4
co
'-4
050                       100           150           2G0            250           300            350           400           45050
Farm Labor Demand ('000 man-days/month)
Iag



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Estimated Opportunity Cost Curve for Farm Labor
Minor Flood Embankments Sub-Project
I                                                               _  _  _     i _. _ _-. _
04
4"V
14
0
0.
bo
2A
0             50          100         150         200           250         300        350           400        450         500
Farm Labor Demand ('000 man-days/month)



ANNEX 14
Page   1
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
Rice
1.        Just prior to World War II, Burma was the world's leading rice
exporter, producing around 5 million tons of rice annually and exporting
3-3.5 million tons. The sown area did not regain pre-war levels until
1964 when 4.8 million tons were produced from 12.6 million acres. Since
then, production and sown area have remained relatively stable, except in
1966 and 1972 when poor monsoons were experienced. Meanwhile, domestic
consumption has risen steadily at 3.1% per annum, faster than the population
increase, with the result that exportable surpluses have been sharply
reduced.
2.        Since the war, Government-controlled producer prices have been
held low. This has permitted low domestic retail prices which have encour-
aged increased domestic consumption. At the same time, in export markets
Burma has relied heavily on bilateral. trading arrangements, the most impor-
tant of which usually have been concluded at prices below prevailing world
market prices. The result has been that domestic consumption has expanded
while little incentive has been given to the farmer to increase his
marketable surplus. Exports have therefore diminished to the point where
Burma is no longer a dominant influence in the world rice trade.
3.        Until 1973 the distribution of rice was a state monopoly.   Farmers
were allowed to trade freely within their townships, but otherwise surpluses
had to be sold to the State Agricultural Marketing Board (SAMB) from 1948
to 1964, and to Trade Corporation No. 1 (TC 1), iLs successor agency,
thereafter. TC 1 purchased paddy directly and through cooperatives,
milled it and distributed it throughout the country and to the Myanma
Export-Import Corporation (MEIC) for export. Between 1964 and 1973, the
share of total marketed paddy bought by State agencies fell from 80% to
30%. In 1973, the cooperatives were given sole responsibility for the
domestic rice trade, except for shipments to the rice deficit hill areas of
Upper Burma and the military. Procurement for these areas and for export
remains the responsibility of TC 1.
4.        Because of severe drought-in the 1972 monsoon season and the
poor harvest which followed, GOB allowed farmers to trade freely in rice
in May 1973. On November 1, 1973, a new marketing system was introduced
for paddy whereby farmers must sell specified minimum quantities to TC 1
through the cooperatives at official prices, and may sell any remainder
freely. It is still too early to evaluate this system.



ANNTEX 14
Page 2
5.        Government control of paddy prices dates from 1946, before inde-
pendence. For the most common variety, Ngasein (Annex 2), the price was
held constant at K 131 per ton up to 1964, then was increased gradually
at first and then more rapidly to K 285 per ton in November 1973. The
low official farm-gate price serves as an implicit '"tax" on farmers, whose
only other tax, the Consolidated Land Revenue, has been eroded to insignif-
icance by inflation (Annex 2), and whose rents were abolished by the Land
iationalization Act of 1948. In the early years of SAMB this implicit
"tax" amounted to 50%-75% of the value of the crop, 11 and current extimates
indicate that a similar relationship prevails today (see Table 1).
6.        TC 1 estimates that the average cost of rice delivered to the
retail level (People's Shops) has been about K 410 per ton in recent years.
Tlis rice was sold at K 323-K 352 per ton, resulting in a loss of K 75 per
ton on average, even with very low procurement prices, indicating a sub-
stantial subsidy to retail buyers. These losses were partially offset
by profits on rice exports, which ranged from K 13 to K 300 per ton during
the 1960's. From 1968 to 1972 however, exported rice was also sold at an
accounting loss, evaluated at the official exchange rate, so overall rice
operations have appeared to be a serious drain on government finances.
This anomalous result stems from an overvalued 'domestic currency at the
official exchange rate (Annex 14) and does not mean that Burma should stop
exporting rice, or that paddy procurement prices are too high. On the
contrary, observations in the field indicate that the official prices
provide little incentive for farmers to improve cultural practice and in-
crease production. The present analysis indicates that GOB could raise the
official purchase price of paddy if necessary to improve incentives in order
to meet procurement targets and still earn a substantial budgetary surplus,
if the foreign exchange earned by rice exports is evaluated at ite opportu-
nity cost (Table 1).
7.        Rice milling is Burma's largest industry. There are presently
800 mills in the country, of which 12 belong to cooperatives, 31 to TC 1 and
the rest to private owners, although mill operation and charges are con-
trolled by COB. Total national capacity of some 4.7 million tons of rice
annuallv, concentrated in Irrawaddy and Pegu Divisions (including Rangoon)
is onlv about half utilized due to inadequate paddy deliveries, but because
many mills are in poor condition, this capacity may be somewhat overstated.
Of the 800 mills only 26 can produce superfine quality (5-10% broken) rice,
abouit 100 can produce medium quality (15-25% broken) rice while the remainder
can only produce low quality (35-42% broken) rice, with considerable
losses. Although GOB continues to build new mills, the low controlled
milling charges which average only K 10 per ton for government-owned paddy
and K 20 per ton for privately-owned paddy cover only operating costs and
leave nothing for maintenance or rehabilitation. Storage of about 2 mil-
lion tons of paddy annually, about 60% owned by TC 1 and 40% by the private
sector, is presently adquate buy many of the 4,000 warehouses, particularly
in the private sector, are deteriorating. TC 1 would like to rehabilitate
the industry and provide modern storage, drying and milling equipment. There
is also need to introduce a management system that would encourage mill
operators to run their plants more efficiently. The Asian Development Bank



ANNEX 14
Page 3
is currently appraising a project to assist this industry and alleviate
some of its most pressing problems.
S.        For the economic analysis, the weighted average world price for
1980 (in 1974 currency values) of US$160 per ton fob Rangoon has been used,
assuming 10% of milled rice to be high grade (5% broken) at US$218 per ton
and 90% to be medium to low grade (15-25% and 35-42% broken) at US$153 per
ton. This price, coverted at the shadow exchange rate of K 10.00 = US$1.00 and
adjusted for transport, handling and rilling costs gives an economic farm-gate
price of K 816 per ton (Table 1). The average official procurement price
since November 1973 is about K 300 per ton for all types of paddy, implying
an economic "tax" of K 516 per ton on all paddy sold to GOB agencies.
9.        For the farm incone analysis (Annex 15), it is assumed that half
the paddy produced in the project areas is sold at the official price and
half on the free market at K 800 per ton, near the economic price and lower
free market prices prevailing in late 1973, for an average financial farm-gate
price of K 550 per ton.
Jute
10.       Jute production expanded from less than 5,000 tons in 1962 to
90,000 tons 1.n 1973, and exports rose from 2,000 tons in 1970 to 50,000 tons
ir, 1973. Ninety percent of the jute is grown in the Delta, almost entirely
tlhrough pump irrigation.
11.       AC is in charge of jute development. It provides seeds, fertilizers
and K 100 per ac (as of 1974) in cash, interest free, and buys back raw jute
at 151 collection centers. Producer prices are for three grades - K 1,026
per lg ton for first quality (mostly C, D and E), K 777 per lg ton for second
qtuality (E2 and rejections) and K 311 per lg ton for third quality (cuttings).
Although in recent years 90% of al3 jute bought from farmers has been graded
first quality, it is frequently downgraded whien exported, so future purchases
will be downgraded accordingly. It is assumed that in future 70% of purchases
will be graded first quality, 25% second quality and 5%, third quality.
12.       AC has thirteen baling presses with annual capacity of 118,000 lg
tons. Production in 1974 is expected to be 100,000 lg tons. Incremental
production fromt the project areas in Lower Burma would ada another 36,000 lg
tons by 1982. Assumin-g that an incremental 10,000 lg tons are produced out-
side the project areas, total required baling capacity in 1982 would be
146,000 lg tons, or an increase of 28,000 lg tons from current capacity.
The project would therefore finance the construction and equipping of 4 jute
baling factories of 7,000 lg tons annual capacity each.
13.       D)omestic mill consumption is 21,000 lg tons, but will increase
to 51,000 lg tons in 1975 when a new mill is expected to come on stream.
This would satisfy domestic bag requirements of about 50,000 lg tons per
year. It is therefore expected that incremental jute production from the
project would be exported.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
14.       For the economic analysis, the 1980 world price for Bangladesh
"D'" fob Chittagong/Chalna in 1974 currency values of E 116 (US$255) per lg
ton has been used. Although Burmese jute is considered by the trade to be
better quality than Bangladesh jute (Burma E-Bangladesh D), about 30% of
Burmese jute is expected to be graded as "rejections and cuttings," so the
Bangladesh price is used as the best estimator of the average price which
will actually be received in Burma. This price, converted at the shadow
exchange rate of K 10.00 = US$1.00 anc. adjusted for transport, handling and
baling charges gives an economic farm-gate price of K 2,070 per ton (Table 2).
15.       For the farm income analysis (Annex 15), it is assumed that all
jute is sold to AC at officjil prices, averaging K 915/ton.
Cotton
16.       Before the war, cotton production was around 36,000 torns per year.
Post-war production built up slowly to 68,000 tons in 1965, but then
declined to half that amount in 1970 and gradually recovered to 44,000 tons
in 1973. Exports of raw cotton, which were around 10,000 - 15,000 tons
up to 1965, have now ceased. About half the production is medium staple,
1 1/16 in, and the rest short staple. AC is responsible for production.
It provides seeds and advances 70% of the value of the crop (as of 1974)
in cash, interest free, to buy fertilizers, pesticides and to rent tractor
services. It buys seed cotton at collection points at an average price of
K 1,010 per ton, and then gins and bales the raw cotton in 725 gins with
a total capacity of 700 tons per day, well in excess of foreseeable require-
ments. Domestic market requirements are also well in excess of supply.
Cotton yarn and textiles are still imported and the free market price for
cloth is twice the official price in the Peoples' Shops.
17.       Since cotton would be an import substitute, for the economic
analysis the projected 1980 world market price in 1974 currency values of
US$0.47 per lb cif Liverpool has been used. This price, conve&ted at the
slhadow exchange rate of K 10.00 = US$1.00 and adjusted for transport,
handling and ginning costs gives an economic farm-gate price of K 3,005 per
ton (Table 3). The average official purchase price of K 1,010 per ton has
been used in the farm budget analysis. Since the implicit "tax" on cotton
at economic prices is about 65%, there would appear to be substantial room
for increasing the producer price. This is particularly relevant in the
catse of cotton where returns per ac are low relative to alternative crops
(Annex 15, Table 10), and field observations indicate that farmers divert
inputs and credit intended for cotton to higher value crops such as oil-
seeds, pulses and vegetables, despite GOB efforts to prevent their doing so.
Groundnuts
18.       Burma is short of vegetable oils, and traditionally has imported
large quantities for edible purposes.   Post-war imports averaged about
K 30 million annually, rose to K 163 million in 1965, and dropped rapidly
to almost zero in 1971 because of foreign exchange restrictions. Groundnut
and sesamum are the main oilseeds produced, and in terms of area sown are



ANNEX 14
Page 5
next to paddy in importance. Production was stagnant, hovering around
300,000 tons of unshelled nuts and 60,000 tons of sesamum until 1966, when
both commodities were decontrolled. Pr-oducer prices more than doubled as
a result, and output increased 50% for groundnuts and 100% for sesamum by
1971, a good example of price response. Groundnut productLon fell again
below 400,000 tons in 1973 because of the 1972 drought.
19..      Producer prices for unshelled nuts have fluctuated between K 900
ano K 1,450 per ton for the last 6 years and for oil, the wholesale price
has fluctuated between K 3,000 and K 6,500 per ton. For comparison, in
Thailand, producer prices have been around US$100-120 per ton for unshelled
nuts and US$300-450 per ton for exported oil, which are in the same range
as the Burmese prices coverted at the shadow exchange rate. For both the
economic and farm budget analyses a farm-gate price for unshelled nuts of
K 1300 per ton, about 10% lower than recently prevailing prices, has been
used.
Pulses and Vegetables
20.       Incremental production of these commodities would be small relative
to domestic demand, and prices of vegetables and most pulses are decon-
troJ.led.  Therefore representative producer prices over the last few years
of K 1,400 per ton for pulses and K 1,800 per ton for vegetables have been
used in both the economic and farm income analyses.
Inputs
91.       The major imported inputs include fertilizers (urea, TSP and MP)
and HSD for the small pumps. For the economic analysis, projected 1980
world market prices in 1974 currency values were converted to local currency
equivalents at the shadow exchange rate. For the farm income analysis, it
was assumed that these commodities would be available at world prices con-
verted at the official exchange rate.
Foreign Exchange
22.       There is substantial evidence that the Kyat is overvalued at the
official exchange rate of K 4.815 =US$1.00. GOB maintains equilibrium in
its balance of payments by direct budgetary allocation of foreign exchange
and strict control of official imports. All foreign transactions are
handled through the state trading monopoly, Myanma (Burma) Export-Import
Corporation (MEIC). Export proceeds accrue directly to the Government and
the domestic currency equivalent converted at the official exchange rate
is credited to the government corporation responsible for the exports. The
"price" of foreign exchange, therefore, does not directly influence either
its demand or supply for official transactions.
23.       Since GOB determines retail and, producer prices for most inter-
nationally traded items administratively, official domestic prices for these
items are etfectively isolated from international prices.   However, inspection



ANNEX 14
Page 6
of governmenL shops Leveals acute shiortages, and an active free market
exists for most items ranging from food and textiles to machinery atnd
spare parts, with prices several times the official prices of both
domestic products (especially rice and textiles) and legal imports
(medicines, textiles, machinery and parts). There is also an actxlve un-
official market for foreign currency, with a rate of around K 14-15 = US$1.00.
24.       The overvalued exchange rate affects Burmese agriculture in
general and the proposed project in particular in a number of important
ways. First, it understates the value to the economy of equipment and
parts to be imported under the project, and foreign exchange to be earned
or saved by incremental production from the project. Second, it encourages
the use of low official producer prices, which serve as an implicit "tax"
on farmers who produce rice, jute and cotton and sell their output to
Government agencies at official prices (see Tables 1-3). Since there is
effectively no other tax on agriculture, there are no rents on agricultural
land, and traders' mark-ups are probably lower than they would be in a
free market situation, it is appropriate for GOB to receive part of what
would otherwise be "windfall profits" to cultivators and/or private middle-
men and use these receipts to finance its- social and developmental programs.
Rowever, the present "tax" appears to be excessive insofar as it reduces
incentives to increase production and, in some cases, causes diversion of
inputs from crops for which they were intended to higher value crops with
uncontrolled prices. The most notable example of this is in the case of
cottotl, which has relatively very low returns at official prices (Annex 15,
Table 10). If a more realistic shadow exchange rate is used to reflect
the opportunity cost of foreign exchange to the economy, it is clear that
GOB1 could raise official producer prices considerably and still earn a
large surplus for budgetary revenues. As it is, at the official exchange
rate GOB suffers an accounting loss on the export of jute and just about
breaks even on the export of rice--a result which is highly unrealistic.
Tliird, for purposes of international comparison, the overvalued exchange
rate exaggerates the purchasing power of farm cash incomes. Farmers must
pay free market prices to buy most of what they do not produce, because
Af shortages in the official shops. Since free market prices are two or
three times thc official domestic prices which are related to world prices
converted at the official exchange rate, converting cash incomes in local
currency to foreign exchange equivalents at the official exchange rate
considerably overstates farmers' real incomes.
25.       Because there is no official market for foreign exchange, and
effective import duties are very high or infinite due to strict non-market
control of official imports, it is difficult to estimate the opportunity
cost of foreign exchange to the Burmese economy. The free market currency
raLe may oe considered an upper limit, since it reflects demand for luxury
imports, capital flight, etc. as well as "niormal" demand for imports.
Althlough a detailed empirical a.nalysis has not been possible, the quali-
tattve (dimensions of the situation and the distortions it causes are clear.
1lLtcru.iti01n1a1 market bask<et comparisons and comparisons of prices for
intern.atic'nally traded crops in the ;ree domestic market and in other



ANNEX 14
Page 7
countries inclicate that conversions at a rate of K 10.00 = US$1.00 give
reasonable results (Tables 1-3). A shadow exchange rate of K 10.00 = US$1.00
has therefore been used in the economic analysis, and for estimating the
foreign exchange equivalents of farm incomes (Annexes 15 and 16).
Sumnary
26.       Table 4 presents a summary of prices discussed in this Annex.
0



ANNEX 14
Table I
BLTMA
]2RRDMATION I PROJECT
Farm-Ate Price of Rice
1980 Price Structure for Rice
Shado         --Official
Exchange           Nxchange
Rat                Rate
(K 10.0 - US$1)    (K 4.815 = US$1)
------   --- (K/ton) -------------
Rice
Export price fob Rangoon                     1,600               770
lese loading, transport and
handling, warehouse to port                  20                20
less transport and handling
mail to Rangoon                              65                6
Price of rice ex-mill                        1,515               685
lesa storage and losses, bagg_ng,
inspection                                   55                55
1,460               630
Paddy
Paddy equivalent price at 60% milling
factor                                         876               378
less milling costs 2/                        40                40
less handling, storage and transport
farm to mill                                 20                20
Farm-Gate Price                                816               318
Comparison
US$ equivalent of farm-gate price at
respective exchange rate 3/ (US$/ton;        81.60              66.04
GOB official purchase price (approx.)
(K/ton)                                   300               300
Dpplicit tax (K/ton)                           516                18
4/
Decontrolled price - (K/ton)                 900-1,400       900-1,400
1/ Weighted average world price for 1980 in 1974 currency values of US$160 per
ton fob Rangoon, assuming 10% of milled rice to be high grade (f broken),
H US$2f8 per ton and 90% to be medium to lcw grade (25-35% and 42% broken)
0 US$153 per ton.
2/ Economic cost of milling including opurating costs, interest, depreciation
and normal profits, comparable to c4arges in other countries (about US$5-00
eqpivalent per ton of paddy in both Thailand (exporter) and Indonesia
(importer). In December 1973, GOB controlled milling charges at about
K 10 per ton for government-owned paddy and K 20 per ton for privately
milled paddy.
31 At US$160 per ton fob Bangkok, the farm-gate price of paddy in Thailand
-   (without aubtracting export cdties and taxse) is the equivalent of
US$84 per ton. For irporting countries, at US$180 per ton of rice cif
Manila, the farm-gate price in the philippines is the equivalent of
US$105 per ton of paddy, and at US$180 per ton of rice cif Jakarta, the
farm-gate price in Indonesia is the equivalent of US$103 per ton of paddy.
Therefore, the price steture at tlLe shadow exchange rate of K 10.00 - US$1.00
appears mch more reasonable than that at the official exchange rate.
4/ From May to Norember 1973, when the price of rice was decontrolled and
before the 1973/74 main harvest, paddy sold in the free market for
K 900-K 1,400 per ton. Source: CS:l).



ANNEX 14
Tab le 2
RIGA.TII I P- jECT
Famm-Gate Price of Jute
1980 Price Structure for Jute
Shadow                Official
Echange                Exchange
Rate                   Rate
(1x-10.w = Us1        01 (  0815 - US$1)
-~~ ------------- (vB t6n ) -------------
Jute
Export Price fob Rangoon                       2,550                  1,228
leas TC 1 tranaport, handling & storage        65                     65
Net Value to TC 1                              2,485                  1,163
less AC trvsport, handling, baling2
& storage -                                   280                    280
leas t-ransport & handling from fara
to baling factory                             100                    100
Farm-Gate Price                               22,105                    783
(Conversion to Metric Ton)                 (2,070)                  (770)
Comparison
US$ equivalent faxrm-gate price at respective
exchange rates (US$/ton)                         207                    160
AC pays farmers (average) (K/lg ton)             930                    930
Implicit tax (subsidy) to farmers (Klg ton)    1,175                   (147)
Free Market Price 3 (K/lg ton))             2,000-3,000            2,000-3,000
1/ Projected 1980 world price for Bangladesh D fob Chittagong/Cha,1na in 1974
currency values is I: 116 per lg ton. Assuming an excha-ige ratAe, of US$2020 =
1 1O00 gives a price of US$255/lg ton. Although  iuneae Jute is considered
by the trade to be better quality than Bangladesh jute, (Erma E = Bangladesh D),
about 30% of Barmese jute is expected to be claosed as rejectioum and cuttinga
at the time of full project development, so the Bangladesh price is used as the
best estimate of average price actually received in Burua.
2/ Includes estimated interest and depreciation on baling factories asInd storage
facilities of K 50/lg ton.
3/ Bassein, May-July 1973. Source: CSED.



ANNEX 14
Table 3
IlRGAIIC0iS I PI)JET
Farm-Gate Price of Cotton
"980 Price Stz=rOvj- for Co-,Aom-
xchange              3achange
Rate
-------------- (Kto)-------------
Cotton
Import Price cif Rangoon                    10,360                4s9go
leas handaing to mill                       100                  100
less baling                                  830                 830
leas transport to baling factory              50                  50
Price ex-gimlflixng factory                  9380                 40
Seed Cotton Equivalent Price (1/3)           3,127                1-337
less ginning cost                             22                  22
lesa tranwport fam to gin                    100                 100
Fanr-Gate Price                              3,                   1.215
Comparison
AC paYs farmers (average) /                   1,010               1,010
Implicit tax                                 1,995                  206
Free market price 2                      1,225-1,530            1,225-,9530
1/ 1980 proJected world price in 1974; currency values for Mexican
SM 1-1/16 in, cif Liverpool of US$0.47/lb.
2/ K 1.65/vi8s
3/ From 1968/69 to 1972/73 the free market rice for shortS/xdium staple cotton
was K 2.00-K 250/vias (K 1,125-K 1,530 tl). Me 8va.lue to the economny of the
1-1/16 in staple cotton to be procluced under the project would be greater thaa
that of the short staple cotton which dominates the free market. Hwever, the
longer staple fiber is harder to use by home weavers and hreore tades at
an appreciabile discount In the free mark3t0



ANNEX 14
Table 4
BURMA
IRRI:GATION I PROJECT
PRICE SUNIMARY
1980 World           Economic               Financial
Commodity           Market Price        Farm-Gate Price       Farm-Gate Price
(US$/ton)             (K/ton)                (K/ton)
Crops
Rice                  160                   816                   550
Jute                   252                2,070                   915
Cotton              1,036                 3,005                 1,010
froundnuts            n.a.                1,300                 1,300
Pulses                n.a.                1,400                 1,400
Vegetables            n.a.                1,800                 1,800
Inputs
UJrea                  150                1,500                   725
T'SP                  150                 1,500                   725
r4P                    30.60                306                   147
IiSD         (US$/gal)  0.36         (K/gal)  3.60         (K/gal)  1.75



ANNEX 15
Page   1
BURMA
IRRIGATIOW I PROJECT
Crop-2and Farm Budgets
General
1.        Annex 2 describes agricultural practices in the project areas
while Annex 12 shows present and projected future cropping patterns, yields
and production. This annex presents crop production costs, labor require-
ments, crop budgets and farm budgets for typical farms.
Production Costs
2.        Crop production costs for each crop using economic prices for
internationally traded inputs are presented in Tables 1-4. Current produc-
tion costs are based on information provided by AC, the project prepara-
tion report and personal interviews conducted during appraisal in the pro-
ject areas. Some improvements in farming practices are assumed for future
"without project" conditions.   The level of inputs for "future with project'
conditions is based on observed cultural practices of more progressive
farmers in areas similar to the project areas where pump irrigation is
already available. The projected level also takes into account an assess-
ment of AC's capabilities.
Labor Requirements
3.        Total labor requirements for each crop are also presented in
Tables 1-4, and include both family and hired labor; no distinction between
the two is made in the economic analysis of the project. Monthly labor
requirements by crop are presented in Tables 5-7. Detailed farm labor
analysis is presented in Annex 13.
Crop Budgets
4.        Crop budgets based on economic prices for cash inputs, as used
in the economic analysis, are presented in Annex 12, Tables 2-4, along with
total area and total net value of production for each crop. Crop budgets
based oni financial prices are presented in Tables 8-10.
Farm Budgets
5.        Separate farm models have been prepared for the small pump irriga-
tion sub-project in Lower and Upper Burma, and for the minor flood embank-
ments sub-project. For the pumps, farms of 2 ac (to represent small farmers
who would rent pumps from cooperatives), 8ac (to represent the medium size
farmers who would form groups and purchase pumps) and 16 ac (to represent
the larger farmers, who would also purchase pumps in groups, and who would



ANNEX 15
Page 2
hire more seasonal labor) have been used. For th- flood embankments,
typical farms of 2 and 8 ac have been taken to represent small and medium
size beneficiaries, respectively.  For each typical farm model, budgets have
been prepared for "present" and "future with project" conditions. Details
of farm budgets are presented in Tables 11-13. Assumptions and definitions
used in the farm budget analysis which differ from those used in the economic
analysis are explained below.
(a) Gross Value of Production. Farm-gate prices for the farm budget
analysis, which are substantially different from those used in the economic
analysis for the major crops, are as follows (see Anniex 14 for derivation):
Crop         Price
(k/ton)
Paddy          550
Jute           915
Cotton       1,010
Groundnuts   1,300
Pulses       1,400
Vegetables   1,800
(b) Production Costs
(i) IHired Labor. Labor availability on the farm has been
estimated to be 240 man-days per year (for details see Annex 13). Hired
labor is generally engaged for land preparation, transplanting (paddy) and
harvesting (including jute retting). For paddy, hiring is frequently on a
seasonal basis--either transplanting season and harvest season separately, or
full season (10 months), with payment typically in kind. The cost of hired
labor in the farm budgets was taken as K 4/man-day.
(ii) Farm Inputs. These include seed, fertilizers and agro-
chiemicals. For rice, the unit cost of seed is taken as the farm-gate price
of paiddy for local varieties at present, 10% higher for liocal varieties
in future with the project (assuming seed is renewed witli certified seed
every five years), 20% higher for HIYV at present and 30% higher for HYV in
future witlh the project. For other crops, the same seed prices, based on
information supplied by AC, were used in both the economic and financial
analyses (see Tables 1-4). For fertilizers, projected 1980 world prices
in 1974 currency values were converted to local currency equivalents at
the official exchange rate to obtain the implicit assumed subsidized prices
at fuill development. These are K 0.33/lb for urea and TSP and K 0.07/lb for
MP . In 1973, the prices of these fertilizers to farmers were K 0.16, K 0.21
and K 0.12/lb, respectively. Agrochemicals are subsidized by AC for cotton
and vegetables and provided free for all other crops. Consequently, in. the



ANNEX 15
Page 3
-rm budget analysis, the cost of pesticides was taken as half the economic
cost for cotton and vegetables, and zero for other crops.
(c) Taxes. The Consolidated Land Revenue is taken as K 2/ac on both
unirrigated and irrigated land, assuming that land will probably not be
reclassified to account for increased productivity. 0 & M charges for the
minor embankments, which will be collected as part of the Consolidated Land
Revenue, are treated here as separate 0 & M costs to maintain their identity
(see (e) below).
(d) Capital Cost of Pumps. For the small pump irrigation sub-project,
the capital cost has been included in the farm budgets of 8- and 16-ac
farmers. The annual cost has been computed by amortizing the estimated
sale price of the pumps at 10% over the average service life of the pumps.
For 2-ac farmers no capital cost has been included; it is assumed that
cooperatives would continue co rent pumps to these farmers at the present
subsidized rate of K 12/ac.
(e) Operation and Maintenance. For the small pumps, 0 & M costs are
derived as in Annex 11. However, prices of fuel and lubricants have been
taken as twice the prices prevailing in October 1973 rather than three
timaes as in the economic analysis to reflect the expected implicit subsidy
to owners (farmers and cooperatives) on these items. The resulting costs
are K 32/ac for dry season jute or K 40/ac for dry season HYV paddy in Lower
|u!flca and K 93/ac in Upper Burma. In the case of cooperatives, the rate at
which pumps are rented to users at present, K 12/ac, represents a further
subsidy. This price was used for the 2 ac farm in the farm budget analysis.
For the embankments, 0 & M cost has been taken as K 7/ac of protected land
(Arnnex 11).



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Crop Production Ccsts
Dry Season
Local Paddy                    HYV Paddy                 Jute           HYV Paddy
(Alt. I)          (Alt. TI)
P        W         w          p         W         W       P   J      w      p P        w
A. SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION
Lower Burma
Cash Inputs (K/ac)
Land Preparation 2/           20       20        25         20        20        25      -   -      30     -   -     35
Farmyard Manure -/             6        6         6          6         6         6      -   -       -    -    -      6
Seeds                         18       18        16         18        18        17      -   -      3     -   -      17
(50 lb)  (50 lb)   (40 lb)    (40 lb)   (40 lb)   (35 lb)            (10 lb)           (35 lb)
Fertilizer                     6       30        65         82        89       102      -   -      54     -  -      102
(10/0)   (25/20)   (56/40)    (80/40)   (80/50)   (90/60)            (80/0)            (9o/60)
Agrochemicals                  -        -        10          5        10        30      -   -      20     -   -      40
Other 5/                      15       16        18         24        27        30      -   -       3     -   -      35
Total Cash I-puts 2/        65       90       14o        155       170       210      -   -     110     -   -    235
Labor Inputs (man-days/ac)
Land Preparation              12       12        15         12        12        15      -   -      1      -   -      15
Nursery                        1        1         1          1         1         1      -   -       -     -   -       1
Planting/Sowing                8        8         8          8         8         8      -   -       1     -   -       8
Weeding                        4        4         6          4         4         6      -   -      12     -   -       6
Management /                   1        2         4          2         3         5      -   -       5     -   -      15
Harvesting §/                 12       13        16         21        22        25      -   -      70     -   -      30
Total Labor Inputs          38       4O        50         48        50        60      -   -     100     -   -      75
World market equivalent prices foi seed paddy, fertilizer and pesticides (Annex 14).
8/ Cost of bullock team @ K 3.0 per bullock pair day; excludes driver.
3/ One cartload: K 6.0.
Urea: US$150/ton cif Rangoon (domestically produced + marginal imports) = K 0.68/lb @ K 10.00    US$1.00.
TSP:   US$150/ton cif Rangooin = K 0.68/lb @ K 10.00 - US$1.00.        -   K
MP:    US$30.60/ton cif Rangoon = K o.14/lb @ K 10.00 = US$1.00. Negligible use.                                             e
Figures in parenthesis indicate (lb urea/lb TSP).                                                                            H 1
2/ Bullock and equipment cost for threshing, transportation, handling and storage.
Excluding pump operation and maintenance.
/ Plant protection, fertilizer, irrigation, transportation and handling.
I/ ncludes threshing, winnowing, drying, retting (jute).



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Crop Production Costs -
Groundnut                        Pulses                 Vegetables
P          W          w          P                   N        P   W      w
A. SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION
Lower Burma
Cash Inputs (K/ac)
Land Preparation              36         36         40         12        12        15       -   -      60
Farmyard Manure ./             -          -          -          -         -         -       -   -      20
Seeds                        100        100        100          5         5         5       -   -     100
(100 lb)   (100 lb)   (100 lb)    (30 lb)   (30 lb)   (30 lb)
Fertilizer                     -         14         48          -         -        34       -   -     110
(10/10)    (30/40)                         (20/30)            (100/90)
Agrochemicals                 10         15         40          5        10        20       -   -     140
Other 2/                       4          5          7          3         3         6       -   -       5
Tozal Cash Inputs it       150        170        235         25        30        80                 435
Labor Inputs (man-days/ac)
Land Preparation              18         18         20         10        10        12       -   -      60
Planting/Sowing                3          3          3          4         4         4       -          20
Weeding                        4          4          6          -         -         -       -   -      60
Management _/                  3          4          6          1         1         3       -   -      30
Harvesting 8/                 16         19         25         12        12        18       °   -      15
Total Labor Inputs          44         48         60         27        27        35          185    185
|  World market equivalent prices for feitilizer end pesticides (Alnnex 14).
'/ Cost of bullock team @ K 3.0 per bullock pair day; excludes driver.
3   One cartload:  K 6.0.
i/ Urea: US$150/ton cif Rangoon (danestically produced + marginal imports)    K 0.68/lb @ K 10.00   US$1.00.
TSP:   US$150/ton cif Rangoon = K 3.68/lb @ K 10.00 = US$1.00.
MP:    US$30.60/ton cif Rangoon = K 0.14/lb Q K 10.00 - US$1.00. Negligible use.
Figures in parenthesis indicate (lb urea/lb TSP).
5/ Bullock and equipment cost for threshing, transportation, handling and storage.
/  Excluding pump operation and maintenance.          i
Plant protection, fertilizer, irrigation, transportation and handling.
/ Includes threshing, winnowing, drying.                                                                              O



BURIM
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Crop Production CostsI/
Local Paddy               HYV Paddy           Cotton                   Groundnut                        Pulses               Vegetables
P         W         w       p   W      w       p   W      w         p          W          W          p         W         w
A. SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION
Upper Burma
Cash Inputs (K/ac)
Land Preparation 2/           20        20        25        -        25      -   -      27        40         40        40          22        22        15
Farmyard Manure 2/             6         6         6      -   -       6      -   -      30         -          -         -           -         -         -         a
Seeds                         18        18        16      -   -      17      -   -       3      100       10         100           5         5         5
e               (50 lb)   (50 lb)   (40 lb)    -   -   (35 lb)   -   -    (35 lb)   (100 lb)  (100 ro)   (100 lb)    (30 lb)   (30 lb)   (30 lb)
Fertilizer                     -         3        65      -   -     102      -  -      70         6         14         48
(5/0)     (56/40)            (90/60)           (66/30/30)   (5/5)    (10/10)    (30/40)                        (20/30)
Agrochemicals                  -         -        10      -   -      30      -   -     120        10         15         40          5        10        20
Other 1                       11        13        18.                25                 40         4          6          7          3         3         6
Total Cash Inputs §/        55        60       140                205                290       160        175       235          35        40        80
Labor Inputs (man-days/ac)
Land Preparation              12        '         15      -   -      15      -   -      15        18         18         18          18        18        12
Nursery                        1         1         1      -   -       1                  -
Planting/Sowing                8         8         8      -   -       8      -   -       4         3          3          3           4         4        4
Weeding                        4         4         6      -   -       6      -   -       9         3          3          4
Management                     1         3         9      -   -       9      -   -      22         3          3          8           3         3         6
Harvesting   /                 9        12        16      -   -      21      -   -      15        13         13         22          10        12        18
Total Labor Inputs          35        40        55                 60                 65        40         40         55          35        37        40
#/ World market equivalent prices for seed paddy, fertilizer and pesticides (Annex 14).
E Cost of bullock team @ K 3.0 per bullock pair day; excludes driver.
g One cartload: K 6.0.
k/Urea: US$150/ton cif Rangoon (domestically produced + marginal imports) = K 0.68/lb @      K 10.00   US$1.00.
TSP:   US$150/ton cif Rangoon = K 0.68/lb  @ K 10.00 - US$1.00.
MP:    US$30.60/ton cif Rangoon   K 0.14/lb @ K 10.00 = US$1.00. Negligible use.
Figures in parenthesis indicate (lb urea/lb TSP). The third number for cotton indicates lb/MP.                                                                                    E
5/ Bullock and equipment cost for threshing, transportation, handling and storage.                                                                                                    X
F   Excluding pump operation and maintenance.                                                                                                                                        H
7/ Plant protection, fertilizer, irrigation, trarnsportation and handling.
Includes threshing, winnowing, drying.



BURKA
IRRIGATICN I PROJECT
Crop Production Costs
Local Paddy              HYV Paddy           Groundnut            Pulses
P         W          W       P   W      W       P   W      W         P   W      W
B. NINOR FLOOD EMBANCIENTS
Lower Burma
Cash Inputs (K/ac)
Land Preparation g./          20        20        20      -    -     20       -   -      36       -    -      12
Farmyard Manurei               6         6         6      -    -       6      -   -       -
Seeds                         18        18        18      -   -      18       -   -     100       -   -       5
(50 lb)   (50 lb)   (50 lb)             (40 lb)            (100 lb)             (30 lb)
Fertilizer                     -         4        30      -   -      89       -   -      14
(5/0)    (25/20)             (80/50)            (10/10)
Agrochemicals                  -         -         -      -   -       10      -   -      15       -   -       10
Other  '                      11        12        16      -   -      27       -   -       5       -   -       3
Total Cash inputs 6/        569C                                  170                 170                  -30
Labor Inputs (man-days/ac)
Land Preparation              12        12        12      -    -      12      -   -      18       -   -      10
Nursery                        1         1         1       -   -       1      -   -       -       -   -        -
Planting/Sowing                8         8         8       -   -       8      -   -       3        -   -       4
Weeding                        4         4         6       -   -       4      -           4        -           -
Management Y/                  1         1         2       -   -       3      -   -       4        -   -       1
Harvesting                     8         9        13       -   -      22      -   -      19        -   -      12
Total Labor Iniputs         34        35        40                  50                 48                  27
World market equivalent prices for seed paddy, fertilizer and pesticides (Annex 14).
Cost of bullock team @ K 3.0 per bullock pair day; excludes driver.
3/ One cartload: K 6.0.
3±Urea:    US$150/ton cif Rangoon (domestically produced + marginal imports) = K 0.68/lb @ K 10.00 - US$1.00.
TSP: US$150/ton cif Rangoon = K 0.68/lb @ K 10.00 = US$1.00.
MP:   US$30.60/ton cif Rangoon - K 0.14/lb @ K 10.00 = US$1.00.     Negligible use.
Figures in parenthesis indicate (lb urea/lb TSP).
/ Bullock and equipment cost for threshing, transportation, handling and storage.
Excluding pump operation and maintenance.
Plant protection, fertilizer, irrigation, transportation and handling.
J   Includes threshing, winnowing, drying.



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PR0JECT
Average Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Crops
(man-days/ac)
SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION              Jan     Feb     Mar    Apr     May     June     July     Aug     Sept    Oct     Nov     Dec     Total
Lower Burma
Local Paddy                      --                                      8       11        3       2       2       1      11       38
W       -       -      -       -       -        8       11       3       2        2       2     12       4o
w       -       -      -       -       -       10       12       4       3        4       3     14       50
HYV Paddy                 P      -       -       -       -      -        8       11        3       8      18      -                48
W                                               8      11        3       8       20      -      -        50
w               -      -       -       -       -       10       12       4        4      11     19       60
Jute (Alt. I)             P      -       -       -       -                       --                               -       -        -
W       -       -       ---------.-
w       15       2       9      4      -       16       16      25      13       -       -              100
Dry Season YrV Paddy     P       -                       -       -       -       -                   - -  -  -  -  -      -
(Alt. II)             W       -      -       -       -       -      -                                                          -
w       15      18       3      5      14      20                                        -       -       75
Groundrut                p        2       2      16      -      -       -        -        -       -        -      21       3       44
W        2       2     20      -       -       -        -       -       -        -       21       3      48
w        4       4      2      15       9      -        -        -      -        -       -       26      60
Pulses                    P       1      -       12      -                   -       -                            14      -        27
w        1      -      12      -       -       -        -        -      -        -       14      -       27
w        1       1      1      18      -       -        -        -      -        -       -       14      35
Vegetables                P                              -       -                                                        -        -
W       -       -       -      -       -       -        -        -      -        -       -       -        -
W       25      20      5      10      15      -        -        -      -        60      25      25     185
P = Present;     W - Fature without project;      W   Future with project.
CD
\ Fl



HJRMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Average Monthly Labor Reiuirementa for Various Crons
A   SmaU lPump Irrigation       Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr     ~     June   July    B     S      Oct    Nov   Dec      bta1l
Upper 3.rma
Local Paddy         F2/    -      -      -      -      2      6     U       3      2      2      2      7      35
W      -      -      -      -      2      6     11      3      3      3      2     10      40
T      -      -      -      -      1     11     15      4      4 h    4      5     U       55
HYV Paddy           p                                     -      -      -      -      -      -      -           -
w     21      -      -      -      -                          16      4      4      4      6o
Cotton              p      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -              -
w     18      5      4      9      8      4 .           6      -      -      -      -      65
Groundnut           p      3      1      1     14             -      -      -      -             -     21      40
9      3      1      1     14      -      -      -      -      -      -      -     21      40
w      4      4      3     23      -      -      -      -      -      -      -     21      55
Pul8es              P      1      1      1     10      -      -      -      -      -      -      -     22      35
W      1      1      1     12      -      -      -      -      -      -      -     22      37
W      2      2      2     18      -                                               16      40
Vegetables          p      -      - -           -      -      -             -      -      -      -
w     2D     15     15      -      -      -      -      -     60     25     25     25     185
1/ P = Present;    W = Fut re without project;   W - Plaure with project.
HI P
I IJ
Ln



IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Average Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Crops
(man-days/ac)
B. Minor Flood Embanknents       Jan   Feb     Aar   &r     M     June   July          Set      Oct    Nov    Dec     Total
Lower Brma
Local Paddy     p1         -     -       -     -     -      8      12      2      2       2      1      7       34
-     -       -     -     -      8     12       2      2      2       1      8      35
w           -     -      -      -     -      8     12       3      2      2      2      1L      4
HYV Paddy       p                                 -      -      -      -       -      -      -          -        -
w           -     -      -      -     -      8     11       3      8     20       -      -
Groundm t       p          -      -      -     -             -      -      -       -      -      -      -
W          2      2     20     -      -      -      -       -      -            21       3      48
Rals esP-                         -      -     -     -       -
W~le                   -      -      -     -     -       -      -      -       -      -      -               -
w           1     -     12      -     -      -      -              -      -     1)4      -      27
1/ P = Present;     W   Fiture without project;    W = Future with project.
-q
tD>



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Crop Budgets -
Dry Season
SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION                          Local Paddy                 HYV Paddy                 Jute            HYV Padd-
Lower Burma                                 T2      W       W          P       W       W         P       W  W       P   W     w
Yield (lb/ac)                          1,600   1,700   1,950      2,550   2,750   3,000       -   -   1,OO0      -   -   3,200
Farm-Gate Price (K/ton)                  550     550     550        550     550     550       -   -     915      -   -     550
Gross Value of Production (K/p)          399     424     486        636     686     748       -   -     415      -   -     798
Cash Production Costs (K/ac) 3            51      64      87          99    103      118      -   -      62      -   -     133
Net Value of Production (K/ac)           348     360     399        539     583      630      -   -     353          -     665
Labor Requirement (man-days/ac)           38      40      50         48      50       60      -   -     100      -   -      75
Groundnuts                     Pulses              Vegetables
P       _       w          p        W       w        p   W     w
Yield (lb/ac)                            700     800   1,000        600      600     900      -       4,000
Farm-Gate Price (K/ton)                1,300   1,300   1,300      1,400   1,400    1,400      -   -   1,800
Gross 'Value of Production (K/ac)        413     472     590        381     381      571      -   -   3,265
Production Costs (K/ac) 3/               140     148     170          20      25      42      -         288
Net Value of Production (K/ac)           273     324     420         361     356     529          -   2,977
Labor Requirement (man-days/ac)           44      48      60         27      27       35      -         185
1/ At financial prices.
2/ P = Present;    W = Future without project;    W = Future with project.
3/ Excluding labor, taxes and 0 & M charges for irrigation.                                                                              A >
cr x
(DX
oo H



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Crop Budgets I.
SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION                           Local Paddy            HYV Paddy            Cotton               Groundnuts
Upper Burma                                 P2/     Wp                         w        p W       w           p       _       w
Yield (lb/ac)                          1,150   1,250   1,950       -  -   2,600       -   -     900        600     700   1,000
Farm-Gate Price (K/ton)                  550     550     550      -   -     550       -   -   1,010      1,300   1,300   1,300
Gross Value of Production (K/ac)         287     312     486      -   -     648       -   -     412        354     413     590
Cash Production Costs (K/ac) 3/           44      48      87      -   -     113       -   -    194         147     153     170
Net Value of Production (K/ac       .   243      264     399          -     535       -   -    218         207     260     L20
Labor Requirement (man-days/ac)           35      40      55      -   -      60       -   -     65          40      4o      55
Pulses              Vegetables
P       W       W        P   W     W
Yield (lb/ac)                            500     600     900       -   -   4,000
Farm-Gate Price (K/ton)                1,400   1,400   1,400      -   -   1,800
Gross Value of Production (K/ac)         317     381     571      -   -    3,265
Cash Production Costs (K/ac) 3/          33       33      42      -   -     288
Net Value of Production (K/ac)          284      348     529      -   -   2,977
Labor Requirement (man-days/ac)           34      35      1o                185
1/ At financial prices.
2/  P = Present;   W = Future without project;    W   Future with project.
3/  Excluding labor, taxes and 0 & M charges for irrigation0                                                                             'HO
\o H



BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
if
Crop Budgets
MINOR FLOOD EMBANKMENTS                         Local Paddy               HYV Paddy            Groundnuts              Pulses
p2/               w
2/.     W         W        P    _
Yield (lb/ac)                          1,000    1,100    1,700      -     -   2,750       -    -      800      -    -      600
Farm-Gate Price (K/ton)                  550      550      550      -    -      550       -    -    1,300      -    -    1,400
Gross Value of Production (K/ac)         249      274      424      -     -     686       -    -      472      -    -      381
Cash Production Costs (K/ac)          /   4        447      64      -           103       -    -      148      -            20
Net Value of Production (K/ac)           205      227      360      -           583                   324                  361
Labor Requirement (man-days/ac)           34       35       40      -    -       50       -    -       48      -            27
1/ At financial prices.
2/ P = Present;    W = Future without project;     W   Future with project.
3/ Excluding labor, taxes and 0 & M charges for irrigation.
CDF



BUIRMA
IRIRIGATION I PROJECT
Farm Budgets
SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION                              2 ac Farm                   8 ac Farm                    16 ac Farm
Lower Burma                                   PJ   W(I)21   W(,I)3/       P      w(i)    w(ii)        P       w(i       _____
Local Paddy (ac)                         1.9      1.4     1.4         7.6      5.4     5.4        1.5.2    10.9       10.9
HYV Paddy (ac)                           0.1      0.6     0.6         0.4      2.4     2.4         0.       4.8        4.8
J-ute (Alt. I) (ac)                       -       0.6      --                 2.4       -     -             4.8         -
Dry Season HYV Paddy (Alt. II) (ac)        -       -      0.6          -        -      2.4          -        -         4.8
Groundnut (ac)                             -      0.1     0.1         0.2      0.4     0.4         0.3      0.8        0.8
Pulses (ac)                              0.1      0.1     0.1         0.2     0.4      0.4         0.5      0.8        0.
Vegetables (ac)                            -       -        -          -       0.2     0.2          -       0.3        0.3
Total Cropped Area (ac)               2.1      2.8     2.8         8.4    11.2     11.2       16.8      22.4      22.4
Croppi-ng intensfity                  io)10    140o     40                 140       4         105       140        ]40
Gross Value of Production (K) k/         860    1L,494  1,724       3,446   6,533    7,452       6,1888  12,1788    14,~626
Cash Production Costs (K) 4/             109      251     294         458   1,044    1,215         905    2,068      2,409
Labor Requirement (man-days) -/         (80)    (176)    (160)      (322)    (729)   (669)       (643)   (1,444)    (1,324)
Cost of Hired Labor (K) ~                              -              328   1,956    1,716       1,612    4,816      4,336
Taxes (K)                                   4       4        4         16       16      16          32       32         32
Capital Cost of Pumps                      --               -          -       143     285          -       164        328
0&M for Pumps (K)                          -24             24          -       288     320                  57664
Net Farm Income (K)                   747    1,215   1,402       2,644    3,06 6  3,0         ,3          32      6,881
1/Assumed to rent pump from primary cooperative @ K 12/ac.
Assumed to be part of a group of farmers that owns a pump.
P/ Ps Present;    W =Future with project;      (I) = Dry season jute;     (II) = Dry season HIYV~ paddy.
From Annex 15, Table 8.
5/ Based on 240 man-days per year     family, labor and K 4/mnan-day for hired labor.
Full cost of pump at official exchanige rate (K 2,118) amortized at 10% over average life of pump (6 years for dry
season jute and 5 years for dry season HYV paddy), prorated by service area (each p'ump assumed to serve 30 ac).



BU;EU
IItGATION I PROJECT
1/                  2/               2/
2ac F1arm-         8aFarm-           6 ac Far-
SIALL PIM?  UMATION                    P/      O         p         W        p         w
Local Paddy (ac)                   1o4     009       5.6       3e5     11o2       7.0
HYV Paddy (ac)                      -      o.6                2D4                 4o8
Cotton (ac)                         -      0.6        -        2.4       -        4.8
GrM   Pndnt (ac)                   0.2     0.2       0.8       0.8      1.6       1.6
Pulses (ac)                        001     001       0.3       0.3      0.6       0.6
Vegetables (ac)                        -         -             0.2      -         0.4
Total Cropped Area (ac)            1.7     2.4       6.7      9.6      13.4      19.2
Cropping  itensity (%)              85     120        84      120        84       120
Gross Value of Production (K)       04   1,248     1,986    5,541     3,971    11,083
Cash Production Costs (K) 4/        94     301       374     1,2248     748     2,495
Labor Requirement (mand    4)      (60)   (140)     (238)     (586)    (476)   (1,171)
Cost of Hired Labor (K ) /          -                 -     1,384       941     3,724
Taxes (K)                            4       4        16        16       32        32
Capital Cost of Pump 6/                                       381                 761
0 & M for Pumps (K)                 -       24        -       744        -      1,488
Net Farm Income (K)                406     919       5966                       2,283
IL_ -                          -          _.  _
1/ Assumed to rent pump from primary coope:rative @ K 12/ac.
2/ Assumed to be part of a group of laers that own      a pump.
3/ P = Present;    W - &ture with project.
IV  Frox Annex 15, Table 90
3/ Based on 240 ma-days per year family labor and K 4/man-day for hired labor.
76/ Btll cost of pump at official exchange frate (K 3,708) amortized over average life
of pump (4 years), prorated by service area (each pump assumed to serv-e 27 ac),



ANNX 15
EBURMh
IRIGATION I PROJECT
Faxm Budgets
2 ac Farm           8 ac Farn
p1/      w          P        w
MINOR FLOOD EMBANKMENTS
Local Paddy (ac)                        2.0      1.7         8.0      6.8
HYV Paddy (ac)                           -       0.3          -       1.2
Groundnuts (ac)                          -       0.1          -       0.2
Pulses (ac)                             -        0.1                  0.2
Total Cropped Area (a.c)               2.0       282 8.1 8.4
Cropping Txtensity (%)                  100      110        100       105
3ross Value of Production (j) 2/       498     1,012      1,992     3,877
Cash Production Cos ts (K) -            88       157        352       592
Labor Requirement (man-days) 2/         (68)     (90)      (272)     ( 347)
Cost of Hired Labor (K) /                -        -          128      428
Taxes (K)                                 4        4          16       16
0 & M for ESnbankments (K)               -        14          56       56
Net FDarm Income (K)                   406       37       1440      27_8
1/  P = Present;    W = Ftuxre with project.
?.  From Annex 15, Tale 10.
3/  B3sed on 240 man-days per year family labor ac K 4/man-day hird labor.



ANNEX 16
Page 1
BURMA
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The following assumptions were made in evaluating the project's
rate of return.
(a)  Benefits.  The expected crop yields, prices, gross returns,
production costs, net returns (without accounting for labor
or 0 & M costs) and labor requirements per ac are shown in
Annexes 12 and 15. Farm-gate prices for paddy, jute and
cotton used in the economic analysis were derived from the
Bank's world market price projections for 1980 in 1974
currency values wlhile prices for minor crops were based on
domestic market prices (Annex 14).
(b) Project Life. The life of the small pump irrigation
sub-project was taken as 20 years. Since the pumps would
have an average useful life of five or six years in Lower
Burma and four years in Upper Burma (Annex 11), it was
assumed that pumps would be replaced twice in Lower Burma
if jute is grown as a dry season crop, two and a half times
if HYV paddy is grown and three times in Upper Burma over
the 20 year period. The life of the mainor embankments
sub-project was taken as 30 years.
(c)  Investment Costs. All in'vEatment costs except price con-
tingencies (K 3.5 million) have been included in the economic
analysis. For the small pumps, the cost of replacement
pumps including physical contingencies, at constant 1974
prices, has been included in the cost stream.
(d)  Development Period. It has been assumed that full project
benefits would be achieved in eight years, or 1982 (Annex 12).
(e)  Pricing of Labor. Farm la'or was evaluated at a seasonally
adjusted market wage rate. The economic cost of farm labor
varies between project areas, and is equivalent to pricing
all incremental farm labor at about 70% of the peak season
market wage of K 4 per man day for the small pump sub-
project in Lower Burma and 60% in Upper Burma and for the
minor embankments sub-project. No distinction between family
and hired labor was made in the economic analysis. Unskilled
labor used in construction was priced at the Government
minimum wage of K 3.85 per man-day. A detailed analysis of
the labor situation in the project areas is presented in
Annex 13.



ANNEX 1 6
Page 2
(f)  Pricing of Foreign Exchange. All conversions from foreign
exchange to local currency were made at a shadow exchange
rate of K 10.00 = US$1.00 (Annex 14).
2.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting project benefits
and costs over the respective sub-project lives, the economic rate of return
for the small pump irrigation sub-project is estimated to be 42% if jute
is grown as a dry season crop in Lower Burma and 52% if HYV paddy is grown,
and for the minor embankments sub-project, 22% (Table 1). The rate of return
was not computed for the repair of construction equipment. However, an
investciiWnt of US$3.7 milliorn equivalent would rehabilitate about US$20
million worth of equipment which would be used to complete ongoing irrigation
and flood control projects to serve some 144,000 ac. The net economic
benefits would therefore be substantial.
3.        It should be noted that the economic rate of return from small
pump irrigation in Lower Burma would be higher if HYV paddy is grown as a
dry season crop than if jute is grown. Similarly the farm budget analysis
indicates that the financial return from growing dry season HYV paddy would
be greater than that from growing jute (Annex 15, Table 11). It would
therefore appear that at the relative economic and financial prices assumed
in this analysis, HYV paddy would be grown instead of jute, and the return
to the economy would be higher. On. the other hand, for the financial
analysis, it was assumed that only half the paddy produced is sold at the
official producer price and half is sold at a higher free market price
approximating the economic price, while all jute is sold at the official
price. If more paddy is sold at the official price, or if the local free
market price is lower than assumed, or if GOB raises the official producer
price of jute relative to paddy to encourage its increased production,
farmers would have a greater incentive to grow jute. For the economic
analysis, if the world market price of jute relative to paddy turns out
to be higher than assumed, the economic rate of return from growing jute
would be higher. The important point is that whichever crop actually
appears in the cropping pattern, the economic rate of return would be quite
substantial under a range of reasonable price assumptions.
.ensitivity_Analy_is
4.        Several of the basic assumptions made in the economic analysis
have been varied in order to examine their impact on the rates of return.
The effects of the various assumptions on the rates of return are as follows:



ANNEX 16
Page 3
Alternative
Rate of
(a)  Small Pum2-Irrigation.                                   Return
(%)
(i) Pumps not replaced after first set wears
out, and project life consequently
reduced to 8 years                                     35
(ii)  Command area of pumps reduced by 25% to
22.5 ac in Lower Burma and 20 ac in
Upper Burma                                            31
(iii)  (i) and (ii) combined                                  23
(iv) Sub-project areas in Upper Burma considered
separately                                             31
(v) All farm labor priced at peak market wage
of K 4 per man-day                                     29
(vi)  Official exchange rate of K 4.815 = US$1.00            13
(b) Minor Embankments.
(i) Construction cost overrun of 15% and
corresponding benefit slip                             14
(ii)  Maintenance cost overrun of 25%                        22
(iii)  Benefits decreased by 25%                              18
(iv) All farm labor priced at peak market wage
of K 4 per man-day                                     21
(v)  Official exchange rate of K 4.815mUS$1.00              14



BUIM
IRRIGATION I PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Small Pump Irrigation
-- --------------------- Project Costs -----------------------           -------------------- Project Benefits 2/--------------------
Year         Capital           O&M0 -        Farm Labor          Total                 Paddy         Jute     Cotton    Other 3/      Total
(I) 4~/ (II)5/   (I)    (II)      MI     (II)      MI     (I)            MI     (II)      (I)                           MI    (FII)
------------------------------------------------------- US$ million 2----------------------------------------------------- ------
1         *      *         0      0         0      0                               0     0         0          0        0         0      0
2        2.5    2.5       0.2    0.2       0.2    0.1       2.9    2.8            0.1   0.5       0.4         0       0.1       0.6    0.6
3        3.3    3.3       0.8    0.9       0,6    0.5       4.7   4.7             0.4    1.5       1.0       0.1      0.4       1.9    2.0
4        3.2    3.2       1.8    1.9       1 5    1.2       6.5    6.3            1.1    4.2       2.7       0.3       0.9       5.0   5.4
5         0      0        2.3    2.5       2.5    2.0       4.8    4.5            1.8    6.8       4.4       0.5       1.5       8.2    a.8
6         0      0        2.4    2.6       3.3    2.6       5.7    5.2            2.3    8.8       5.7       0.7       1.9      10.6   11.4
7        0.6    2.3       2.4    2.6       3.6    2.9       6.6    7.8            2.6    9.9      6.4       0.8       2.1      11.9   12.8
8        2.3    3.2       2.4    2.6       3.8    3.0       8.5    8.8            2.6   10.1       6.6      0.8        2.3     12.3   13.2
9        2.6    2.6       2.4    2.6       3.8    3.0       8.8    8.2            2.7   10.4       6.7       0.8       2.3      12.5   13.5
10        2.6     0        2.4    2.6       3.8    3.0       8.8    5.6            2.7   10.4       6.7       0.8       2.3      12.5  13.5
11        0.6    0.6       2.4    2.6       3.8    3.0       6.8    6.2            2.7   10.4       6.7       0.8       2.3      12.5   13.5
12        0.6    2.3       2.4    2.6       3.8    3.0       6.8    7.9            2.7   10.4       6.7       0.8      2.3       12.5  13.5
13         0     2.6       2.4    2.6       3.8    3.0       6.2    8.2            2.7   10.4       6.7       0.8       2.3      12.5   13.5
14        1.7    2.6       2.4    2.6       3.8    3.0       7.9    8.2            2.7   10.4       6.7       0.8       2.3      12.5   13.5
15        3.2    0.6       2.4    2.6       3.8    3.0       9.4    6.2            2.7   10.4       6.7       0.8       2.3      12.5   13.5
16        3.2    0.6       2.4    2.6       3.8    3.0       9.4    6.2            2.7   10.4       6.7       0.8       2.3      12.5   13.5
17         0     1i7       2 4    2w6       3.8    3.0       6.2    7.3            2.7   10.4       6.7      r0.8       2.3      12.5   13.5
18         0     2.6       2.4    2.6       3.8    3.0       6.2    8.2            2.7   10.4       6.7       0.8       2.3      12.5   13.5
19-20      0      0        2.4    2.6       3.8    3.0       6.2    5.6            2.7   10.4       6.7       0.8       2.3      12.5   13.5
Economic Rate of Return                                                                                                          42%    52%
Minor Flood Embankment                      -
--        Project Costs ------------                -- Project Benefits 2/ --
Capital   O4       Labor      Total                Paddy   Other 3/    Total
-----------------------------(US$ '000) ----------------------------------
1            6       0        0            6                  0         0          0
2        1,273       0        0        1,273                  0         0          0
3          881       0        0          881                  0         0          0
4          130       7        9          146                110         8        118
5       -1,142 6/   16       23       -1,103                275        20        295
6            0      16       37           53                440        32        472
7            0      16       44           60                522        38        560
8            0      16       45           61                539        39        578
9-30          0      1b       46           62                550        40        590
Economic Rate of Return                                                           22%
* Less than US$50,000 equivalent.
1/ K 10.00 = US$1.00.
2/ Incremental Net Value of production from Annex 12, Table 4, phasing according co Annex 12, Table 5.
3/ Other crops are groundnuts, pulses and vegetables (small pump irrigation only).                                                                               r >
4/  I   Irrigated jute growm in Lower Burma, Dry Season.                                                      -                                                     .--
5/ II = Irrigated HYV paddy grown in Lower Burma, Dry Season.                                                                                                      a,
6/ Residual value of equipment after construction is completed.



9160  <\                     100
HUAN.    '                1                                      h. 7woundanes ~h,uni~,ithis map do not
u T                                                               bmply endors e eHnt or acceptance by the
INIACHN
3AGLADESH/  .                       NI
-i  ?   <'~~     To Dibrugarh  -  to a
B U R M A    NOT                                        zI
K'  RM  -s\.KNORTH                ,f_~
At'-\VIETJrAM
.C H I N A
.'w >. \,~r]\                7S     ,;   I    /             CHINA
/LAOS
N - =rg~c~ng                          k     ) \   -,-.  K A  C  BH   I  N  /
J) iALAND     )ST A T E
slAndarman  .   KHMER  (        .y -I Myitkyina
RhEPUBLIC                                      e
-t SOUTH    .,
Thai/and  IETNAM  //isKnmn<
a ,  ;' 7  a/Gno             /9's-                  To i unemn
I . . t's     af.-'Hanoi
-I.g ;.               1'.3      J,,l   1-'t         t t.N
½  <     (   .    .g-j             C t,. (          -t 1    ,(       8>      ,
E                                             ii
2)     A-                               I.,L§4                     '19 a6f-r C in  s
|' B'4                                r ym~j oK i- rkA7 f* 2  4S } ^   'cdEnlek<'~
kYt       7 ?  i XJ4KF k  P   Y aIOrA  F  Bz\rt           C2, K  H  1>  !)  t   U
T [                               r             Ksz  ;K  ty PM)(
|,            ?  SEE DE-lLE  MAP |¶.%f 0     SEE DEAIE  MAP
.in R     ;R  lEA  /037                 7/ *8 .vni
V                                                      an  Bago \~-r-
TVYO A xBNGO
Ia                        Sando 0)S (OD        onS                2
|-                                         7                        1DBETRC180WY  Sea)3
SEMEAIL IEDS MAP         /2  C   y   eg  ts ?..
O   10BAD30         10736     \.        T
0< 5ne0 4100o 15                                     THAILAND'        w
0ie                                             .~ mfO
iV         96°ON o        .  \00                  co
BURM  A,Y
IRRGAIO           I    ROEC                          8
14   LCAIO     O  POJCTARASI4
MAIN  IVER                                  Merui~Vt§'Y
NAVIGABLETRIVERSMAP
O  100   200D3007400
Ki lameders
/                            mggy
O   50   10   150 200  25                           / Jn
I  I  I  I                 A,
Miles                                                                     m
CarC



IRRIGATION I PROJECT
S MALL  PU MP   I RR IGA TION  SUB PROJECT     IN LOW#ER   B UR MA  AN D
NORTHKYr N
8UM  . ~       .                     fIIIJMINOR                                     FLOOD   EMBANKMENT       S UB  PROJECT
MYANAUN~G
AQ    NIr5D1Y                                                                                      AREAS UNDER SMALL PUMP IRRIGATION SUB PROJECT
~ EXISTING EMBANKMENTS
EMBANKMENTS TO BE REHIABILITATED UNDER PROJECT
THA&ILANO                                                                                               NEW EMBANKMENTS UNDER PROJECT
20 ~                                                                       AREAS PROTECTED BY MINOR FLOOD EMBANKMENT SUB PROJECT
,~\K#JHDANUBYU                                                                  TOWNS WITH SERVICE STATION FOR PUMPS
ANDAMAlN SEA: j                            7                                                                HENZADA   TOWNS WITH MAJOR REPAIR AND SERVICE STATION FOR PUMPS
ROADS                                         180-
GULP OF       ?
'7THAILAND  I--+-----RIWY
SWAMPS
I                                                     MUD AREAS
The ounnetshoton hismap ono  '.CAPITAL
hm .,                th'. Io¶.INhGAB                                                                                  C)     OTHER CITIES OR TOWNS
- -  DIVISIONAL AND STATE BOUNDARIES
- -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ARAKAN STATE
10        21           040
LENIYEI-InAMILES
PEYUODVISIO
THABAUNG
170                                                                                        1HLAWGA
o                                     KA
=INIE                                           KTYA                     c.NSEIN'J     05(~
TI-IOGWA          KATWE
O        OTAGUNDAING
C           *)     cANAL   (
MALIB IN1                               EPN
-~                                               THLEGANGON
ISLANDW
-                      TAUNGBOGYI
a  0~cH4INA s%                               i
ItdEl~ ~.DEDAYE
GON                        TAMATAKAW
-                       OBOGALE       PYAPON
b-LABUTA



;.:r4T~.4                 /NOVEMBER97
MAWLAWLIN
~  SURMA  t\rNR         %
AG NGKYUNHLA-                                                                           [           LAOS~
I  -~~      DIVISION                                 ~AREA OF MAP                                   (--*-K*
I                             THAILANYD
KALEMIYO  -KANBALU
itANDAMAN SE-A                                      1  -..\KHMER REPtIBLICt
TO EHAMO
TAZE                                                                *
I        ~MOGOK_GLFO
M INKN K IN                                                                                                THAILAND7
LU                                                                        TO LASHIO
Sn'HtVEBC                                                   -
KANE ~        BTLIN                FWETLET                                S   A        T   T
uf  (                                 ~~AH-YADAW  '-
~ ~MDAYA             TO LASHIO
5 GANGAW'~\\              MBI'__
PLE
0  UNESAKAN
HTELIN
PAUK                                           NATHOGYIIR                          G    T      O   NP           OJ    C
AREAS UNDER SMALL PUMIP IRRIGATION SUB PROJECT
2t'   /SAGAING                                                                                                   TOWNS WITH SERVICE STATION FOR PUMPS  210
GWE BIN                                                                       MADLYTOWN WITH MAJOR REPAIR AND SERVICE STATION
:  FOR PUIMPS
K                      CHU           I'AP              EiKHTi                                       ROADS
--I--- RAILWAYS
C) CITIES OR TOWNS
~       * -DIVISIONAL AND STATE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\SETOTTARA C
2G            O  P WITAU                                    GOWIGYIGY                                              MILS                  20
MiNALAAUK
S  TAT  ETHAWUTT
M0INDAPEMITHAYETA;IGTO RANGOONLESK0                                                                                                     20a
S                                                     N    ST(
SIBANG



