CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 483 BA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 21, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 483 BA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 21, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1974, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
THE UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Area" means an area of about 293,000 acres in the Irrawaddy
Delta of Lower Burma and 27,000 acres in the central dry zone of Upper Burma;
and
(b)   "MAF" means Ministry of Agriculture and Forests of the Borrower.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 1
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing
August 1, 1984, and ending February 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Director-General of the Irrigation Department, or any other
person duly authorized by him in writing, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be carried out, Parts A(i) and
(ii) of the Project by its Agricultural Mechanization Department, Part A(iii) of
the Project by its Agriculture Corporation, and Parts B, C and D of the Project
by its Irrigation Department with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, agricultural, financial and administrative practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the fi.inds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i)         ensure that adequate quantities of fuel oil and lubricants required
for the irrigation pumps to be procured under the Project will
be supplied at all times and maintained at A sufficient number
of sale points and with running stocks sufficient to operate the
pumps to be procured under the Project; and
(ii)        provide adequate credit to the agencies operating such sale points
in order to enable such agencies to maintain the required stock
of fuel oil and lubricants.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Committee
under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister of MAF, with such composition
and functions as shall be mutually agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, to direct and supervise the implementation and to monitor the benefits
of the Project.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.


﻿6
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the.Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof. To that end the Borrower shall cause each
of its agencies responsible for implementing the project to maintain separate
accounts for the sub-project under their responsibility, and shall cause MAF to
furnish to the Association copies of the unaudited annual project accounts within
four months of the end of each fiscal year, to be followed by audited accounts
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by the


﻿7
Director-General, Central Audit and Inspection Office, acting on behalf of the
Council of Pyithu's Inspectors of the Borrower, with translations in English of
the auditor's report within six months of the end of each fiscal year, together
with a translation of the auditor's comments.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause its Irrigation Department to operate
and maintain the works included in Part B of the Project in accordance with
generally acceptable standards and shall provide promptly as needed the funds for
the purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its Agriculture Corporation to provide
adequate extension services and to make available adequate amounts of seeds and
fertilizer to farmers throughout the Project Area.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)   establish a separate account for that part of the proceeds of the sale
of the pumps and accessories included in Part A(i) of the Project which represents
the cost of such pumps and accessories financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
and
(b)   except as the Association shall otherwise agree, commencing within
two years from the date of this Agreement or such other date as may b( agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association, use the funds in such account
to provide to farmers medium and long-term credit, amounting in the aggregate
only to the equivalent of the cost of such pumps and accessories financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, through credit institutions acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of MAF and,


﻿8
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of MAF and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them        of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿9
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Project Committee
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement shall have been established.
Section 8.02. The date August 21, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Planning and Finance or the Deputy Minister
of Planning and Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry for Planning and Finance
Ministers' Office Post Office
Rangoon, Burma


﻿10
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
By /s/ U. Lwin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A.    Small Pump
Irrigation
1.        Pumps and                     7,700,000         100% of foreign
Accessories                                    expenditures for
imported equip-
ment, or 100% of
local expenditures
at ex-factory
price
2.         Workshop Equip-                700,000         100% of foreign
ment and Tools                                 expenditures
3.         Equipment and                  400,000         100% of foreign
Imported Mate-                                 expenditures
riaTs for Jute
Baling Plants
Part B.    Minor Flood
Embankment
4.         Imported Mate-                 200,000         100% of foreign
riafs                                          expenditures
5.         Construction                 1,500,000         100% of foreign
Equipment and                                  expenditures
Spare Parts
Part C.    Repair of
Construction
Equipment
6.         Spare Parts                  2,200,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
Part D.    Feasibility Studies
7.         Consulting                     300,000         100% of foreign
Services                                       expenditures
8.         Unallocated                  4,000,000
TOTAL             17,000,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied f-om, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,


﻿13
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of local expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the provision of small irrigation pumps, the
construction and rehabilitation of minor flood embankments in the Project Area,
the repair of construction equipment, and feasibility studies, and includes:
Part A.    Small Pump Irrigation
(i)        Provision of about 9000 sets of 4 in. low lift pumps and
about 1000 sets of 4 in. high lift pumps, both driven by
diesel engines, and sale of such pumps and accessories to
groups of farmers and cooperatives.
(ii)       Provision of workshop equipment and tools for five major
repair and service stations for pumps - four in Lower
Burma (Henzada, Myaungmya, Wakema and Maubin) and
one in Upper Burma (in the Mandalay Division).
(iii)      Establishment of four jute baling plants, each with a
capacity of about 7,000 tons per year, for baling the
increased jute production under the Project.
Part B.    Minor Flood Embankment
(i)        Rehabilitation and improvement of the Dhantape drain
and embankment and construction of a reinforced
concrete sluice at the mouth of the drain.
(ii)       Construction of a new Kattiya-Tagundaing embankment.
(iii)      Rehabilitation  and  strengthening  of  the  existing
Kaleik-Tawkanoot embankment and an extension of the
existing embankment.
(iv)       Rehabilitation and strengthening of the Kawe-Thandin
embankment    and   an  extension  of the   existing
embankment.
Part C.    Repair of Construction Equipment
Provision of spare parts necessary for the repair of the
construction equipment of the Borrower's Irrigation
Department and repair of such equipment.


﻿15
Part D.     Feasibility Studies
(i)         Review and updating of the feasibility study financed by
the United Nations Development Programme for the Mu
River Irrigation Project.
(ii)        Completion of the feasibility study of another high
priority irrigation project to be selected by the Borrower,
in consultation with the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1977.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Goods to be Awarded under International Competitive Bidding
1.    Any contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or more
shall be awarded on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the guidelines referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, and
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Association shall be furnished, for its
comments, with the text of the invitations to bid and the qualifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and such modifications in the said documents or
procedure shall be made as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Soon after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, and before a final decision
on the award is made, the Association shall be informed of the name of the bidder
to whom it is intended to award the contract and the Association shall be furnished,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower, stating the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
B.    Contracts for Goods to be Awarded under Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000 each may be procured
without resort to international competition, provided that (i) such items of goods


﻿17
are procured on the basis of reasonable and competitive procurement procedures,
including but not limited to the solicitation of not less than three price quotations
and (ii) the total cost of items of goods procured pursuant to this paragraph does
not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $50,000.
2.    Spare parts included in Part C of the Project may be procured under
procedures other than those referred to in Sections A and B(i) of this Schedule
after consultation with the Association on the procedures to be followed and the
bid prices offered.
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the evaluation of bids
in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for Procurement referred to
in Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
2.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
equipment a margin of preference may be granted to goodF manufactured in the
Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Socialist
Republic of the Union of Burma if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering goods manufactured in the Socialist
Republic of the Union of Burma, other than bids classified in
Group A.
(3)   Group C:   bids offering any other goods.


﻿18
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


