                                                                E1374 V2

               Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education
                         Willy Thorpe Building
                                  Banjul
_________________________________________________________________




  DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL AUDIT REPORT ON THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT AND EFA-
                 FTI CATALYTIC FUND

   PART 1: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL FRAMEWORK (ESMF)




One of the newly constructed staff quarters




                                                            Bolong L. Sonko
                                                             Consultant

                                              August 2013

                                                   i
Table of contents

Section                                                                                Page

List of Acronyms-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------iii


Executive Summary---------------------------------------------------------------------------------iv


1.0       INTRODUCTION--------------------------------------------------------------------------1
2.0       PROJECT BACKGROUND-------------------------------------------------------------1
          2.1      Project Components----------------------------------------------------------------1
          2.2      Project Sites-------------------------------------------------------------------------2
          2.3      Project Activities-------------------------------------------------------------------5
          2.4      Environmental and Social Assessment of the Project-------------------------6
          2.5      Objectives of the Audit -----------------------------------------------------------6
 3.0      METHODOLOGY-------------------------------------------------------------------------6
 4.0      POLICY AND LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR THE ESMF------------7
          4.1      National Policy and Regulatory Frameworks & Guidelines-----------------7
          4.2      World Bank Safeguard Policies--------------------------------------------------7
          4.3      Major Areas of Concern Identified by the ESMF-----------------------------8
 5.0      FINDINGS----------------------------------------------------------------------------------10
          5.1      Compliance with the ESMF-----------------------------------------------------10
          5.2      Environmental and Health Concerns Arising out of the Field Visit-------12
 6.0      RECOMMENDED MITIGATION MEASURES----------------------------------15
 7.0      MONITORING PROGRAMME------------------------------------------------------16
 8.0      RECOMMENDATIONS FO FUTURE INERVENTIONS ---------------------18


LIST OF TABLES
Table 1 Adverse Environmental Impact due to Infrastructure
                   Construction / Rehabilitation----------------------------------------------------11
Table 2            Assessment of ESMF Recommended Actions to be taken During Project
                   Implementation -------------------------------------------------------------------11
Table 3            Assessment of the Costs of Implementation of Remedial Measures
                  with a Timetable-------------------------------------------------------------------18



                                                             i
ANNEXES
Annex 1     List of Project Sites-----------------------------------------------------------------20
Annex2      Assessment forms/Discussion Point---------------------------------------------23
Annex3      List of Persons Contacted---------------------------------------------------------28
Annex4      List of schools visited During Field Trip---------------------------------------29
Annex 5     Programme for the Training Workshop---------------------------------------33
Annex6      Summary of Discussions held with Stakeholders-----------------------------35
Annexx6.5   Some Photos of Sites Visited------------------------------------------------------40
Annex 7     Bibliography--------------------------------------------------------------------------42
Annex 8     Terms of Reference for an Environmental and Social Audit of the
            Implementation of the Third Education Project and
            the EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund-----------------------------------------------------43




                                                       ii
Acronyms

  1. EFA        -   Education For All
  2. EFP        -   Environment Focal Point
  3. EIA        -   Environmental Impact Assessment
  4. EMP        -   Environmental Management Plan
  5. ESIA       -   Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
  6. ESMF       -   Environmental and Social Management Framework
  7. FIOH       -   Future In Our Hands
  8. FTI        -   Fast Track Initiative
  9. GAMWORKS -     Gambia Agency for Public Works
  10. GEAP      -   Gambia Environment Action Plan
  11. IDA       -   International Development Association
  12. MoBSE     -   Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education
  13. MOHERST   -   Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology
  14. NAWEC     -   National Water and Electricity Company
  15. NEA       -   National Environment Agency
  16. NGO       -   Non Government Agency
  17. PAP       -   Project Affected Persons
  18. PCU       -   Projects Coordination Unit (Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education)
  19. RAP       -   Resettlement Action Plan
  20. RPF       -   Resettlement Policy Framework
  21. STI       -   Science and Technology Innovation
  22. WB        -   World Bank




                                        iii
                                        EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Government of The Gambia, through the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education (MoBSE), has
been implementing the Third Education Sector Project with financing from International Development
Association (IDA) and the Education For All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA- FTI) Catalytic Fund. The main
Project objective is to improve the conditions for teaching and learning in basic education by: (i)
improving performance of students, teachers and schools; (ii) strengthening capacity building and
performance management, and enhancing monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) continuing expansion of
effective access to under-served communities.

The three main components of the Project are: (i) Improving the conditions for teaching and learning; (ii)
Strengthened capacity building, performance management, and monitoring and evaluation; and (iii)
Expansion of Effective Access
The project activities that could potentially trigger the environmental and social safeguards were the civil
works under Component 3 which consisted of building and furnishing a total of 252 classrooms, 35 staff
quarters and 20 water points (8 boreholes and 12 concrete lined wells).

An initial environmental assessment has placed the project in Category B. As the specific subproject sites
were not identified at the time of appraisal an Environmental and Social Management Framework
(ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were prepared to evaluate the potential
environmental and social impacts of the project. According to these safeguard instruments all
infrastructural subprojects are to be screened before implementation starts and where the results indicate
adverse impacts mitigation measure should be developed to reduce, minimise or prevent the negative
impacts. In cases of major negative environmental impacts the ESMF recommended a separate
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).

The objectives of the audit are:
   i.  Verify compliance with legal provisions, including compliance with national legislation
        and safeguards policies and procedures of the World Bank;
  ii.  Identify and manage knowingly cases of non-compliance of said safeguard instruments;
 iii.  Improve communication on the management of the project safeguard requirements;
 iv.   Assess the environmental and social performance of compensatory/mitigation measures
       recommended by different studies. That is, the Environmental and Social Management
       Framework (ESMF) and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), that have been prepared to
       guide the implementation of the projects on environmental on safeguards grounds.

The present audit report, Part 1, deals specifically with the ESMF which examines the potential negative
environmental impacts. The RPF which examines the potential social impacts as a result of land
acquisition is in Part II of the audit report.

The methodology consisted of reviews of relevant background documents (both print and electronic),
consultations with the various stakeholders and field visits. The consultations took the form of interviews,
administration of assessment forms/questionnaires. Over 35 schools were visited spread in all the
regions.


                                                    iv
A.      FINDINGS

The findings relate to the question of compliance with ESMF and the outcome of the field visit.

There has been a lack of compliance with the ESMF. Subprojects were not screened, the recommended
management structures such as the Environmental Focal Points were not set up and no capacity building
programmes were undertaken. The National Environment Agency expected to play a key role in the
environmental assessment and monitoring was not involved. Discussions on their possible involvement
only started at the end of last year with the discussions on a collaborative framework. In fact many of the
key stakeholders are not aware of the ESMF.

During the field visit the following points were also considered: (i) the conformity of the education
subprojects with World Bank Safeguards and national legislations; (ii) Environmental and social aspects
in the preparation of technical documents; (iii)Environmental and social impacts of the works; (iv)
Capacity for monitoring the environmental and social aspects at the regional levels.

Conformity with the WB Safeguards Policies and Procedures and the National Legislations
Although the subprojects were not subjected to screening as required by the ESMF the small size of the
infrastructure works did not have any major negative impact on the environment. Nonetheless the
relatively simple nature of the works calls for an Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP)
with environmental and social clauses included in the tender documents.

Environmental and Social aspects in the preparation and implementation of Projects
Although the tender documents and the implementation plans did not include environmental and social
clauses the actual design of the schools took account of certain social concerns such as gender with many
of the schools provided with separate toilets for boys and girls. All classroom buildings have handicap
access facility. These measures were made possible because in the Fast-Track projects these
environmental prescriptions are already included in the contract documents.

Assessment of the negative environmental and social impacts
Although no major negative environmental impacts were linked to the construction of the schools and
staff quarters, there were some concerns which needed to be addressed and these include:

- Lack of water connection for the toilets
Some of the newly constructed toilets especially in the Greater Banjul Area such as Serrekunda Lower
Basic were not being used because the water pressure from the National Water Supply
Company(NAWEC) was said too low to allow the use of the newly constructed toilets. In Madina
Kunkunding Lower Basic in Gunjur flush toilets were constructed when there is neither pipe borne water
nor any indication as to when it will be available. Currently both the children and staff are using the
traditional, unhygienic pit latrines.

-Poor Drainage and the Risks of Flooding
Some of the schools are also located in flood prone areas with high water table as in Tallinding Annex
where, during the rainy season, access to and use of the foreground is difficult due to flooding. In
addition, there are the health implications of these flood waters which become breeding grounds for

                                                    v
  mosquitoes and other vectors.
  The new Brusubi Upper Basic is located in a slight depression which may also suffer flooding because the
  natural drainage for these waters has now been obstructed by a road constructed to the south.

    Staff Quarters
    With respect to the staff quarters the following observations could be made:
  i.    Generally the rooms are considered small particularly for teachers with a family
 ii.    The position of the bed just by the window does not provide much security for the occupants
        particularly in areas close to conflict zones such as in Wasadun near the Casamance border. Broken
        louver glasses will easily expose the bed and its occupant.
iii.    The use of louvers in remote areas presents a special challenge when it comes to repairs. Not only the
        chances of breakage are high as it has already started happening but repairs could take a long time to
        be effected because of the absence of materials and skilled workers in these villages. Another point
        on this issue is the quality of wire gauze used. Less than six months after occupation of the houses the
        wire gauzes have been torn in many houses.
iv.     In some of the newly constructed staff houses the backyard has not been paved nor is there an outlet
        for the water that is likely to accumulate when it rains. This situation will certainly result in flooding
        with the potential of becoming breeding ground for mosquitoes.

  Toilets
   -      With the toilets the most serious defect is the aesthetic impact in terms of the smell and bad odour
          that filter into the backyard and the living rooms especially in the evenings and at night. The
          toilets in question do not have ventilation pipes and because of the exposure to light flies can
          easily access it.

  Kitchens
  -      The kitchens do not have chimneys for the evacuation of smoke even though most of the people
         asked about the likely fuel to be used for cooking meals said firewood. Cooking in these kitchens
         would be very inconvenient if not impossible if one is to use firewood.

  Water Supply facilities
  -      For the wells with hand pumps the concern is that the two halves of the concrete slab covering the
         well have not been properly sealed with the result that some of the water pumped out of the well
         seeps back into the wells through the space between the two halves of concrete slabs.

  -        For the solar powered water supply systems the main concern is with drainage of the waste which
           collects around the tap rather than draining into the school garden where it was planned to go to.

  Safety Concerns of Workers at Subproject sites
  -      During visits to the few sites where construction was taking place many of the workers were seen
         not wearing protective dresses (helmet, safety/security shoes) contrary to health and safety
         standards at construction sites.




                                                         vi
Capacity for Environmental and Social Monitoring at Regional level
-      Although the PCU has deployed construction monitors in each of the regions their terms of
       reference does not specifically include environmental monitoring even though with some
       training they could very well carry out this function. At present however, they concentrate more
       on the technical aspects of the works at the expense of environmental and social concerns.
       Although NEA has focal points in the regions the project has not made use of the services of
       these people. With some basic training the capacity of the monitors can be developed for them to
       carry out the monitoring.

Other Environmental Concerns
-      During the field visits the consultant noted the continued presence of asbestos as roofing
       materials for schools even though this product is known to have serious negative impact on
       human health. In one of the schools visited, Serrekunda Lower Basic, the roof is old and broken
       in some parts and will leak in the coming rainy season.

B)      RECOMMENDED MITIGATION MEASURES

On the basis of the above findings the following mitigation measures are recommended some of which
require immediate action. The recommended mitigation measures together with costs, responsibilities and
timeline is indicated in the table below.

Water Connection to Toilets
Serrekunda Lower Basic and other schools in similar situation should be connected to NAWEC to ensure
that the toilets can be put into immediate use.
 For Madina Kunkunding in Gunjur where there is no running water, improved pit latrine (ventilated pit
latrines) need to be urgently constructed for the immediate use of the children instead of what is currently
being used.

Water Supply facilities
 For the hand pumps the space between the two halves of the concrete slabs should be properly sealed
before final payment to the contractor.
Proper drainage should be prepared for the waste water around taps to avoid pools around water points.

Use of Asbestos in Schools
The Ministry should have in place and implement, on an annual basis, a policy of changing all asbestos
roofs in the schools. As that of Serrekunda Lower Basic is in a deplorable condition this should be
replaced immediately before schools open in September.

Staff Quarters
-Pavement of the backyard with adequate slope and an outlet for the waste water.

Flooding
The case of Tallingding Annex is complex and will require an engineering solution as in the case of Barra
–Essau Upper Basic where the ground was filled and compacted before being paved. It is recommended,
in the first place, to have the school premise surveyed and a design prepared to ensure that water in the
                                                    vii
school grounds has a proper drainage outlet. Fencing of the school also needs to be completed to ensure
that flood waters do not enter the school grounds from outside.
As Brusubi Upper Basic is also likely to experience flooding similar intervention is required on the
drainage system so that the water from the school can be drained without causing flooding problems for
the neighbours to the south.

Kitchens
-For immediate action the kitchens need to be fitted with chimneys. For environmental considerations
they also need to have energy saving cooking facilities such as the “sinkirikuto?. The greatest number of
users of these kitchens will be women and they also deserve some improvements in their work place.

Capacity Building
-Organise training workshops to develop the stakeholders’ capacity to undertake screening and
categorisation of subprojects at the decentralised levels and to undertake monitoring programmes. The
NEA will coordinate these training programmes as they have already conducted similar training in the
past at national level.
In addition to the national workshops it is recommended to have the official to be designated as the
environmental and social focal point within the PCU to undergo further intensive environmental and
social safeguards training for a better understanding of EA and monitoring approaches and procedures.
One such institute is SETYM where a course on “Social and Environmental Monitoring of Projects and
Programmes? will be organise in October this year.

Future Designs
Future design should review the position of the beds, the use of metal windows with metal louvers in
certain geographical areas and replacement of the present type of wire gauze with stronger and more
durable varieties.

Monitoring
To ensure compliance with the above recommended actions it is proposed to have a monitoring
programme at regional level to be executed by the construction monitors in the regions and at national
level by NEA. The objective of such a programme would be to ensure implementation of the approved
mitigation measures and to check for any unforeseen adverse environmental impacts and undertake
corrective measures.

Recommendations for Future Projects
The mitigation measures outlined above will go a long way in addressing the negative impacts observed
during the field visit. However, for future projects the negative points raised could be avoided or strongly
mitigated by implementing the following recommendations:
    1) Compliance with the ESMF guidelines to ensure that all subprojects are screened and
        environmental and social management plans are prepared for the new sites;
    2) Include environmental and social clauses in the tender documents and ensure NEA takes part in
        the tender process;
    3) Mainstream environmental and social safeguards guidelines in project implementation.

The effective implementation of these measures will require:

                                                    viii
      a.) The Designation of an environmental and Social Specialist within the PCU - who would
          coordinate the safeguards function of the project to ensure that environmental and social
          considerations are mainstreamed in project implementation. His responsibilities would entail,
          ensuring that: (i) subprojects are systematically screened to determine whether further
          environmental and/or social assessment is needed, or whether simple measures would suffice; (ii)
          bidding documents contain environmental and social clauses and that contractors fully implement
          those clauses; and (iii) compliance monitoring with Bank safeguard policies and national
          environmental laws and regulations is periodically carried out.
      b.) Ensuring that project environmental and social compliance monitoring is devolved to NEA to
          be formalized through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that clearly defines the role,
          modalities and frequency of intervention of the NEA in project monitoring.

Table: 3 an assessment of the costs of implementation of remedial measures with a timetable for
implementation

Sr.                                           Estimated      Responsibility
No.     Activity                              Cost                               Timeline
1.      Pavement of the backyard              -              contractors         immediate
2.      Replacement of ware gauge             -
3.      Improvement of kitchen with           To be          PCU to contract     Over period of 12
        improved cooking facilities and       determined     it out and          months
        chimneys.                                            supervise

4.      Seal the space between the two -                     Contractor          Immediate
        halves of the concrete slabs
5.      Construction of drainage for waste -                 Contractor          immediate
        water
6.      Safeguards Training Workshops      D250,000          PCU & NEA           July/August

7.      Monitoring: Regional level                -          Construction        Start immediate
                                                             Monitors
        Familiarisation tour nationwide       D100,000       NEA                 July
        Supervision tour nationwide           D100,000       NEA                 November
8       Finalisation and signature of MoU     -              MoBSE &NEA          Immediate
        between the MoBSE and NEA
9       Feasibility design of drainage at     75,000         PCU                 Immediate
        Tallinding Annex & Brusubi Upper
        Basic
10      Water Connection NAWEC                To be          PCU                 Immediate
                                              determined
11      Replacement of Asbestos Roofs         To be          PCU                 Immediate
                                              determined




                                                      ix
x
                                    ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The Consultant wishes to express gratitude to all the staff of the Ministry of Basic and Secondary
Education notably:
Mr. Baboucarr Boye – Permanent Secretary;
Mr. Sheriff Yunus Hydara – Manager, Projects Coordination Unit,
Mr. Ebou S. Gaye- Construction Manager,
Mr. Addison Gomez- Quantity Surveyor,
Mr. Sulayman Jarju- Construction Monitor, Region 6
Mr. Musa Jassy- Construction Monitor, Region 2

for their invaluable support and assistance.




                                                xi
1.0     INTRODUCTION

The Government of The Gambia, through the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education (MoBSE), has
been implementing the Third Education Sector Project with financing from International Development
Association (IDA) and the Education For All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA- FTI) Catalytic Fund. The main
Project objective is to improve conditions for teaching and learning in basic education by: (i) improving
performance of students, teachers and schools; (ii) strengthening capacity building and performance
management, and enhancing monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) continuing expansion of effective access
to under-served communities.
Funding for the Project came from an IDA loan of US $8million which was later increased by US $5.5
million- and from the EFA- FTI Catalytic Fund support of US $ 28 million.

2.0     PROJECT BACKGROUND

2.1      Project Components
The project has three main components:
Component 1: Improved conditions for teaching and learning- This component aims to provide
school-level pedagogic support through the training of pedagogic leaders and mentor teachers at the
schools as well as training teachers through high quality pre- and in-service training. This component also
supports the purchase of instructional materials, school improvement grants, scholarships for girls, and
tertiary education strategic studies.

In 2010 additional financing was obtained from the IDA to provide additional support to in-service
teacher training and to the Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology
(MOHERST) in order to enhance its capacity to provide relevant, sustainable and high quality higher
education, including its ability to lead in the development of science and technology innovation (STI).

Component 2: Strengthened capacity building, performance management, and monitoring and
evaluation- This component aims to provide technical assistance for functional analyses and to support
the creation of a more effective organizational structure within the Ministry of Basic and Secondary
Education. This component also supports improved performance monitoring by focusing on: career
development plans for teachers and of education personnel in general; signature of service level
agreements with all central and regional directorates; and award of team performance bonuses to those
teams that have fulfilled their annual work plan commitments. Lastly, this component supports
monitoring and evaluation activities, including training and technical assistance.

 Component 3: Expansion of Effective Access - This component aims to build or rehabilitate 36 urban
 classrooms in Region 2, 16 multi-grade classrooms in each of the four outlying regions; and provide
 6,000 learners with literacy training and with post-literacy support. In addition, 252 Classrooms were to
 be built country-wide, 35 staff quarters in Regions 2- 6 and 20 water points (8 Boreholes and 12 concrete
 lined wells) in Regions 2,3,4and 5.




                                                    1
 2.2 Project Sites

The geographical spread of the project sites is country wide covering all the six educational regions. The
biophysical environment of the country can be described as follows:

Geographic Location

The Gambia lies between 13.79o and 16.82o West longitude and entirely within 13o North latitude. It has
an estimated area of 11,300 km2 and is bounded by Senegal to the North, South and East and by the
Atlantic Ocean to the West. The country is widest at its westerly end towards the ocean, narrowing to
about half this width at its eastern tip, 480 km inland. The country is bisected by the River Gambia that
originates from the Fouta Djallon highlands, forming the North and South banks. Banjul is the
administrative centre and capital situated on an island on the southern bank at the mouth of the river.

Climate
 The country has a Sudano-Sahelian type of climate characterized by a long dry season from October to
early June and a short rainy season from mid-June to early October. Annual average rainfall ranges from
850mm to 1,200 mm and average temperatures range from 18 to 33oC. Relative humidity is around 68%
along the coast and 41% inland during the dry season and generally over 70% throughout the country
during the wet season.

Vegetation
 The Gambia’s vegetation is dominated by Savannah woodland. The Guinea Savannah, characterized by
broad-leafed trees, is dominant in the west of the country. The Guinea Savannah thins into the Sudan
Savannah, characterized by shrubs and grasslands, and moving east of the country. Gallery forests and
mangroves dominate the coastline vegetation, with the latter extending inland to the saline limit of the
estuary.
 Drainage
 The natural drainage in The Gambia is highly dependent on the river Gambia. As the River enters the
 Gambian territory, 480 kilometres from its source in the Fouta Djallon highlands in Guinea, it flows
 generally along an east-west axis, emptying west in the Atlantic Ocean. The major tributaries of The
 Gambia include the Sandougou, Nianija, Sofaniama, Bao and Bintang bolongs. Similar to the main
 river, a large portion of these catchments also overlie within neighbouring Senegal. Runoff generated
 from these catchments is however insignificant due to low gradients and permeable soils. Imperfectly
 drained depressions, inactive streams, and drainage channels further inhibit the runoff process.
Geology
The country occupies the south-central part of a regional sedimentary basin that extends along the coast of
West Africa from Mauritania to Guinea (Conakry) usually known as the Senegal Basin or now the
Mauritania, Senegal, The Gambia, Guinea Bissau and Guinea Conakry Basin (MSGBG).
The surface geology of The Gambia is entirely Upper Tertiary and Quaternary. The Upper Tertiary
consists of mainly poorly consolidated sandstones, white to pink or red in colour and they are composed
of quartz grains with very minor amounts of stable heavy minerals, such as ilmenite, zircon and rutile.
The clay stones are commonly kaolinitic.

                                                    2
Soils
Four basic elements make up the landscape of The Gambia. Flat areas, comprising the floodplain,
represent the recent past in which alluvial material was deposited. This landscape lies adjacent to the
main river and its major tributaries. Narrow bands of similar alluvium occur in the depressions associated
with the minor tributaries and subjected to water logging.
 Lying above the alluvial flats occur the colluvial slopes, being very gently sloping areas covered by the
colluvial deposits of eroded tertiary plateau. The remainder of the terrain comprises a tertiary plateau.
Demography
       The population of The Gambia has been put at 1.36 million (2003 Census) with an estimated
growth rate of 2.7% per annum. The age distribution of the population continued to skew towards the
younger age bands. Those aged 0-15 years comprise about 44% of the total population. This has a lot of
implications in the provision of social services and distribution of meagre resources.

Economy

The main features of The Gambian economy are its small size, a sparse natural resource endowment of
 exploitable mineral resources, a limited agricultural base and a nascent re-export trade with other
 countries in the sub region. The economy is thus dominated by services (tourism, transportation,
 telecommunication, etc.) and agriculture, which account for 59 and 30 percent of GDP respectively.
 Manufacturing and construction account for the remaining 10-11 percent. About 75% of the population
 depends on the agricultural sector for its livelihood, and small-scale manufacturing activity features the
 processing of peanuts, fish, and hides, thus underlining the heavy dependency of The Gambian economy
 on agriculture.

Poverty

Household surveys show poverty is found everywhere in The Gambia with major regional differences.
Poverty is highest in the rural areas where the main source of income is agriculture with the worse off
areas being the Central River and Upper River Regions. Poverty is highest among household heads
working in the agriculture and fishing industry which employs almost 52 per cent of the working
population. Poverty level in the Agriculture and Fisheries sectors is 43.6 per cent (using the less than
US$1 per person per day indicator) which compares with 0.4 percent in the Financial Management sector
which has the lowest poverty rate. (1)
Income distribution in Gambian society is highly unequal. The average per capita expenditure
(consumption) in the richest quintile is about seven times higher than the average per capita expenditure
(consumption) of the poorest quintile.




___________________________________________

    1.    Source: Government of the Gambia: 2008 Poverty Assessment & 2010 Integrated Household Survey

                                                      3
Water resources
Fresh water is abundantly available throughout the country with supplies from two major sand aquifers,
an upper or shallow aquifer at 10 m to 120m, and a deep one at depths of 250m to 450m as well as from
the River Gambia which represents about 20 percent of the country’s surface area and runs the entire
length of the country.
The main source of drinking water is the shallow aquifer. In general, the water quality of this aquifer is
good, with pH around 5 to 6. It is recharged by lateral flow, and rainfall, hence the through flow is
sensitive to rainfall.
2.3       Project Activities

The Project activities under the different components can be summarized as follows:

Component 1: Improved conditions for teaching and learning:
School-level pedagogic support: training for pedagogic leaders and mentor teachers at the schools;
training and monitoring tools for tracking school-level data including: instructional time, classroom
observation, attendance of school personnel and students;
       parental involvement, school-to-school cooperation; (training of 400 pedagogic leaders, 100
        senior and mentor teachers)
       Teacher training activities, including increased access to high quality pre- and in-service training
        for all teachers. The training would focus on improved classroom instruction, with certification
        possibilities for unqualified teachers at par with the certification of those graduating from Gambia
        College. Pedagogic and logistical support would be provided to cluster monitors, subject teacher
        associations and teacher trainers to ensure they are able to provide high-quality in-service
        training. (training of cluster monitors will happen under BESPOR, so the project would train 60
        members of subject teacher associations and an additional 30 teacher trainers)

       Training for head-teachers as pedagogic leaders, as school managers and community liaisons,
        both through regular face-to-face and through distance learning opportunities, and via peer
        support networks with model head-teachers from schools within their cluster; (training of 400
        head-teachers)

       Purchase of instructional materials, including textbooks and supplementary readers for grades 1-6
        with at least one textbook per student for each core subject. (200,000 textbooks for grades 1-6
        and 80,000 for grades 7-9)
       Capacity building at WAEC with an emphasis on sampling, statistical analysis and reporting of
        results. WAEC would also be provided with technical and training support, as well as with
        adequate equipment, in order to improve the reliability and the validity of the assessment
        instruments it uses. (training for 10 WAEC staff, purchase of equipment)
       School grants: An evaluation of the school grant pilot in Region 5 under the BESPOR program
        would be conducted under this project. Based on the outcome of that evaluation, in Year 2 the
        project would support school grants in the other regions with clearly identified quality results for
        which each school and community would be accountable. ($500 per year per school for all lower-
        basic schools in the other four regions).

                                                      4
     Tertiary education strategic studies: Continuing on support provided during preparation, the
      project would conduct further strategic studies including those related to the integration of higher
      education institutions, the creation of a competitive research fund, and feasibility studies for the
      construction of the core building (construction of which would not be part of this project).

Component 2:      Strengthened capacity building, performance management, and monitoring and
evaluation:

     Technical assistance for the functional analyses and for the creation of a more effective
      organization; purchase of office equipment and furniture for managers

     Technical assistance for the development of management training modules, for career
      development of teachers and of education personnel in general.

     Support for performance bonuses based on service-level agreements.

     Training and technical assistance for monitoring and evaluation; for the creation of assessment
      tools at both classroom and system levels.

Component 3: Expansion of effective access:

     Construction and equipping of 36 urban classrooms (two 9-classroom streams) in Region 2 and of
      16 multigrade classrooms (two 2-classroom blocks in each of 4 regions).
     Support to literacy courses through the involvement of local private-sector operators (6,000
      learners provided with literacy training and with post-literacy support).


The most important activities of the project that could potentially trigger the environmental and social
safeguards are the civil works which consisted of building and furnishing a total of 252 classrooms, 35
staff quarters and 20 water points (8 boreholes and 12 concrete lined wells).

The overall supervision of the implementation of the project was entrusted to the Projects Coordination
Unit which has, within its structure, a Construction Management Unit which oversees the implementation
of the civil works. To support the Unit a construction monitor is assigned to each region who reports to
the PCU as well as the Regional Directors.

Different implementation modalities were adopted for the execution of the civil works. The construction
of 35 staff quarters was contracted out and directly supervised by the PCU. Under a Delegated
Management Contract, Gambia Public Works Agency (GAMWORKS) was contracted to construct and
furnish 129 classrooms and to rehabilitate 129 others in regions 1 and 2. Under a framework agreement,
Future In Our Hands (FIOH), a local NGO, was contracted to construct 108 classrooms, rehabilitate 144
in both urban and rural areas and rehabilitate 15 staff quarters. Similarly, another local NGO, Child Fund,
was contracted to build and furnish 15classrooms. The lists of the schools that benefitted from the
construction programme are attached as Annex1



                                                    5
2.4     Environmental and Social Assessment of the Project

An initial environmental assessment of the Project to ensure it is environmentally and socially sound and
sustainable has placed the project in Category B which means that it does not potentially have major
adverse environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas – including
wetlands, forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats. The likely impacts would be site-specific; few if
any of them would be irreversible; and in most cases mitigation measures can be designed to address the
situation. The mitigation measures may include adherence to certain predetermined performance
standards, guidelines, or design criteria such as environmentally sound design criteria, siting criteria,
construction standards, fire and life safety requirements, and inspection procedures, which are in
conformity with national legislations and the World Bank guidelines.

In the absence of the identification of specific sites for the subprojects an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were prepared to evaluate
the potential environmental and social impacts of the proposed project and identify ways to improve it by
preventing, minimizing, mitigating, or compensating for adverse impacts that could arise during project
implementation.

        2.5 Objectives of the Audit

The objectives of the audit are:
   i.  Verify compliance with legal provisions, including compliance with national legislation
        and safeguards policies and procedures of the World Bank;
  ii.  Identify and manage knowingly cases of non-compliance of said safeguard instruments;
 iii.   Improve communication on the management of the project safeguard requirements;
 iv.   Assess the environmental and social performance of compensatory/mitigation measures
        recommended by different studies. That is, the Environmental and Social
        Management Framework (ESMF) and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), that have
        been prepared to guide the implementation of the projects on environmental on safeguards
        grounds.

The present audit, Part I deals specifically with the ESMF which examines the potential negative
environmental impacts. The RPF which examines the potential social impacts as a result of land
acquisition is in a separate audit report, Part II.

      3.0 METHODOLOGY

The methodology consists of the review of relevant background documents (both print and electronic) and
consultations with the various stakeholders and field visits.
Consultations
The consultations took the form of interviews, administering assessment forms/questionnaires for data
collection. Copies of the tools used as guides in discussions and in the assessments are attached as Annex
2. The list of the people contacted is in Annex 3.




                                                     6
Field Visits
The visits provided the opportunity to assess the various environmental and social impacts of the
subprojects; receive and assess reports of incidents or complaints of the project affected persons; and
review the effectiveness of the mechanisms put in place for handling complaints. The list of schools
visited and the dates is in Annex 4
National workshop
A national workshop shall be convened to discuss the draft Audit Report with the representatives of the
various stakeholders. The comments/observations made at the workshop will be incorporated in the final
report.

4.0 POLICY AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR THE ESMF

 The ESMF was prepared in 2006 prior to the commencement of the Project with the objective of
providing an environmental and social screening process for the future implementation of education
infrastructure investments and activities. Where the screening of the subprojects indicates major negative
environmental impacts the ESMF recommended a separate Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and
it provided guidelines for preparing it.
The ESMF was prepared taking into account the relevant national environmental policies and regulations
and the World Bank’s Safeguard guidelines as contained in OP.4.01 Environmental Assessment.(2)
A summary of the relevant policy and regulatory frameworks is provided below.

4.1 National Policy and Regulatory Frameworks and Guidelines
 First there is the Gambia Environmental Action Plan (GEAP) which provides the overall policy
framework for national environmental management. It seeks to promote and implement sound
environmental policy with special emphasis on environmental management, pollutions and nuisances, and
the need to safeguard the well-being of the populations. Within this broad policy framework national
legislations have been passed to support improved environmental management and they include:

4.1.1 National Environment Management Act 1994

 The objective of this law is to provide the legal basis for the correct use and a viable management of the
environment and its components, in order to establish a system of sustainable development in The
Gambia. The Act recommends that the Government establishes environmental quality standards in order
to ensure the sustainable use of the nation’s resources. The Act also addresses issues relating to
environmental pollution and environmental quality standards. Article 22 of the Act requires
environmental impact assessment (EIA) for projects and programmes that could potentially have negative
effects on the environment or public health.
 For purposes of carrying out an EIA the NEA has formulated guidelines and procedures- the
Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines 1999 and the Environmental Impact Assessment
Procedures 1999- which provide details for conducting an EIA.
_____________________________
2. The project screening is to decide on the nature and extent of the environmental assessment needed for the
project. It determines which activities are likely to have negative environmental and social impacts; determines
appropriate mitigation measures for activities with adverse impacts; incorporates mitigation measures into the


                                                       7
project as appropriate; reviews and approves the project’s proposals; monitors environmental parameters during the
implementation of activities.

According to these Guidelines and Procedures, projects reviewed for their potential environmental impact
can be classified as follows:
- Class A: where a full Environmental Impact Assessment is required – based on the information
    provided during the screening or after additional information has been provided, and which, in the
    opinion of NEA, has sufficient reason to believe that the project will cause a significant negative
    impact on the environment. Projects in this class will require an environmental impact assessment.

-   Class B: relates to cases where additional information is necessary because doubts remain as to the
    significance of potential impacts on the environment. Projects in this category will be required to
    provide additional information before NEA makes a decision on their classification. After additional
    information has been provided, the Agency will reassess the proposed project to determine if it falls
    into Class A or C.

-   Class C: in this class no full Environmental Impact Assessment required. A project may be
    categorised as Class C if it is determined that the proposed project will have no significant or adverse
    impact on the environment. The Executive Director may grant environmental approval to the project
    without further analysis.

4.1.2 The Public Health Act 1990
The Public Health Act was enacted to make provision for public and environmental health-connected
matters. This Act empowers the Secretary of State to formulate regulations regarding the collection,
removal and disposal of sanitary waste and other noxious waste. The Act also mandates the Director of
Health Services who also heads the Department of Public Health Services to abate nuisances and to
remove or correct any condition that may be injurious to public health. It empowers public health officers
to monitor environmental and public health regulations.

4.2 World Bank Safeguard Policies
The World Bank has ten safeguard policies which are designed to help ensure that projects proposed for
Bank financing are environmentally and socially sustainable. The most relevant in the case of the Third
Education Sector Project are OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement.
The Bank’s Safeguard policy OP4.01requires that all Bank-financed operations are screened for potential
environmental and social impacts, and that the required environmental work should be carried out on the
basis of the screening results. The screening process must meet the following performance standards:
 (I) integrated assessment to identify the social and environmental impacts, risks, and opportunities of
projects;
(ii) Effective community engagement through disclosure of project related information and consultation
with local communities on matters that directly affect them; and
 (iii) The project owners’ management of social and environmental performance throughout the life of the
project

The screening results can fall into any three of the following environmental categories:


                                                        8
       Category A (significant negative impacts) requiring a separate environmental impact assessment
        (EIA);
        Category B (impacts less significant than those of Category A) and which can be mitigated
        effectively by the application of simple mitigation measures by qualified staff; and
        Category C (no significant environmental impacts) and hence, no additional environmental work
        required.

4.3 Major Areas of Concern Identified by the ESMF
The ESMF has identified some of the potential adverse environmental impacts before, during and after
construction which are summarised in the table below:

Table 1: Adverse Environmental Impacts due to Infrastructure Construction / Rehabilitation
                    Specific
Phase                                Potential adverse impacts
                    Activities
                                     - degradation of storage sites of construction materials and
                                         equipment,
                                     - Loss of vegetation due to site preparation, opening and
                                         exploitation of quarries
                                     - loss of vegetation and degradation of soils,
                    Implantation of      surface water pollution,
                    contractor and   - deforestation for construction site access,
                     works phase     - air pollution due to vehicle rotation, noise,
Prior to and                         - soil pollution from motor oil and lubricants,
during                               - waste generated by construction work,
construction                         - pollution resulting in degradation of the living
                                         environment,
                                     - soil erosion,
                                     - loss of natural habitat zones and biodiversity,
                                     - Risks of bush fires by uncontrolled burning
                                     - River sedimentation
                                     - Obstruction of drainage patterns
                                     - Pollution and temporary disruption of river out-flow (by
                                         storage of construction materials)
                                     - Accidental discharge of oils, of greases,
                        Operation/   - Unserviceable sanitation facilities and absence of access to
                        Use of the       water and electricity.
                        facilities   - Un-rehabilitated quarries and borrow pits (habitats for the
After construction
                                         malaria vector and bilharzias snail),
                                     - Non-restoration of the landscape and regeneration of the
                                         vegetation cover.

To address these and other potential negative impacts the ESMF proposed the following:

   i)   Screening of all subprojects to determine the likely environmental and social impacts of the
        specific sites and assigning the appropriate environmental categories. The screening was to be
        done by Environmental Focal Points (EFP) to be established in each region. Membership of EFPs
        was to consist of but not limited to representatives of the Commissioners, the Area Councils, the
        regional Directors of Education, the Project Construction Unit and Project monitors,

                                                   9
        GAMWORKS and members of the communities;
    ii) The screening results and the environmental categorization are to be forwarded to the National
        Environment Agency (NEA) for consideration and approval. The NEA was given the overall
        responsibility to supervise the environmental measures;

    iii) Once the categorisation has been approved and the necessary mitigation measures identified a
         monitoring system within the framework of a management plan is to be developed;
    iv) In cases where the impacts are considered major (Category A) an EIA is to be prepared and an
         Environmental Management Plan prepared;
    v) Monitoring will be carried at regional level by the EFPs and at the national level by the NEA;
    vi) Because of the limited expertise especially at regional level, the EMSF strongly recommended a
         training programme to build the capacity of the EFPs to carry out the screening and categorisation
         of subprojects in their respective regions. Such training should extend to personnel of the PCU,
         GAMWORKS and local government authorities.

5.0 FINDINGS

The findings of the study are based on interviews, discussions and site visits with the various
stakeholders. They are divided into two parts. The first part deals with compliance with the provisions of
the ESMF and the second part deals with the environmental concerns arising out of the field visits.

        5.1 Compliance With the ESMF

        5.1.1 Lack of compliance with basic Requirements of the ESMF

The discussions with the staff of the MoBSE, GAMWORKS and the NEA, all major key players in this
process, showed that the recommendations of the ESMF were not followed. The necessary screening of
subprojects and the environment management procedures were not adhered to nor was the recommended
management plan established for the implementation of the mitigation measures. As a result of these
omissions, neither the likely negative environmental impacts nor the mitigation measures were identified
and in consequence no management or monitoring system was developed.

 In fact, the NEA which has a key role in supporting the establishment of the management structures, the
monitoring as well as the capacity building programmes was not in any way involved during project
implementation. It was only on 29th November 2012 (two years after the start of the Project) that
consultative meetings were held between the MoBSE and NEA (3) to address this situation. This came as a
follow up to the observations made during one of the World Bank’s supervision missions which included
an environmentalist. It could also be said that the absence of an environmentalist in earlier supervision
missions had provided a missed opportunity to address these issues earlier on during project
implementation.
In the draft proposal under discussion between MoBSE and NEA it is proposed that MOBSE be in charge
of screening, conducting subprojects-specific Environmental Social Impact Assessment/ Environmental
_______________________
3.The Gambia education sector mission: Supervision of Existing (FTI, IDA, JSDF) Preparation of New Program
        (IDA, GPE)-Joint Sector Review-Aide Memoire- December 2012


                                                     10
Management Plans/Resettlement Action Plans and NEA will be in charge of confirming the results of the
screening process, reviewing and clearing subproject-specific safeguard instruments and conducting
compliance monitoring, with national laws and regulations, as well as World Bank safeguards policies
and procedures. Once approved by the parties the new collaboration framework is expected to improve
the project’s environmental performance and compliance assessment, thereby redressing safeguards
treatment approach and procedures during project implementation.

Below is a summary table of the actions to be taken during the implementation of the project to indicate
the degree of compliance with national laws and the Bank safeguard policies as embodied in the ESMF.

Table2: Assessment of ESMF Recommended Actions to be taken During Project Implementation

Action Points                                             Institution/organ                Action
                                                          Responsible                      Taken/Otherwis
                                                                                           e

1.Establishment of Regional Environmental Focal
Points                                                    PCU                              No Action Taken
2. Screening of Sub-project components to                                                  No Action Taken
determine the environmental and social Impact of          Regional Environmental
the infrastructure construction                           Focal Point
                                                                                           No Action Taken
3.Assigning the appropriate Environmental
                                                          Regional Environmental Focal
Categories (A, B, or C)
                                                          Points
4. Carrying out Environmental Work, i.e.                  REFP                             No Action Taken
implementing simple mitigation measures (Annex
2), or, commissioning a separate EIA
5. Review and Approval                                    NEA                              No Action Taken
6. Development of Environmental Mgt Plan                  REFP & PCU                       No Action Taken
                                                          Environmental Focal Points,      No Action Taken
7. Monitoring
                                                          the PCU and NEA.
                                                          The EFP in each region will      No Action Taken
                                                          ensure that the environmental
                                                          and social monitoring
8. Environmental and Social Indicators                    indicators listed in the ESMF
                                                          are included and adhered to in
                                                          all education project
                                                          construction/rehabilitation
                                                          activities.
9. Training on screening, EA and EIA to build             PCU                              No Action Taken
capacity at the level of the regional directorates, the
PCU and GAMWORKS.




                                                      11
               5.2 Environmental and Health Concerns Arising out of the Field Visits.

The discussions /interviews with key stakeholders at policy level were followed by field visits. Over
thirty schools were visited where classrooms, staff quarters or a water supply system were constructed or
in very few cases were under construction. The list of the schools visited is attached as Annex4. During
these visits the consultant had discussion/interviews and at times group discussions with the various
stakeholders including head teachers, Regional Education Directorate staff, Alkalos and community
elders.
It is important to restate that because there was no screening before the start of subproject implementation
there was no basic data available for the specific sites nor were the potential environmental issues
assessed. Secondly, at the time of the visit most of the construction was completed so most of the impact
assessment related to the post construction phase.

During the field visit the following points were also considered:
    the conformity of the education subprojects with World Bank Safeguards and national
        legislations;
    Environmental and social aspects in the preparation of technical documents;
    Environmental and social impacts of the works;
    Capacity for monitoring the environmental and social aspects at the regional levels.

    5.2.1 Conformity with the WB Safeguards Policies and Procedures and the National
           Legislations

Although the subprojects were not subjected to screening as required by the ESMF the small size of the
infrastructure works on the sites visited did not have any major negative impact on the environment.
Nonetheless the relatively simple nature of the works calls for an Environmental and Social Management
Plan (ESMP) with environmental and social clauses included in the tender documents.
 In fact, the ESMF recognises that some of the infrastructure development such as water and sanitation
facilities, fencing and roofing may not create any major negative environmental impacts. Environmental
assessment observations on such subprojects could simply be the subject of a contractors’ manual and
embodied in their contracts and strictly monitored. Such projects could well be classified C and allowed
to proceed immediately.

        5.2.2 Environmental and Social aspects in the preparation and implementation of
              Projects

Although the tender documents and the implementation plans did not include environmental and social
clauses the actual design of the schools took account of certain social concerns such as gender with many
of the schools provided with separate toilets for boys and girls. All classroom buildings have handicap
access facility. These measures were made possible because in the Fast-Track projects these
environmental prescriptions are already included in the contract documents.

        5.2.3 Assessment of the negative environmental and social impacts
                                                    12
Although no major negative environmental impacts were linked to the construction of the schools and
staff quarters visited however, there are some concerns which need to be addressed and these include:

- Lack of water connection for the toilets
Some of the newly constructed toilets especially in the Greater Banjul Area such as Serrekunda Lower
Basic are not being used because the water pressure from the National Water Supply Company
(NAWEC) is too low to allow the use of the newly constructed toilets. This is a major problem for
Serrekunda Lower Basic which has a school enrolment figure of 4,127. In Madina Kunkunding Lower
Basic in Gunjur flush toilet facilities were constructed where there is no pipe-borne water and no
indication as to when it will be available. Currently both the children and staff are using the traditional,
unhygienic pit latrines.

-Poor Drainage and the Risks of Flooding
Some of the schools are also located in flood prone areas with high water table as in Tallinding Annex
where, during the rainy season, access to and use of the foreground is difficult due to flooding. In
addition there are the health implications of these flood waters which become breeding grounds for
mosquitoes and other vectors.
The new Brusubi Upper Basic is located in a slight depression which will receive a lot of waste water
from the surrounding higher ground. The natural drainage for these waters has now been obstructed by a
road constructed to the south. Unless a proper drainage is constructed the school is likely to experience
flooding during the rainy season.

-Risks of Erosion
Erosion could be a serious problem in cases where measures are put in place the problem early. In one of
the schools visited, which is not part of this project, Kerr Cherno Upper Basic erosion due to poor siting is
now threatening the very foundation of the buildings. Nioro Jataba Upper Basic could face a similar
problem even though the original site of the school had to be changed because of fears of erosion which is
a major environmental hazard in the village. Although the current site is an improvement it will need to
be closely monitored to ensure that protective measures are taken in time before damage occurs.

Staff Quarters
With respect to the staff quarters the following observations could be made:
    -Generally the rooms were considered small particularly for teachers with a family

    -The position of the bed just by the window does not provide much security for the occupants
    particularly in areas close to conflict zones such as in Wassadou near the Casamance border. The
    louver glasses can easily be broken exposing the bed and its occupant.

    -The use of louvers in remote areas presents a special challenge when it comes to repairs. Not only
    the chances of breakage are high as it has already started happening but repairs could take a long time
    to be effected because of the absence of materials and skilled workers in these villages. More robust
    windows made of metal with the lower half completely sealed and the upper part made of metal
    louvers that can be opened or closed to allow in air and light should be considered. Another point on

                                                    13
   this issue is the quality of wire gauze used. Less than six months after occupation of the houses the
   wire gauze has been torn in many houses.
    In some of the newly constructed staff houses the backyard (space between the veranda and fence)
   has not been paved and there is no outlet for the water that is likely to accumulate when it rains.
   Failure to address this situation will certainly result in flooding each time it rains with potential for
   the area becoming breeding ground for mosquitoes.

 Toilets
  - With the toilets the most serious defect is the aesthetic impacts in terms of the smell and bad odour
  that filter into the backyard and the living rooms. These odours and smell are said to be particularly
  strong in the evenings and at night. The toilets in question do not have ventilation pipes and because
  of the exposure to light flies can access it easily making it even more unhygienic.

 Kitchens
   -Attached to the staff quarters is a kitchen. The kitchens do not have chimneys for the evacuation of
   smoke even though most of the people asked about the likely fuel to be used for cooking meals said
   firewood. Cooking in these kitchens would be very inconvenient if not impossible if one is to use
   firewood.

 Water Supply facilities
  -With respect to wells with hand pumps the main concern was that the two halves of the concrete slab
  covering the well have still not been properly sealed with the result that some of the water pumped
  out of the well seeps back into the wells through the space between the two halves of the concrete
  slab. This situation defeats the whole purpose of safe water source. It was reported by the
  headmasters of the schools affected by this problem that the contractor(s) had sent workers to repair
  the faults but this has not been successful.

   - With the newly installed solar powered water supply systems waste water collects around the tap
   rather than draining into the school garden where it was planned to go to. The standing pool of water
   around the taps poses health hazards due to the potential as a breeding ground for mosquitoes and
   other disease vectors.

Safety Concerns of Workers at Subproject sites
   -During visits to sites where some construction was taking place many of the workers were seen not
   wearing protective dresses (helmet, safety/security shoes) contrary to health and safety standards at
   construction sites. The work sites are not always fenced off to prevent access by children.

Environmental and Social Monitoring of the Works
  -Although the PCU has deployed construction monitors in each of the regions their terms of reference
  does not specifically include environmental monitoring even though with some training they could
  very well carry out this function. At present however, they concentrate more on the technical aspects
  of the works at the expense of environmental and social concerns. The project has not also made use
  of the focal points of the NEA present in the regions for advice/support.



                                                   14
Other Environmental Concerns
  -During the field visits the consultant noted the continued presence of asbestos as roofing materials for
  schools even though this product is known to have serious negative impacts on human health. In one
  of the schools visited, Serrekunda Lower Basic, the roof is old and broken in some parts and will leak
  in the coming rainy season.

6.0 RECOMMENDED MITIGATION MEASURES

On the basis of the above findings the following mitigation measures are recommended some of which
require immediate action. The recommended mitigation measures together with costs, responsibilities and
timeline is indicated in the CAP in Table3

        6.1 Water Connection to Toilets
Serrekunda Lower Basic and other schools in similar situation should be connected to NAWEC to ensure
that the toilets can be used. In the case of Serrekunda it was reported that discussions are in progress
between the Ministry and NAWEC on the possibility of constructing overhead tanks using bigger
polyethylene pipes to convey water to the school which will ensure adequate pressure for the water to
reach the toilets. These discussions need to be speeded up so that the problem can solved by September.
 For Madina Kunkunding in Gunjur where flush toilets were built when there is no running water,
improved pit latrine (ventilated pit latrines) need to be urgently constructed for the immediate use of the
children instead of what is currently being used.

        6.2 Water Supply facilities

 For the hand pumps there is an urgent need for the contractors to properly seal the space between the two
halves of the concrete slabs since the final payment has not been done.
Proper drainage should be prepared for the waste water around taps to avoid pools around water points.

        6.3 Use of Asbestos in Schools
-the Ministry should in place a policy of changing all asbestos roofs in the schools. As that of Serrekunda
Lower Basic is in a deplorable condition this needs to be urgently replaced before September when school
reopens.

         6.4 Staff Quarters
 -Pavement of the backyard with adequate slope and an outlet for the waste water.
         6.5 Flooding
The case of Tallingding Annex is complex and will require an engineering solution as in the case of Barra
–Essau Upper Basic where the ground was filled and compacted before being paved. It is recommended,
in the first place, to have the school premise surveyed and a design prepared to ensure that water in the
school grounds has a proper drainage outlet. Fencing of the school also needs to be completed to ensure
that flood waters do not enter the school grounds from outside.
As Brusubi Upper Basic is also likely to experience flooding similar intervention is required on the
drainage system so that the water from the school can be drained without causing flooding problems for
the neighbours to the south.


                                                   15
        6.6 Kitchens
-For immediate action the kitchens need to be equipped with chimneys. For environmental considerations
they also need to be equipped with energy saving cooking facilities such as the “sinkirikuto? (4). The
greatest number of users of these kitchens will be women and they also deserve some improvements in
their work place

         6.7 Capacity Building
It is evident that the PCU and the Regional Directorates will be required to work more closely with NEA
and its regional Focal Points in the environmental and social assessment process. It will be necessary to
develop the understanding of these agencies and other Departments at central and decentralized levels to
have a reasonable grasp of key environmental and social issues in order to effectively deliver on their
responsibilities. Thus training workshops will have to be organized to provide the stakeholders with the
capacity to undertake screening and categorisation of subprojects at the decentralised levels subject to
review and approval of the NEA and also undertake monitoring programmes. An outline of the training
workshops is provided in Annex 5. The NEA will coordinate these training programmes as they have
already conducted similar training in the past at national level.
In addition to the national workshops it is recommended to have one official who will be identified as the
environmental and social focal points within the PCU to undergo further intensive environmental and
social safeguards training to gain rapid knowledge of EA and monitoring approaches and procedures.
SETYM which is one institute providing such training as already referred to elsewhere, will be
conducting in October 2013 from7th- 18th October a course on “Social and Environmental Monitoring of
Projects and Programmes? in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.

         6.8 Future Designs
Future designs should review the position of the beds, the use of metal windows with louvers in certain
geographical areas and replacement of present types of wire gauze with stronger and more durable
varieties .

7.0 PROGRAMME FOR MONITORING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MITIGATION
MEASURES

To ensure compliance with the above recommended actions it is proposed to have a monitoring
programme as follows:

____________________________

4. It is a simple biomass stove built around an insulated, elbow-shaped combustion chamber which provides more
intense heat and cleaner combustion than an open fire, meaning that it consumes less fuel than a three-rock stove,
removing smoke from the house




                                                       16
(a) Objectives
        (i) Ensure implementation of the approved mitigation measures;

        (ii) Check for any unforeseen adverse environmental impact and undertake corrective measures


(b) Process

   i.   At the regional level construction monitors shall monitor and report on the status of
        implementation of the recommended actions. These monitoring reports should also be sent the
        NEA.
        Where there are deficiencies in meeting contractual obligations the PCU and GAMWORKS
        should ensure compliance.
  ii.    With respect to water supply the Department of Water Resources which is responsible for
        monitoring the national water quality standards should monitor the water quality in the schools
        having problems with their well covers;
 iii.    NEA shall undertake countrywide assessment mission at least, one month before the project
        ends, to project sites to determine whether the recommended mitigation measures have been
        carried out and to determine whether further mitigation measures are required which should be
        implemented before the project comes to an end.

(c) Outputs

(i) Implementation of CAP as per approval
(ii) Periodic Monitoring reports




                                                 17
Table3: An Assessment of the Costs of Implementation of Remedial Measures with a Timetable

Sr.                                         Estimated      Responsibility
No.   Activity                              Cost                              Timeline
1.    Pavement of the backyard              -              contractors        immediate
2.    Replacement of ware gauge             -
3.    Improvement of kitchen with           To be          PCU to contract    Over period of 12
      improved cooking facilities and       determined     it out and         months
      chimneys.                                            supervise

4.    Seal the space between the two -                     Contractor         Immediate
      halves of the concrete slabs
5.    Construction of drainage for waste -                 Contractor         Immediate
      water
6.    Safeguards Training Workshops      D250,000          PCU & NEA          July/August

7.    Monitoring: Regional level                -          Construction       Start immediate
                                                           Monitors
      Familiarisation tour nationwide       D100,000       NEA                July
      Supervision tour nationwide           D100,000       NEA                November
8     Finalisation and signature of MoU     -              MoBSE &NEA         Immediate
      between the MoBSE and NEA
9     Feasibility design of drainage at     75,000         PCU                Immediate
      Tallinding Annex & Brusubi Upper
      Basic
10    Water Connection NAWEC                To be          PCU                Immediate
                                            determined
11    Replacement of Asbestos Roofs         To be          PCU                Immediate
                                            determined




8.0 RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE INTERVENTIONS

The mitigation measures outlined above will go a long way in addressing the negative impacts observed
during the field visit. However, for future programmes the negative points raised could be avoided or
strongly mitigated by implementing the following recommendations:

1) Compliance with the ESMF guidelines to ensure that all subprojects are screened and environmental
and social management plans are prepared for the new sites;
2) Include environmental and social clauses in the tender documents and ensure NEA takes part in the
tender process;
3) Mainstream environmental and social safeguards guidelines in project implementation.
The effective implementation of these measures will require:



                                                    18
a) The Designation of an environmental and Social Specialist within the PCU - who would
coordinate the safeguards function of the project to ensure that environmental and social
considerations are mainstreamed in project implementation? His responsibilities would entail,
ensuring that: (i) subprojects are systematically screened to determine whether further environmental

and/or social assessment is needed, or whether simple measures would suffice; (ii) bidding documents
contain environmental and social clauses and that contractors fully implement those clauses; and (iii)
compliance monitoring with Bank safeguard policies and national environmental laws and regulations
is periodically carried out.

  b)Ensuring that project environmental and social compliance monitoring is devolved to
 NEA which should be formalized through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that clearly
 defines the role, modalities and frequency of intervention of the NEA in project monitoring.



                   ___________________________________________________




                                               19
Annex 1a
                           List of Project Sites for the Classrooms


     (a) Item                     School                      Region     No. of
                                                                       Classrooms
1               St. Theresa’s Lower Basic School (36)            1          18
2               Serrekunda Lower Basic School (45)               1          27
3               Tallinding Proper Lower Basic School (18)        1           9
4               Latrikunda Sabiji Upper Basic School             1           9
5               Charles Jaw Upper Basic School                   1           6
6               Abuko Lower Basic School                         1           9
7               St. Theresa,s Lower Basic School                 1          18
8               Serrekunda Lower Basic School                    1          18
9               Tallinding Upper Basic School                    1           9
10              Wellingara Lower Basic School                    2           9
11              Sinchu Baliya Lower Basic School                 2           9
12              Sinchu Baliya Upper Basic School                 2           9
13              Old Yundum Lower Basic School                    2           9
14              Brusubi Lower Basic School                       2           9
15              Gunjur Lower Basic School                        2           6
16              St. Peter’s Upper Basic School                   2           6
17              Brusubi Lower Basic School                       2           9
18              Kanfenda Lower Basic School                      2           3
19              Jamagen Lower Basic School                       3           3
20              Barra Essau Upper Basic School                   3           6
21              Conteh Kunda Neegi Lower Basic School            3           3
22              St. George’s Tambana Lower Basic School          3           3
23              MakaFaraFenni Lower Basic School                 3           3
24              NioroJattaba Lower Basic School                  4           6
25              Misera Lower Basic School                        4           6
26              Firdawsi Upper Basic School                      5           6
27              Changai Lower Basic School                       5           3
28              Bayaaba Lower Basic School                       5           3
29              Palleleh Lower Basic School                      5           3
30              Lebaa Lower Basic School                         5           3
31              Jamagen Lower Basic School                       5           3
32              Sare Abdou Lower Basic School                    5           3
33              Tankon Kunda Lower Basic School                  5           3
34              Sareh Musa Lower Basic School                    6           3
                                                                           252




                                             20
Annex: 1b
                     List of Project sites for the Staff housing



        Item                 School                     Region     No. of Teachers
                                                                       Housed

        1      JakoiSibirik*                               2             4
        2      Bullenghat                                  2
        3      Janack                                      2
        4      Wassadung                                   2
        5      Bambali *                                   3             4
        6      Bali Mandinka                               3
        7      Yallal                                      3
        8      Jinak                                       3
        9      Jurunku                                     3
        10     Kunjata                                     3
        11     Sukuta*                                     4             4
        12     MadinaSasita                                4
        13     Jail                                        4
        14     Sare Samba                                  4
        15     Sibito                                      4
        16     Fori *                                      5             4
        17     Misera*                                     5             4
        18     Jawla-Ba                                    5
        19     Jessadi                                     5
        20     Kerewan Dumbo Kono                          5
        21     Sare Louba                                  5
        22     Genji Wollof                                5
        23     Jailan                                      5
        24     Keyai                                       5
        25     Kerr Sat Saloum                             5
        26     Njallal                                     5             7
        27     Sare Jawbeh                                 6             4
        28     Sare Wollom                                 6             4
        29     Tambasansang                                6             7
        30     Makamasireh*                                6             4
        31     Chamoi Bunda                                6             7
        34     Gunjur Kuta                                 6             4
        35     Kanapeh                                     6             7
        36     Niankui                                     6             4
        37     Passamas                                    6             7
        38     Perai Mamadi                                6             4
        39     Sare Gubu                                   6             4




                                        21
Annex: 1c
                    List of Project Sites for Boreholes and Concrete Lined Wells.

         (a) Item                 School             Region       Type of Water P
                                                                   Provided point
    1                   Wassadung                       2        Concrete lined well
    2                   Sibanor                         2        Concrete lined well
    3                   Janack                          2        Concrete lined well
    4                   NgerrAngalaise                  3        Drilling of borehole
    5                   Doobo                           3        Drilling of borehole
    6                   Banni                           3        Concrete lined well
    7                   Katchang                        3        Concrete lined well
    8                   Kunjayata                       3        Concrete lined well
    9                   Kerr Jarga                      3        Concrete lined well
    10                  MadinaAngalaise                 4        Drilling of borehole
    11                  MadinaSasita                    4        Drilling of borehole
    12                  Barrow Kunda                    4        Drilling of borehole
    13                  Velengara Baa                   4        Concrete lined well
    14                  Pallelleh                       5        Drilling of borehole
    15                  Jamagen                         5        Concrete lined well
    16                  Cass Wollof                     5        Drilling of borehole
    17                  Baayaba                         5        Concrete lined well
    18                  Sare Abdou                      5        Drilling of borehole
    19                  Jahawor                         5        Concrete lined well
    20                  Tankong Kunda                   5        Concrete lined well




                                                22
Annex 2a

ASSESSMENT FORM FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT AUDIT
ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Institution--------------------------------------

Name-------------------------------

Position------------------------------
Action Points                                            Institution/organ             Action
                                                         Responsible                   Taken/Otherwi
                                                                                       se

1.Establishment of Regional Environmental Focal
Points                                                   PCU
2. Screening of Sub-project components to determine
the environmental and social Impact of the               Regional Environmental
infrastructure construction                              Focal Point

3. Assigning the appropriate Environmental Categories    Regional Environmental
(A, B, or C)                                             Focal Points
4. Carrying out Environmental Work, i.e. implementing    REFP
simple mitigation measures (Annex 2), or,
commissioning a separate EIA

5. Review and Approval                                   NEA

6. Development of Environmental Mgt Plan
                                                         REFP & PCU
                                                         Environmental Focal
7. Monitoring                                            Points, the PCU and
                                                         NEA.
                                                         The EFP in each region
                                                         will ensure that the
                                                         environmental and social
                                                         monitoring indicators
8. Environmental and Social Indicators                   listed in the ESMF are
                                                         included and adhered to in
                                                         all education project
                                                         construction/rehabilitation
                                                         activities.
9. Training on screening, EA and EIA to build capacity   PCU
at the level of the regional directorates, the PCU and
GAMWORKS.




                                                  23
Annex 2b

Contractors


QUESTIONNAIRE FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT AUDIT OF
              THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Name-----------------------------------------

Agency----------------------------------



             1. Are you aware of the EMSF and the RPF with respect to the construction activities?

             2. Does your contract include any clauses relating to environmental and social aspects?

             3. Were there any negative environmental and social impacts that you were required to
                address during construction?


             4. How do you dispose of waste from the construction site?


             5. How do you secure construction side to prevent children from accessing the construction
                site?



             6. How were the noise and disturbances managed at the construction site to prevent
                distraction of children?



             7. Have you conducted your own audits to ensure conformity with the requirements of the
                ESMP?




                                                   24
Annex 2c         DISCUSSION POINTS WITH SCHOOL TEAHERS ON INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECTS

                            INFRASTRUCTURE: WELLS & BOREHOLES

Name of School--------------------------------
Location--------------------------------------------------
Name of Headmaster--------------------------------------
Total School Enrolment----------------------------- Girls-------------- Boys-------------
Status of Works---------------------------------------------------------
Observations:
     Location of the water supply facility- Proximity to the toilets



       Operational status of the water supply facility



       State of surrounding of the water facility ( waste water management & fencing)




       Any Other Issues




General Remarks and Conclusion:




                                                      25
Annex 2d


                 TYPE OF INFRASTRUCTURE: CLASSROOMS /STAFF QUARTERS

Name of School--------------------------------
Location--------------------------------------------------
Name of Headmaster--------------------------------------
Total School Enrolment------------------------------- Girls-------------------- Boys--------------
Status of Works---------------------------------------------------------
Number of classrooms--------------------------------------------------
Observations:

                 Visual impact following the disposal of construction materials from work sites ( after
                  construction)


                 Utility (water and electricity ) connections


                 Status of general surrounding including fencing


                 Control and cleanliness of the construction site( for projects under construction)


                 Health and Security Issues


                 Any Other Issues



        General Remarks & Conclusion




                                                        26
Annex 2e

                            INFRASTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION: TOILET

Name of School--------------------------------
Status of Works--------------------------------------------
Observations:
      State of cleanliness of the facility



        Proximity of the toilet to water supply facility



        Do the boys and girls have separate toilets? If yes how far are they from each other?



        Adequacy of the facility



        Any Other Issues




General Remarks & Conclusion




                                                         27
Annex 3
                                  List of persons contacted
   1) Mr. Baboucar Bouy, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Basic Education
   2) Mr. Sherif Yunus Hydara, Project Manager, Project Coordination Unit
   3) Mr. Ebou S. Gaye, Project Construction Manager, PCU
   4) Mr. Addison Gomez, Quantity Surveyor, PCU
   5) Ms. Ndey Sireh Bakurin, Acting Executive Director NEA
   6) Mr. Momodou Suwareh- Director Networks Coordinator
   7) Mr. Malick Bah, Environmental Impact Assessment Officer, NEA
   8) Mr. Ebrima Cham, General Manager, GAMWORKS
   9) Mr. Sulayman Jarju, Construction Monitor , Region 6, MoBSE
   10) Mr. Mamour A. Ceesay, Construction Monitor , Region 5, MoBSE
   11) Mr. Augustine Assan Jatta, Construction Monitor , Region 3, MoBSE
   12) Mr . Landing Sagnia, Director, Future In Our Hands
   13) Mr. Daniel Mendy, Foreman, Future In Our Hands
   14) Mr. Dembo Bah, Project Officer, Future In Our Hands
   15) Mr. Mustapha Kebbeh, Acting Country Director, Child Fund
   16) Mr. Demba Jawo- Principal Education Officer, Region 4, MoBSE
   17) Mr. Musa Bah-Senior Education Officer, Region 4, MoBSE
   18) Mrs. Lali Baldeh- Education Officer, Region 4, MoBSE
   19) Mr. M. G. Jallow-Principal Education Officer, Region 6, MoBSE
   20) Mr. Mr. Alfa Camara- Principal Education Officer, Region 5, MoBSE
   21) Mr. Bashirou Sagnyang, Construction Site Manager for Sarr Construction at Tintinto
   22) Mr . Samba Sowe, Alkali of Tintinto Village
   23) Mr. Omar Bah, Elder in Tintinto Village
   24) Mr. Babucar Suwareh- Director, Region 2, MoBSE
   25) Mr. Musa Jassy- Contruction Monitor, Region 1, MoBSE
   26) Mrs. Anna Burang John Ceesay – Director, Region 1, MoBSE




                                                 28
Annex 4

                                 List of Schools Visited During the Field Trip

DATE         NAME OF SCHOOL                 PROJECT             PERSONS INTERVIEWED           KEY        OBSERVATIONS          BY
                                                                                              INTERVIEWEES


28/05/13     Brusubi Lower Basic            Classrooms (9)      Sona S.M. Jobarteh( Ag.       -Toilet door off the hinge -
                                                                H/Teacher)                    Toilets too close . Need more
                                                                                              Toilets


28/o5/13     Brusubi Upper Basic            New School          - Mr. Daniel Mendy –          Risks of flooding during rains
                                            under               Works Supervisor-FIOH
                                            construction


28/o5/13     St. Theresa’s Lower Basic      Classrooms (36)     Mr.      Francis       Njie   - Refurbish old toilets      Need
                                                                (H/Teacher)                   for water tank to improve
                                                                                              supplies


28/05/13     Tallinding Annex Lower Basic   Classrooms          Mrs. Fatou . A. Sagnia        Flooding ; Security to prevent
                                                                (H/Teacher)                   theft


Thurs29/05   Tallinding Annex Upper Basic   Classrooms          Ms. Fatou K. Sise             Flooding; Limited Toilet
                                                                                              facilities; Risks of motor
                                                                                              accidents involving children;
                                                                                              Squatters during rainy season


29/5/13      Serrekunda Lower Basic         Classrooms (45)     Mr. Bolong Touray             Lack of water for toilets;
                                                                                              Asbestos roofing; Thefts;

30/05/13     Tintinto Basic Cycle           18 classrooms       Mr.Basirou Sanyang- Site
                                            under               Manager for Sarr
                                            construction        Construction


30/05/13     Old yundum Lower Basic         Class rooms (9)     Ousman J. M. Jallow &         Impotant to have proper
                                                                Momodou Lamin Joof            demarcation of school to avoid
                                                                                              encroachment


30/05/13     Wellingara Lower Basic         Classrooms (9)      Mrs. Boido J. Baldeh          Toilets not functioning


30/05/13     Abuko Lower Basic              Classrooms (9)      Ms. Angela Touray

31/05/13     July 22 Upper Basic and        Class rooms &       Mr. Alpha Khan                Failure of contractor to fence


                                                           29
          Senior Secodary School      labs.                                          oof area during construction;
                                                                                     water and waste connections
                                                                                     have problems; Basket ball
                                                                                     court damaged by contractor
                                                                                     not repaired


5/06/13   Sibanor Lower Basic         Well fitted with   Ms. Jeinaba Njie –
                                      hand pump          Teacher

5/06/13   Kanfenda Ahmadiyya          Class rooms (3)    Mr. Bakary Kujabi           Need for more classrooms
          Muslim Lower Basic


5/06/13   Bullenghat Lower Basic      Staff Quarters     Mr.Sheikh Sanyang           Rooms are small; position of
                                                                                     bed not good


5/06/13   Wassadou Lower Basic                           Mr. Ousman Janko            Finishing unsatisfactory; Rooms
                                                                                     small for a family; windows not
                                                                                     secured enough; position of
                                                                                     bed not good


5/06/13   Nioro Jattaba Upper Basic   Classrooms(6)      Mr. Cherno Sillah- Site     Erosion could be a problem in
                                      almost             Manager for Contractor      future
                                      complete


5/06/13   Sare Samba                  Staff Quarters     Mr. Tijan F. Bojang- Snr.   Rooms small with poor
                                                         Teacher                     ventilation; Toilets give bad
                                                                                     smell and attract mosquitoes &
                                                                                     flies


5/06/13   Misira Lower Basic Cycle    Classrooms(6)      Mr. Ousman B. Jatta-Vice
                                                         Principal


5/06/13   Wellingara Ba Lower Basic   Well with hand     Mr. Momodou S. Faye         Well not properly sealed-
          Cycle                       pump               (H/Teacher)                 resulting in water getting back
                                                                                     into the well. Earlier repairs
                                                                                     unsuccessful


5/06/13   Sukuta lower Basic          Staff Quarters     Mr. Seku Touray Dep.        Rooms are small (2.8m x 2.8m);
                                                         H/Master                    No electricity because inverter
                                                                                     is not working; Major
                                                                                     infestation of bats passing
                                                                                     through space bet. Roof and


                                                   30
                                                                                  ceiling




5/06/13   Jawiaba Kunda Lower Basic   Staff Quarters    Mrs. Jeinaba Fatty        Kitchen have no chimney;poor
                                                                                  drainage of backyard; the
                                                                                  windows do not close properly.


6/06/13   Sare Musa Lower Basc        Classrooms(3)     Mr. Lamin B Ceesay        Fencing
                                                        Mr.Muhammadou Sowe,
                                                        SMC; Mrs. Adama Sowe
                                                        Mothers Club


6/06/13   Sare Gubu Lower Basic       Staff Quarters    Mrs. Ida Kebbeh           Some of the lights not
                                                                                  functioning


6/06/13   Sare Jawbeh                 Staff Quarters    Mr. Amadou Jallow         Windows should be made of
                                                                                  metal for security esp. duing
                                                                                  the long holidays; Security at
                                                                                  the school need to be beefed
                                                                                  up to protect solar panels
                                                                                  during the long holidays


6/06/13   Kerwan Dumbokono            Staff Quarters    Mr. Ebrima Jallow         Mr. Modou Touray Dep.
                                                                                  H/Master


6/06/13   Tankong Kunda Lowr Basic    Well with Hand    Mr. Kawsu Conateh         Pump slab has a big crak in the
                                      pump                                        middle; not enough toilets with
                                                                                  teachers and pupils sharing the
                                                                                  same facilities

7/06/13   Firdawsy Upper Basic        Classrooms        Mr. Muhammed Secka        No solar lightening although is
                                                                                  wired; No source water; Pillars
                                                                                  and railings have started
                                                                                  cracking

7/06/13   Kass Wollof Lower Basic     Borehole with     Mr. Yankuba Jallow-Snr.   System working satisfactorily
                                      overhead tank     Master


7/06/13   Lebba Lower Basic           Classrooms (6)    Mr. Samba Ceesay, Dep.
                                                        H/Teacher




                                                   31
7/06/13    Kunjata Lower Basic         Staff Quarters    Kebba Sabally-            -Rooms not furnished;
                                                         H/Teacher;Ebrima Darbo    Evacuation of water from
                                                         Snr. Teacher              backyard difficult; Rooms too
                                                                                   small for 2 people to share;

                                                                                   Broken door still not repaired


7/06/13    Yallal Tankong Jala         Staff quarters    Mr. Amadou Jallow –       -    Odour from toilets; Solar
                                                         H/Teacher                      connection not
                                                                                        functioning; no drainage
                                                                                        for the backyard

7/06/13    Conteh Kunda Niji           Classrooms (6)    Mr. Salifu Jallow              satisfactory
                                                         H/Teacher


7/06/13    Doobo Lower Basic           Borehole                                         Completed and operating

7/06/13    Banni Lowe Basic            Well with Hand    Mr. Sorie Jabbi-Teacher   -Slab has a crack with some
                                       pump                                        water going back into the well
                                                                                   and waste water collecting
                                                                                   around the school kitchen


11/06/13   Latrikunda Upper Basic      Classrooms(9)     Mr. Jerreh Dampha         Need more toilets


12/06/13   Madina Kunkunding Lower     Classrooms (6)    Mrs. Mariama Jammeh       Flush toilet not functioning-lack
           Basic -Gunjur                                                           of water; Currently using
                                                                                   traditional Pit Latrines; Dispute
                                                                                   over school land


12/06/13   Sinchu Baliya Lower Basic   Classrooms (9)    Mr. Karamo Ceesay-        -    Electricity is not
                                                         H/Teacher                      functioning in some
                                                                                        buildings because of poor
                                                                                        wiring; Stagnant waters
                                                                                        around the toilets


12/06/13   Sinchu Baliya Upper Basic   Classrooms (9)    Mr. Abdou Bah Vice        Poor finishing –ceiling fans
                                                         Principal                 coming off; Poor backfilling of
                                                                                   the toilets.




                                                    32
           Annex 5 PROGRAMME FOR THE TRAINING WORKSHOPS

       1) TRAINING WORKSHOP: An Environmental Assessment Seminar for Senior Managers

Target Audience:
   i.  Senior Management of MoBSE ( Permanent Secretary, Directors, Managers); and
  ii.   Representatives of Collaborating Institutions ( Ministry for Local Government, GAMWORKS,
       Regional Governors, etc)

Duration: One day

Objectives:
  i.  Appreciation/understanding of the rationale for EA especially with respect to infrastructural
      projects
 ii.   Familiarisation with the World Bank safeguards policies and national legislations with respect to
      safeguard policies and instruments with particular reference to infrastructural projects;
iii.   Understanding the process and stages involved in EIA

Module
The module will consist of the following:
   i.      .An overview of the E&S assessment process;
  ii.      Definition of Concepts and Instruments;
 iii.      World Bank Safeguard policies and National Legislations; and
 iv.       Presentation of Stages in the EIA process


       2) TRAINING WORKSHOP: An Environmental Assessment Seminar for Middle level
          Mangers and Technicians

           Target Audience:
              i.  Middle level managers and technical staff from PCU;
             ii.  Construction monitors;
            iii.   Contractors; and
            iv.    Staff from collaborating institutions

        Duration: 3 days
Objectives:
      i.    Create awareness and understanding of the importance of EA especially with respect to
               infrastructural projects;
         ii.   Be familiar with the conceptual and methodological aspects of carrying out simple
               Assessment of infrastructural project; and
        iii.   Have the knowledge and skills to screen and categorise subprojects and set up simple


                                                       33
            monitoring process of the mitigation measures based on EA


Module:
The module will comprise the following:
    i.  .An overview of the E&S Assessment process-
   ii.  Definition of Concepts and Instruments
  iii.  Presentation of Stages in the EIA process with particular reference to infrastructure projects
        -National Policy and regulatory framework legislation
        - World Bank Safeguard policies
iv      Presentation of different environmental and social management plans in terms of
        -mitigation,
        -monitoring, and
       - institutional arrangements




                                                    34
ANNEX 6

       SUMMARY OF DISCUSSIONS HELD WITH STAKEHOLDERS

 In preparing the environment and social audit consultations were held with various categories of
stakeholders in Banjul and in the regions. Discussions specifically relating to land issues are set out in
the second report dealing with involuntary resettlement.

           6.1 Meetings with the Staff of MoBSE

           6.1.1 The Project Coordination Unit (PCU): Tuesday 22nd May 2013

 The Consultant had an initial briefing at the PCU of the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education
 with the Projects Manager, Mr. Sheriff Yunus Hydara, the Construction Manager, Mr. Ebou S. Gaye
 and the Quantity Surveyor, Mr. Addison Gomez.
  The meeting discussed the importance of the study and the urgent need to have it finalized in order to
 avoid any delay in the succeeding phase. Mr. Hydara explained that because of the limited time there
 was not enough time to recruit a second consultant to carry out the ESMF study as the one identified
 earlier was unavailable. Consequently he asked the consultant to do the two studies since, in his view,
 the two studies were similar. He further explained that since the Third Education Project is a Category
 B project no major adverse environmental impacts were likely to arise during implementation even
 though a systematic review of all project activities is necessary to clearly document cases of negative
 impact.
 The whole issue of environmental safeguards, he said, was raised by the World Bank Environmentalist,
 Mr. Amadou Konare, during one of the Bank’s supervision missions. Mr. Konare had ob served that the
 necessary screening and environment management procedures were not followed nor were the required
 structures in place for the implementation of the safeguard policies. Mr. Hydara said this situation
 needed to be addressed urgently and thus the present consultancy to rectify the situation.
 The Quantity Surveyor, Mr. Addison remarked that an important disconnect was the missing link
 between the Ministry and the National Environment Agency (NEA) which has an important role in
 assisting in the establishment of the management structures as well as the monitoring programme.
 Following the visit of the Bank discussions have started with the Agency with a view to signing a
 memorandum of understanding between the two institutions.
  In reply to the question from the consultant as to whether funds were provided for the inspection and
 monitoring exercise, the Project Manager replied that an amount of US$15,000 was allocated in the
 Project for monitoring which was never used. He concluded by insisting on the need, henceforth, to get
 the NEA fully involved in the environment component of the project, all construction contracts will
 now have an environment clause and in future NEA will be invited to sit on the Contracts Committee.
 Mr Gaye also welcomed this consultancy and expressed the need to associate NEA closely with the
 construction works in order to avoid or mitigate any negative environment impacts. However, he
 explained that some of the likely environmental impacts are addressed in the construction guidelines
 which are reflected in the bill of quantities at the time of tender. There might, however be other cases
 not covered by the guidelines.
 Mr. Hydara made reference to the case of land issues notably that of Tallinding Annex Lower and
 Upper Basic Schools, Brufut Upper Basic School and the Farafenni Senior Secondary School. He

                                                    35
  explained that in these cases land allocated to the school was encroached upon, sometimes resulting in
  permanent lost of part of the land. He invited the Consultant to examine these and similar cases.

            6.1.2   Meeting with Permanent Secretary: Tuesday 28th May 2013

The Consultant had a meeting with the Permanent Secretary, Mr. Baboucar Bouy, with Messrs. Sheriff
Yunus Hydara, and Addison Gomez in attendance.
 The Permanent Secretary re-emphasized the importance of this study and its timely completion to avoid
delay in the start up of other activities. From now onwards, he said the Ministry, would like to
mainstream environment and social issues in its projects from the start to the implementation and post
implementation phases. He made reference to the issue of land which he wanted to have examined more
closely since it came up during the visit of the World Bank Supervision Mission. Generally, the Ministry
intervenes only after the annual school mapping exercise that identifies access gaps. But even before them
the Ministry would have received many applications for schools indicating the availability of land for a
school. The mapping exercise helps to objectively determine a priority listing. The land, he said, is
provided by the community and it is usually community land. Land, he said, is not an issue here in The
Gambia as in other countries such as Ethiopia.
Mr. Bouy also referred to cases where land ear-marked/ allocated for school may not be built upon in time
with the result that part of it may be encroached upon resulting in a reduced land for the school. He
referred to the case of Farafenni Senior Secondary School where part of the original land for the school
was given to Fire Brigade. In fact, in some cases the exact demarcation of the land allocated to the school
is not known nor is there any documentation from the alkali to confirm ownership. These are issues which
the Permanent Secretary said needs to be reviewed for the future. He requested the Consultant to sound
the opinion of the local communities especially the Alkalos on this matter.
With regard to compensation for land acquisition, the Permanent Secretary said he could only recall one
such case relating to Abuko Lower Basic School for which land had to be acquired from an individual
because there was no community land available in the area. This happened well before the Third
Education Project. However, he urged the Consultant to see for himself what is on the ground and bring
up any cases of dispute or compensation relating to land.
 Another issue of concern to the Permanent Secretary was the negative environmental impacts such as
erosion at Ker Cherno School which, according to him, might be as result of poor siting of the building.
Some schools also experience flooding because of poor drainage during the rains resulting in unhygienic
conditions for the children and the teachers. Until recently Barra –Essau Senior Secondary School was in
such a situation. These are also issues that the Permanent Secretary said he would like the Consultant to
look into.

          6.2 Meetings with the Civil Works Contractors

               6.2.1 Meeting with Future In Our Hands (FIOH)-Wednesday 30th May 2013

 The meeting which took place at the Headquarters of FIOH was attended by Messrs. Landing Sagnia
 (Director), Daniel Mendy (Works Overseer) and Bambo Bah (Project Officer). Mr. Addison Gomez was
 also present. FIOH is a local NGO contracted to construct 108 classrooms, rehabilitate 144 in both urban
 and rural areas and rehabilitate 15 staff quarters.
The contractor confirmed awareness of the ESMF. Mr. Mendy further stated that some of the
                                                   36
environmental and safety requirements are already incorporated in their own work standards; for example
all work sites are fenced off to prevent children from accessing the site; after construction the site is
cleared and landscaped. The consultant remarked that the site at St. Theresa’s Lower Basic does not have
any protective fencing with the result that the site is easily accessible to children with all the risks that this
entails. The Contractor replied that the encing was only pulled down recently because work was almost
finished and they were about to start the landscaping.
Mr. Mendy raised the issue of water shortage in the school and urged that Ministry should address this
since lack of water means some of the toilets cannot be used thus reducing access to improved toilet
facilities for the children. He also pointed out that Talinding Annex needs to have its own meter
connection to NAWEC as the present water supply is coming from Tallinding Proper Lower Basic.
The contractor also referred to cases of poor siting resulting in serious erosion as in Nioro Jataba. If this
situation is allowed to continue, he said, the school buildings may be affected, he said.
The contractor also mentioned that some of the environmental challenges they face in the Provinces
include access to sand and access roads to the sites. Unlike laterite which is often found on unproductive
land sand often occurs in productive lands which may sometimes be under cultivation so that siting a
quarry in such cases can be problematic. Access to quarries may also be a problem as the roads are often
narrow for the type of trucks used to transport sand and they sometimes pass through crop fields. In such
cases the local community sometimes charges some form of “royalty? payment as in the case of Misera.
In response to the question as to what they in cases like this the contractor replied that they contract out
the supply of sand to a local contractor who pays any fees/levies charged by the community.
Comment: Whilst this may address the immediate needs of contractors it does not address the
fundamental question of what happens to all these sand quarries used by different projects when these
projects complete their construction works. What are their environmental impacts?

              6.2.2 Meeting with Child Fund Friday 31st May 2013

The meeting with Child Fund took place at the headquarters of the organisation and was chaired by Mr.
Mustapha Kebbeh, Acting Country Director, with Mr. Addison Gomez in attendance. Child Fund is a
local NGO contracted to build and furnish 15 classrooms.
 The Acting Director confirmed awareness of the ESMF. He said for all their operations Child Fund
abides by a certain environmental code which is similar in many respects to the requirements of the
ESMF. There are environmental guidelines with respect to accessing raw materials such as sand and as a
result they only remove sand from Government designated areas.
For healthy and environment safety the Agency insists that all its workers wear protective helmets and
work sites are fenced off to deny access to school children. Noise levels during construction, he said, are
minimised by doing activities that generate a lot of noise either in the afternoon after school or on
weekends when there is no school.
All waste generated he said are removed after construction if they cannot be used again. With respect to
land issues the contractor said they were not involved in this as they only come in when land has already
been acquired and given to them to build on.




                                                       37
        6.2.3 Meeting with the GAMWORKS

The meeting with GAMWORKS took place on Monday 3rd June 2013 at the headquarters of the Agency
with the Director General Mr. Ebrima Cham with Mr. Addison Gomez in attendance. After the usual
welcome Mr. Cham explained that his Agency has a delegated management contract with MOBSE and
under this contract they are responsible for tendering, selecting and supervising the contractors. At the
start of work there is a start-up meeting with the contractor during which they discuss the key components
of the contract and their expectations from the contractor in terms of performance. In addition to there are
monthly meetings as well supervision visits.
In reply to the question on the ESMF and the RPF the Director General said the “documents were not
shared?. With respect to land he said they were not involved in the acquisitio n. The sites are determined
by MoBSE. To his knowledge there were no problems with the land owners. Most of the sites for the
buildings are located within existing school premises so there was no land issue. It was only at Brusubi
and Gunjur that construction took place on new land.
On health and safety Mr. Cham said he regularly remind contractors about them. Currently many of these
things are not codified ,he said.
In conclusion Mr. Cham recommended that the ESMF and the RPF should be brought to the attention of
the stakeholders and that some of the issues raised in them should be codified with guideline on their
application. Finally, he said the environmental and social concerns should be included in the tender
documents.

    6.3 Meeting at the National Environment Agency

The meeting took place at the headquarters of the Agency on Monday 3rd June 2013. The meeting was
chaired by the Acting Executive Secretary, Mrs. Ndey Sireh Bakurin, and attended by Mr. Malick Bah,
the Environment Impact Assessment Officer, NEA; Mr. Modou Suwareh, Networks Director, NEA and
Mr. Addison Gomez PCU, MoBSE.
The acting Executive Secretary lamented the failure, in the past, to get NEA more closely involved in the
implementation of this project. She indicated that other government agencies such as the Ministry of
Agriculture had used the services of NEA in preparing the EIP of their project and she saw no reason
why it should not be the same Education. However, now that discussions are on for the development of a
framework agreement , an MoU she said she looked forward to improved collaboration in future.
She reaffirmed her Agency’s willingness and capacity to fully execute the responsibility of guiding the
screening process, and support for the monitoring, particularly since they now have Environment Focal
Point in each of the regions. It was explained that in the regions it is the Agriculture and Natural
Resources Working Group that functions as the EIA Working Group.
On the issue of training Mrs. Bakurin also confirmed the Agency’s ability to conduct workshops on EIA
as such training programmes have already been organized before.
Before concluding Mrs. Bakurin insisted on the need to have all stakeholders sensitised about the project
and the safeguard instruments.




                                                    38
        6.4 Meeting with school Authorities during the field Visit

The meeting with the school authorities brought out certain issues of concern with respect to the buildings
and water facilities. These concerns were the subject of the main body of the report. Annex 4 gives a
summary of specific issues raised in each of the schools visited.




                                                   39
6.5 Some Photos of Sites Visited



Room in staff quarters at Wassadun                        Construction site at Serrekunda Lower Basic




Cracked top of well with hand pump at                       Torn wire gauze in one of the quarters
Tankongkunda Lower Basic




Broken asbestos roofing at Serrekunda Lower Basic        Erosion of classroom building at Kerr Cherno




                                                    40
                       Madina Kunkunding Lower Basic School

Traditional latrine in use                         Modern Flush Toilets which cannot be used




Standing water around tap at Kass Wollof           Solar powered water supply system at Kass
                                                   Wollof lower Basic
Lower Basic School




Unpaved backyard at Kunjata Lower Basic            Construction site at Tallinding Annex




                                              41
Annex 7

Bibliography
    1. Third Education Project Environmental And Social Management Framework, MoBSEE
                                             March 2006

   2. The World Bank Operational Manuel Bank Procedures Environmental Assessment BP
      4.01 January 1999-Revised in April 2013
   3. The World Bank Operational Manuel Bank Procedures Environmental Assessment BP
      4.01 Annex A January 1999 -Revised February 2011
   4. Health care waste management plan 2005-2010, The Gambia
   5. National Environment Management ACT 1994, The Gambia
   6. EIA procedures, Banjul, July 1999 The Gambia
   7. EIA Guide lines, March 1990, The Gambia
   8. State of the Environment – Report – National Environment Agency, Banjul February2010.
   9. World Bank Supervision Mission Aide Memoire Ida/Gpe Pre-Appraisal Mission, Banjul,
   10. Project Appraisal Document For A Proposed Catalytic Fund Grant In The Amount Of
      Us$ 28.0 Million To The Republic Of The Gambia For A Mach 23rd - April 5th 2013
      Education For All – Fast Track Initiative Program- July 16, 2009
   11. The Gambia Education Sector Review Aide memoire World Bank June 11-22 2012
   12. Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Grant to the Republic of The Gambia for the
      Third Education Sector Project in the amount of SDR 3.5 Million in Pilot CRW
      Resources (Us$ 5.5 Million Equivalent)to the Republic of The Gambia April 16, 2010
   13. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in The Amount of SDR 5.5 Million
      (Us$ 8 Million Equivalent)to the Government of The Gambia for a Third Education
      Project-Phase II Project 30 May 2006
   14. The International Finance Corporation December 1998 Procedure for Environmental and
      Social Review of Projects




                                             42
Annex 8


 TERMS OF THE REFERENCE FOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL AUDIT OF THE
  IMPLEMENTATION OF THE THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT and EFA FTI CATALYTIC
                                FUND

    1. BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION

The Government of The Gambia, through the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education (MOBSE), has
been implementing the third phase of its education program as well as the EFA FTI Catalytic Fund aimed
at improving educational standards throughout the country.

The Gambia’s education system has gone through various mutations over the years in response to
changing conditions and requirements of its population as well as the international context. In this regard
and in order to render the policy functional, a strategic plan was developed in order to:
      Provide access to and high quality education for all,
      Provide the appropriate services,
      Ensure gender equity in education,
      Provide life skills and
      Promote the culture of life-long learning.


2. OBJECTIVES OF THE TERMS OF REFERENCE

These Terms of Reference (ToR) aim at selecting a consultant for the implementation of an
environmental and social audit (ESA) of the activities of the two ongoing projects. The objective of the
ESA is to assess and monitor compliance and environmental and social performance of the project.
The audit will enable to:


  and safeguards policies and procedures of the World Bank;
                                              -compliance of said safeguard instruments;

                                           rmance of compensatory/mitigation measures
  recommended by different studies. That is, the Environmental and Social
 Management Framework (ESMF) and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), that have
 been prepared to guide the implementation of the projects on environmental on safeguards
 grounds.

The purpose of the social audit is to assess and monitor the compliance of projects with the
provisions contained in the RPF. The projects supported: : (i) Construction/rehabilitation in existing
schools premises, rehabilitation of classrooms to become elearning centers, (ii) Classrooms
construction/rehabilitation on new sites and teacher quarters. In the former scenario, cases of involuntary
resettlement seem rather unlikely. In the latter, there may be potential for involuntary resettlement, if its
proven that the construction site is not a communal land and that there is clear evidence that the project
activities may results in loss of assets, economic activities and/or livelihoods on the part of affected
people in the project intervention areas/zones. All of this will require further social assessment on
construction activities of that nature, followed adequate compensation measures, in accordance with the

                                                    43
provisions and guidelines of the RPF. The audit will enable to:


the laws and regulations in force in the country and in accordance with the Resettlement Policy
Framework. The consultant will work in accordance with Policy 4.12 of the Bank's Involuntary
Resettlement of Populations;

(RAP) and the cause of non-compliance;
                             are no complaints or unresolved disputes pending;

disclosure of information and consensus with agreed consultations proceedings;
                            complaints or potential conflicts pending and where they exist, evaluate the
resolution mechanism set up and schedule final resolution;

specifies the different scenarios to assist the Project Affected Persons (PAPs) in their efforts to improve
their conditions.

4. SCOPE OF THE CONSULTANT SERVICES

The services will mainly include:
• A description of the initial state;
• A very brief summary of the main activities of the projects (IDA Third Education Sector Program and
EFA FTI CF);
• The presentation of audit standards;
• The data collection;
• The data analysis;
• The development of two separate reports for each task, namely a report on the environmental audit and
another on social audit.

4.1 Description of the initial state

The consultant will strive to present a brief review of the initial state of the main sites affected by the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of school infrastructure funded by IDA and EFA-FTI. To this end, the
consultant will use the provisions of existing safeguard instruments, in this case the ESMF and RPF,
complemented by the Project Implementation Manuel (PIM).

4.2 Summary of project activities

The consultant will present the project activities according to the main implementation phases of the
works, with environmental and social impacts and to this end, he (s) / her (s) may refer to various project
performance reports and consider interviews with different stakeholders and witnesses of the project
implementation (member/staff of the PCU, contractors, the beneficiaries and the PAPs). References of
people met with the exact dates and the data must constitute annexes to the report.

4.3 Repository of the Environmental and Audit

The repository of the ESA is the basis of analysis criteria for drawing conclusions from the environmental
and social audit.

Taking into account the context of funding and implementation of the projects, the repository of the audit
will result from:

                                                   44
- Reports of Studies of Social and Environmental Impact (This is the ESMF, CPR, site-specific ESIA,
ESMP and/or RAP);
- Monitoring reports by PCU etc.
- Advice and recommendations of the Ministry in charge of environment;
- Guidelines of OP 4.12 and OP 4.01of the World Bank guidelines;

4.4 Data collection

Data collection will allow the consultant to prepare the evidence to support the environmental and social
audit, it will be done through:

- A form/questionnaire for data collection;
- Interviews with people involved in the projects;
-Interviews with individuals and beneficiaries of compensation and evaluation of the consultation process
with the PAP;
- Field visits and observations;
- Measures or assessments of various environmental and social impacts of the projects;
- The various reports of incidents or complaints of the people;
- Mechanisms for handling complaints.

In general, the consultant will collect data or information about the projects area:
- The biophysical/ambient environment
- The socio-economic situation of affected populations;
- The various cultural sites, cultural heritage, historical sites etc.;
- Compensation Measures, training
- Communication and information on the progress of the projects

4.5 Analysis of data

The data collected will be analyzed by the use of appropriate tools to highlight among other aspects:
- The environmental and social compliance with the provisions of the ESMF and RPF;
- The non-compliances concerning the implementation of the ESMF and RPF:
o Opinions and recommendations of the ministry responsible for the environment; and
o Guidelines / procedures of the World Bank;

4.6 Conclusions of the Environmental and Social Audit

The findings of the Environmental and Social Audit include:
• A summary of compliance;
• A summary of non-compliance;
• A description of measures to remedy or mitigate the effects of non-compliance;
•An assessment of the costs of implementation of remedial measures with a timetable for implementation;
• A monitoring plan for repairs/ corrective actions/measures;
• Recommendations for measuring social impact mitigations, with detailed timeline with the roles and
responsibilities of stakeholders.

The reports will be prepared in accordance with various phases of the audit and shall contain a summary
of less than ten pages.

5. ORGANISATION OF THE STUDY


                                                     45
5.1. Sponsor and monitoring

The sponsor of the Environmental and Social Audit is the Project Coordination Unit which is
coordinating the IDA and EFA-FTI projects. The various tasks of the ESA of the Audit will be monitored
and verified by the PCU, NEA. The NEA will comment on all reports of a temporary nature and guide the
implementation of the Environmental and Social Audit. The audit report is then submitted to the Bank for
review, comments and approval.

5.2 Duration and Reports
The overall duration of the audit should not exceed six (6) weeks
The consultant will provide the following reports for each task:

- Report preparation of the audit including:
o The description of the initial state,
o The recall of project activities,
o The reference of the audit;

- Report data collection in five copies;
- The data analysis and the findings of the audit in 3-4 copies
- The summary of the audit report by 10 + 5 CD.

The environmental audit report will be written in English.

6. OBLIGATIONS OF PROMOTER
In order to ensure successful completion of this audit, the PCU shall make available to the Consultant
plans and technical studies and all available information relating to the EFA-FTI and IDA project
activities.

7. OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONSULTANT
As part of the implementation of this audit, the Consultant will be required to comply with
confidentiality. They should do so, both during and after the mission it. Therefore, all information and
documents made available should be considered confidential.

8. COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT TEAM
Achieving this environmental audit must be made by a team of a social specialist and a social specialist,
both of whom should be familiar with environmental audits approach and procedures, with recognized
experience in carrying out similar work in The Gambia.

6. OBLIGATIONS OF PROMOTER
In order to ensure successful completion of this audit, the Promoter shall make available to the Consultant
plans and technical studies and all available information relating to the projects.

7. OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONSULTANT
As part of the implementation of this audit, the Consultant will be required to comply with
confidentiality. Therefore, all information and documents made available should be considered
confidential.

8. COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT TEAM
Achieving this environmental audit must, ideally, be made by a team of an environmental specialist and a
social specialist, familiar with the approach, guidelines and procedures of environmental and social
auditing, and with experience in carrying out similar work in the Gambia.

                                                     46
9. CONTENT OF THE REPORT
The content of the report should include the following elements:

- The executive summary of the audit, in English;
- Introduction;
- The description of the site (environmental and historical context);
- The environmental action plan, including the plan of environmental management, and the plan of
emergency measures.
- The conclusions and recommendations;
- Recommendations for additional studies;
- Annexes:
o Terms of reference of the audit,
o List of persons interviewed/met,
o Names of the persons who carried out the audit;
o questionnaires for surveys and semi-structured interviews,
o Minutes of consultation meetings held with local communities and other stakeholders..
o Site location, drawings and photographs,
o Any other relevant information

10. DURATION OF THE ASSIGNMENT
The duration of the audit including field visits shall not exceed six weeks of service + 3-4 days of revision
and finalization of report after validation workshop with stakeholders.




                                                    47
