                                                               RP424 V2

                   Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education
                             Willy Thorpe Building
                                      Banjul
_________________________________________________________________



    DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL AUDIT REPORT ON THE
 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT AND EFA-
                                    FTI CATALYTIC FUND



            PART 2 – THE RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK




One of the newly constructed staff quarters




                                                            Bolong L. Sonko
                                                             Consultant

                                              August 2013

                                                   i
                                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


SECTION                                                                                         PAGE

LIST OF ACRONYMS--------------------------------------------------------------------             IV
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY----------------------------------------------------------------                V


1.0     INTRODUCTION------------------------------------------------------------------           1

2.0     PROJECT BACKGROUND-----------------------------------------------------                  1

3.0     OBJECTIVES OF THE AUDIT -----------------------------------------------                  1

4.0     METHODOLOGY-----------------------------------------------------------------             2

5.0     POLICY AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR LAND
        ACQUISTION AND INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT--------------                                    2

        5.1      Land Administration--------------------------------------------------------     2

        5.2      World Bank Safeguard Policies-------------------------------------------        4

        5.3      Comparative Analysis of Gambian Laws with World Bank
                 Safeguard Policy OP4.12---------------------------------------------------      4

        5.4      Guidelines of the Resettlement Policy Framework---------------------            5

 6.0    FINDINGS----------------------------------------------------------------------------     6

        6.1      Lack of Compliance with Basic Requirements of RPF----------------               6

        6.2      Disclosure and Awareness of the Safeguard Instrument---------------             6

        6.3      Land Acquisition------------------------------------------------------------    7

        6.4      Compliance with National Laws------------------------------------------         7

        6.5      Compliance with World Bank Safeguard Policy-----------------------              7

        6.6      Other Findings-----------------------------------------------------------       7



 7.0    CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS------------------------------                             10




                                                          ii
                                            ANNEXES


Annex 1:   Assessment forms/Discussion Points---------------------------------------             9


Annex 2:   List of Persons Contacted----------------------------------------------------         12


Annex 3:   Photo Gallery of Some Sites Visited---------------------------------------------- 14

Annex 4:   Bibliography--------------------------------------------------------------------      16

Annex 5: Terms of Reference for an Environmental and Social Audit of the

           Implementation of the Third Education Project and the EFA-FTI
            Catalytic Fund--------------------------------------------------------------------   17




                                                  iii
                    ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS


1.    EFA       -   Education For All

2.    EFP       -   Environment Focal Point

3.    EIA       -   Environmental Impact Assessment

4.    EMP       -   Environmental Management Plan

5.    ESIA      -   Environmental and Social Impact Assessment

6.    ESMF      -   Environmental and Social Management Framework

7.    FIOH      -   Future In Our Hands

8.    FTI       -   Fast Track Initiative

9.    GAMWORKS -    Gambia Agency for Public Works

10.   GEAP      -   Gambia Environment Action Plan

11.   IDA       -   International Development Association

12.   MoBSE     -   Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education

13.   MOHERST   -   Ministry of Higher Education, Research, Science and Technology

14.   NAWEC     -   National Water and Electricity Company

15.   NEA       -   National Environment Agency

16.   NGO       -   Non Government Agency

17.   PAP       -   Project Affected Persons

18.   PCU       -   Projects Coordination Unit (Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education)

19.   RAP       -   Resettlement Action Plan

20.   RPF       -   Resettlement Policy Framework

21.   STI       -   Science and Technology Innovation

22.   WB        -   World Bank




                                        iv
                                      EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The present study is the Social Audit Report on the implementation of the Third Education Project and
the EFA- FTI Catalytic Fund. The Report deals with land acquisition and involuntary resettlement
matters.

The Government of The Gambia, through the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education (MoBSE), has
been implementing the Third Education Sector Project with financing from International Development
Association (IDA) and the Education For All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA- FTI) Catalytic Fund. The main
Project objective is to improve the conditions for teaching and learning in basic education by: (i)
improving performance of students, teachers and schools; (ii) strengthening capacity building and
performance management, and enhancing monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) continuing expansion of
effective access to under-served communities.

The three main components of the Project were: (i) Improving the conditions for teaching and learning;
(ii) Strengthened capacity building, performance management, and monitoring and evaluation; and (iii)
Expansion of Effective Access. The project activities that could potentially trigger the environmental and
social safeguards are the civil works under Component 3


An initial environmental assessment has placed the project in Category B. As the specific subproject sites
were not identified at the time of appraisal an Environmental and Social Management Framework
(ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were prepared to evaluate the potential
environmental and social impacts of the project. According to these safeguard instruments all
infrastructural subprojects are to be screened before implementation starts and where the results indicate
adverse impacts, mitigation measure should be developed to reduce, minimise or prevent the negative
impacts. In cases of major negative environmental impacts the ESMF recommended a separate
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).

The objectives of the audit are:

   i.    Verify compliance with legal provisions, including compliance with national legislation and
         safeguards policies and procedures of the World Bank;

  ii.    Identify and manage knowingly cases of non-compliance of said safeguard instruments;

  iii.   Improve communication on the management of the project safeguard requirements;

  iv.    Assess the environmental and social performance of compensatory/mitigation measures
         recommended by different studies. That is, the Environmental and Social Management
         Framework (ESMF) and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), that have been prepared to
         guide the implementation of the projects on environmental on safeguards grounds.




                                                    v
A.      FINDINGS

The findings of the study are based on interviews, discussions and site visits.

Appreciation of the Local Communities for the Project

 The communities expressed very deep appreciation for the schools which are having a lot of positive
impacts on their lives. These include increased access to education particularly for the poorer and distant
communities and having children closer to home whilst going to school, an important factor in
considering girls education. The facilities also provided healthier and safer environment for learning
through the provision of safe drinking water and hygienic toilet facilities with separate ones for each of
the sexes.

Land Acquisition for the Schools

In many cases, construction took place on land already owned by the school although, in a few cases, land
was obtained from the community. In all cases where land was given by the community it was given
voluntarily sometimes as a way of attracting Government sponsorship for the school. There is a high
demand for education in all the places visited and a strong desire to have children go to school as close to
home as possible especially for the lower basic cycle.

 The land given by the community could be community land reserved for such general purposes, as in the
case of Tintinto village (Region 2) or it could be land belonging to the alkali or a member of his family as
in the case of Nioro Jattaba (Region 4) and Sare Samba (Region 6) or individual members of the
community who happen to own land in an area suitable for a school or staff quarters as in Sare Gubu
(Region 6).

Compliance with National Laws

Although the RPF was not complied with there were no cases of breaking Gambian laws because there
was no compulsory acquisition. In all cases relating to land there was ample consultation among the
community members and between the community and MoBSE. In most cases, in keeping with the
procedure for obtaining a Government school, the community is required to start the school on its own
first in order to assess its sustainability before Government takes it over. The issue of land is therefore
resolved at the community level before the Government’s intervention. Whe re land is donated, it is done
so without any request for compensation, either in kind or in cash. In the discussions during the field
visit, all those who gave land said they had done so for the benefit of the community without seeking any
compensation either in kind or in cash.

Compliance with the WB Safeguards Policies and Procedures

The infrastructural programme of the Third Education Sector Programme was the subject of a
resettlement policy framework which was prepared in 2006. The project is therefore in conformity with
the World Bank safeguard requirements OP4.12 Resettlement Policy Framework. However, the

                                                     vi
subprojects were not screened.
The small size of the infrastructure works in the sites visited did not, however, generate any major
negative social and economic impacts because most of the construction took place in existing school
premises or on land provided by the community. Besides the loss of land no major negative social and
economic impacts were generated in terms of relocation, loss of livelihood or access to economic assets.
Consequently safeguard instrument OP 4.12 was not triggered by the construction works. In all the sites
visited there was no objection or counterclaim for the land allocated.

Other Findings during the Visit

During the field visit some cases came up where unoccupied land belonging to the school was used for
farming by some members of the local community. Such practices are based on a local agreement with
the school administrators and they help to keep the school grounds tidy and free of weeds, rodents and
snakes while the school is out of session during the rainy season. One such case relates to Tallinding
Annex Upper Basic School where some women from the community are allowed to grow rice in
the unoccupied grounds of the school compound based on a local agreement that allows them to
grow rice as long as they wish with no intention to deprive them of their livelihoods.
 In some of these cases the communities use part of the harvest to contribute to the school feeding of the
children when the school is back in session or, if any of the harvest is sold, they give some of the
proceeds back to the school.


Cases of encroachment on land already allocated to schools also came up in places such as Madina
Kunkunding Lower Basic and in Old Yundum Lower Basic where part of the land belonging to the
school was reallocated by the community for other uses.


    B.    CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS


Although the project did not create any negative social and economic impacts it is recommended that:

    1) Future projects fully comply with the RPF guidelines to ensure that all new subprojects sites are
         properly screened;


    2) The Ministry should formally acquire and record all land that is assigned to the schools
         before school construction. Such documents should have the signature/thumb print of the
         Alkali and three community leaders including the representative of the kabilo/family giving the
         land. Once the land has been acquired it should be clearly demarcated by fencing.


    3) It is further recommended that all lands belonging to schools in The Gambia should have the
         ownership status fully documented by the issuance of a certificate of ownership to help prevent

                                                    vii
   any disputes in future, particularly in the rapidly growing peri-urban areas and provincial growth
   centres. Copies of such documents should be deposited at the school, the Regional Directorates
   and at the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education.


4) The practice of allowing members the community to farm on the unoccupied lands of the school
   should be allowed to continue as it is beneficial to both parties. However, in the urban and peri-
   urban areas such as in Tallinding Annex the school administration may wish to have this
   informal agreement between the women and school to be in writing, with an opt out clause by the
   school should they decide to expand sometime in the future and need the available land for
   another purpose.




                         _______________________________________




                                              viii
                                          ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


The Consultant wishes to express gratitude to all the staff of the Ministry of Basic and Secondary
Education notably:

        Mr. Baboucarr Boye – Permanent Secretary;

        Mr. Sheriff Yunus Hydara – Manager, Projects Coordination Unit,

        Mr. Ebou S. Gaye- Construction Manager,

        Mr. Addison Gomez- Quantity Surveyor,

        Mr. Sulayman Jarju- Construction Monitor, Region 6

        Mr. Musa Jassy- Construction Monitor, Region 2

        Mrs. Fatoumatta Ceesay, Principal, Tallinding Upper Basic School


for their invaluable support and assistance.




                                                    ix
1.0         INTRODUCTION

The present study is the second part of the Environment and Social audit report on the implementation of
the Third Education Project and the EFA- FTI Catalytic Fund. The Report deals with land acquisition and
involuntary resettlement matters.

2.0         PROJECT BACKGROUND

The Government of The Gambia, through the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education (MoBSE), has
been implementing the Third Education Sector Project with financing from International Development
Association (IDA) and the Education For All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA- FTI) Catalytic Fund. The main
Project objective is to improve the conditions for teaching and learning in basic education by: (i)
improving performance of students, teachers and schools; (ii) strengthening capacity building and
performance management, and enhancing monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) continuing expansion of
effective access to under-served communities.

The Project has three main components:

(i)         Improving the conditions for teaching and learning;

(ii)        Strengthened capacity building, performance management, and monitoring and evaluation; and

(iii)       Expansion of Effective Access

The project activities that could potentially trigger the environmental and social safeguards are the civil
works under Component 3 which consisted of building and furnishing a total of 252 classrooms, 35 staff
quarters and 20 water points (8 boreholes and 12 concrete lined wells).

3.0         OBJECTIVES OF THE AUDIT

The present audit examines the extent of compliance with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) in addressing the potential social and other negative impacts of the project. The
specific objectives of the audit are:

       a)      Verify compliance with legal provisions, including compliance with national legislation and
               safeguards policies and procedures of the World Bank;

       b)      Identify and manage knowingly cases of non-compliance of said safeguard instruments;

       c)      Improve communication on the management of the project safeguard requirements;

       d)       Assess the environmental and social performance of compensatory/mitigation measures
               recommended by different studies. That is, the Environmental and Social Management
               Framework (ESMF) and the RPF, that have been prepared to guide the implementation of the
               projects on environmental on safeguards grounds.


                                                       1
4.0     METHODOLOGY

The methodology consists of the review of relevant background documents (both print and electronic) and
consultations with the various stakeholders, field visits and a national workshop to review the draft report.
Copies of the tools used as guides in discussions and in the assessments are attached as Annex 1. The list
of the people contacted is in Annex 2.

5.0     POLICY AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR LAND ACQUISITION
        INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT

The RPF prepared a screening process to determine the land requirements of specific subprojects of the
Third Education Sector Project and spelt out the principles and procedures that will govern land
acquisition, compensation and economic assistance to project-affected persons (PAPs) in compliance with
the laws of the Republic of The Gambia and the World Bank Safeguard policy OP 4.12. Below is a
summary presentation of the relevant national laws and the World Bank Safeguard policy OP 4.12.

5.1      Land Administration in The Gambia

The Ministry for Local Government and Lands is the main Government agency responsible for land
administration in The Gambia. It is supported in this role by two key technical departments: the
Department of Lands and Surveys and the Department of Physical Planning and Housing. The former is
responsible for the survey, mapping and demarcation of national and international boundaries and
government layouts whereas the latter is responsible for ensuring the rational and equitable utilization of
the available land resources. In addition there is the Land Commission which, in co-ordination with
relevant public agencies and government institutions, manages lands vested in the state and provides
advice to the Minister on land matters.

5.1.1 Land Tenure in The Gambia

Land tenure in both the provinces and the state land areas fall under three main categories:

i.      Customary;
ii.     State Ownership;
iii.    Leasehold; and
iv.     Free hold.

Customary or traditional tenure is an interest or title which a member of the larger community acquires in
the communal land. It is an interest which is held as of right by virtue of being a member of the
community. The member who holds such interest has the right of beneficial occupation; unfettered use
(subject to the laws of the country). Upon death, the interest devolves on his/her successors in title ad
infinitum. This form of tenure is mostly prevalent in the Provinces.

State owned lands are public lands which have been specifically acquired by the government under an
appropriate enactment using the state powers of eminent domain. Currently the relevant legal instrument

                                                     2
is the State Lands Act of 1991, which provides for the compulsory acquisition for public purposes or in
the public interest. Under such ownership the rights become vested in the government which can then
proceed to dispose of the lands by way of leases, certificate of allocations etc. to the relevant beneficiary
state institutions as well as private individuals and organizations.

Lease hold tenure involves the execution of a lease between individual(s) and the Government/ District
Authority for a period of twenty one years for Provincial lands and ninety nine years in the state lands
area. It is an interest in land for a specified period. Various terms and conditions may be imposed by the
grantor including the payment of rent as consideration for the grant.

Free hold tenure is the highest form of ownership with no term limits and is only created by express grant
from the crown or the Government. It is a rare form of tenure which confers absolute ownership of the
land and it exist mainly in Banjul and the immediate suburbs.

5.1.2 Land Legislations

The main legislations relating to land administration in the Gambia are the State Lands Act 1991 and the
Lands (Provinces) Act, CAP 103. The former is the principal land legislation on all state lands and the
latter deals with provincial land administration. Under the State Lands Act 1991 the administration of all
state lands is vested in the Hon. Minister for Local Government and Lands. The Act covers lands in the
entire Kombo St. Mary as well the districts of Kombo North, South and Central all in West Coast Region.
All such lands are to be administered by the State ‘for the use and common benefit, direct or indirect of
the community in which such land is situated.’

The Lands (Provinces) Act Cap. 103 of the Laws of the Gambia vests all land in the Provinces in the
District Authority who will administer it for the use and common benefit of the communities.
With respect to land acquisition for public use the Act empowers the Minister to ‘acquire on behalf of the
State, any Provinces’ land for any public purpose for a term of years, paying such compensation or
consideration or compensation and consideration as may be agreed upon.’ This compensation will be in
addition to the land rent. The District Authority of the District where such land is situated may grant to
the Minister, on behalf of the State, a lease of such land for a term not exceeding twenty-one years. In the
case of lease hold lands compensation is to be paid when the land is to be compulsorily acquired for
public use.

Where the parties are unable to agree on the level of compensation the Act provides for a committee of
arbitration. The decision of the committee is final.

5.1.3 The Laws on Compulsory Acquisition

In addition to The Lands (Provinces) Act Cap. 103 and the State Lands Act 1991 the other relevant
national laws with respect to compulsory land acquisition, compensation and resettlement are the
following:
-       The Constitution of the Republic of the Gambia 1997
-       the Land Acquisition and Compensation Act 1991

                                                     3
These legal instruments provide compulsory acquisition in very specific circumstances. The Constitution
of the Republic of the Gambia 1997 provides for --- “The taking of possession or acquisition is necessary
in the interest of defence, public safety, public order, public morality, public health, town and country
planning or the development or utilization of property in such a manner as to promote public benefit;?

The Land Acquisition and Compensation Act 1991 provides the legal basis for the acquisition of property
by the state for public/ planning purpose. Section 3 of the Act provides that all land acquired under the
provisions of the Act shall be designated as state land and shall be administered under the provisions of
the State Lands Act 1991.

Where acquisition is to take place the Procedure consists of a survey team visiting each property to carry
out detailed survey and inspection to determine the legal boundary, owner(s) and improvements affected.
The collected data is recorded for analysis. Calculation of value for each affected property is carried out
based on the above parameters and other available best practices.

5.2       World Bank Safeguard Policy on Involuntary Resettlement

The World Bank Safeguard policy OP 4.12 explicitly requires that project affected persons (PAPs) who
are either displaced or suffer other losses (the loss of shelter, loss of assets or access to assets important to
production, the loss of income sources or means of livelihood), as a result of projects, need to be
protected against the risks of impoverishment. Livelihoods of persons affected must be preserved, but in
cases where this is inevitable, minimal displacements should occur. In instances where displacement is
unavoidable, compensation should be paid to PAPs to help them to restore their social, economic and
environmental livelihoods.

The Policy emphasizes the following principles:

         Avoiding or minimizing involuntary land acquisition and resettlement, where feasible and
          exploring all viable alternatives before resorting to involuntary resettlement.

         Where involuntary resettlement and land acquisition is unavoidable, assistance and sufficient
          resources should be provided to the displaced persons with the view to maintaining and/or
          improving their standards of living, earning capacities and production levels.
         Encouraging community participation in planning and implementing land acquisition,
          compensation and/or resettlement, and provision of assistance to affected people regardless of the
          legality of their land rights or their title to land.

5.3       Comparative Analysis of Gambian Laws with World Bank Safeguard Policy OP4.12

Although the Bank safeguards and the Gambian laws have many points in common there are, however, a
few important areas of difference. One such area is the category of PAPs that qualify for compensated.
The Gambian statutes make provision for compensation to be paid to only persons who have suffered any
loss and can produce any form of title that is legal in the form of deeds, leaseholds, or customary.

                                                       4
However the World Bank guidelines expect all forms of losses without exception to be catered for to help
the PAPs to restore their social, economic and environmental livelihoods.

Under Gambian law, it is the preserve of the minister to assess loss due to the resettlement either through
the Department of Lands& Surveys or through consultants but the World Bank OP 4.12, advocates the
involvement of the project affected persons to ensure that the project enjoys the full support of the Bank
and affected persons.

The Operational Policy advice that PAPs be assisted during their transition period in the resettlement site
and efforts made to restore their livelihoods whereas the Gambian laws are silent on that.

5.4       Guidelines of the Resettlement Policy Framework

The RPF gives responsibilities for screening to GAMWORKS and the project construction unit within the
PCU and their findings should be submitted to the regional education and local government authorities as
well as the central government authority. The Framework identified three main scenarios of land
acquisition for project development activities:

      -      Voluntary contribution of land in return for compensation;
      -      Voluntary contribution of land without seeking compensation; and
      -      Involuntary Acquisition of land.

The guiding principle for land acquisition shall be that where land is required for the subproject,
appropriate safeguards shall be observed to avoid or reduce the negative impacts of land acquisition on
the affected community members.
The responsibility of documenting all matters relating to the acquisition of land, the holdings and assets of
PAPs, the compensation and payment processes up to the level of the Project Coordination Unit is
entrusted to the environmental, social and resettlement focal point (ESRFP) which is an expanded
Environmental Focal Point referred to in ESMF with a membership consisting of the following:
           a population specialist ( legal expert on displacement of peoples and laws on land tenure)
           a rural economist,
           a sociologist.

 This body is required to work in close collaboration with the local population and organizations to ensure
that the resettlement and compensation agreements signed by PAPs are executed in a timely manner and
that the interests of the PAPs are protected.

Where disputes arise in the land acquisition process the RPF recommends the amicable resolution of these
grievances using traditional and customary avenues of conflict resolution. If all these avenues fail to
redress the grievance then the aggrieved party has the right to take the matter to the courts and in this
regard, “the Project is obliged to provide, in particular to vulnerable and disadvantaged groups, the
requisite assistance enabling them to present their case to such decision-making organs of government.?
According to the RPF the consensus view among the stakeholders is that no resettlement of populations

                                                     5
will be necessary although some insignificant loss of land may occur in some cases, notably in regions 1
and 2 and particularly in urban and peri-urban areas. With respect to these losses the RPF recommended
that appropriate measures be taken to mitigate the adverse social and economic impacts on the affected
persons and to ensure that they are not made worse off than before the project.

6.0     FINDINGS

The findings of the study are based on interviews, discussions and site visits. The list of the schools
visited is attached as Annex 2.

        6.1      Appreciation of the Local Communities for the Project

 The communities expressed very deep appreciation for the schools which are having a lot of positive
impacts on their lives. These include increased access to education particularly for the poorer and distant
communities and having children closer to home whilst going to school, an important factor in
considering girls education. The facilities also provided healthier and safer environment for learning
through the provision of safe drinking water and hygienic toilet facilities for each of the sexes.

        6.2     Land Acquisition for the Schools

In many cases, construction took place on land already owned by the school although in a few cases, land
was obtained from the community. In all cases where land was given by the community it was given
voluntarily. Besides the loss of land no major negative social and economic impacts were generated in
terms of physical relocation, loss of livelihood or loss of access to economic assets. In all the cases that
came up land was given voluntarily as way of attracting schools to the communities. There is a high
demand for education in all the places visited and a strong desire to have children go to school as close to
home as possible especially for the lower basic cycle.

The land given by the community could be community land reserved for such general purposes, as in
Tintinto village (Region 2) or it could be land belonging to the alkali or his family member as in the case
of Nioro Jattaba (Region 4) and Sare Samba (Region 6) or to individual members of the community
whose land happens to be in the area identified for the subproject as in Sare Gubu (Region 6).
An important characteristics of the individual donor whether an alkali or an ordinary citizen is that they
usually belong to the founding families /clans of the village and therefore have access to a relatively
sizeable land which is not all in use. Enough land therefore exists to give to the community for communal
purposes. As a result the land acquisition did not create any negative social impacts.

In the urban and peri-urban areas the same norms exist although increased pressures on the land could,
sometimes, result in cases that could trigger the safeguards. In addition to the communities granting land
state institutions such as Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation provide, out of the land leased
to them by the State, portions to build social amenities and development projects such as schools, markets
and cemeteries. This is the case for Brusubi Lower and Upper Basic Schools.




                                                     6
        6.3      Compliance with National Laws

Although the RPF was not complied with there were no cases of breaking Gambian laws. No recognised
negative impacts were created. In all cases relating to land acquisition there was ample consultation
among the community members and between the community and MoBSE. In most cases, in keeping with
the procedure for obtaining a Government school, the community is required to start the school on its own
first in order to assess its sustainability before Government takes it over. The issue of the land is therefore
resolved at the community level before the Government intervention. Where land is donated, it is done so
without any request for compensation, either in kind or in cash. So there was no case of compulsory
acquisition. In the discussions during the field visit, all those who gave land said they have done so
willingly for the benefit of the community and they were not seeking any compensation either in kind or
in cash.



        6.4      Compliance with World Bank Safeguard Policy OP 4.12

The infrastructural programme of the Third Education Sector Programme was the subject of a
resettlement policy framework which was prepared in 2006. The project is therefore in conformity with
the World Bank safeguard requirements OP 4.12 Resettlement Policy Framework but the subprojects
were not screened as recommended by the RPF.
However, the small size of the infrastructure works in the sites visited did not have any major negative
social and economic impacts because most of the construction took place in existing school premises or
on land provided by the community. Besides the loss of land no major negative social and economic
impacts were generated. Consequently safeguard instrument OP 4.12 was not triggered. In all the sites
visited no objections or counterclaims for the land allocated were raised.



        6.5      Disclosure and Awareness of the Safeguard Instrument

An important aspect of the RPF is the disclosure as well as the awareness of the instrument among the
stakeholders. It would appear that the RPF has not had adequate disclosure among all the stakeholders
and the general public which made it difficult for the stakeholders to assume their responsibilities fully
under the project.

        6.6      Other Findings during the Visit

       During the field visit some cases came up where unoccupied land belonging to the school was
        used for farming by some members of the local community. Such practices are based on a local
        agreement with the school administrators and they help to keep the school grounds tidy and free
        of weeds, rodents and snakes while the school is out of session during the rainy season. One such
        case relates to Tallinding Annex Upper Basic School where some women from the
        community are allowed to grow rice in the unoccupied grounds of the school compound


                                                      7
        based on a local agreement that allows them to grow rice as long as they wish with no
        intention to deprive them of their livelihoods.

        In some of these cases the communities use part of the harvest to contribute to the school feeding
        of the children when the school is back in session or, if any of the harvest is sold, they give some
        of the proceeds back to the school.

       Cases of encroachment on land already allocated to schools also came up in places such as
        Madina Kunkunding Lower Basic and in Old Yundum Lower Basic where part of the land
        belonging to the school was reallocated by the community for other uses.



7.0 CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS

Although the project did not create any negative social and economic impacts it is recommended that:

        1) Future projects fully comply with the RPF guidelines to ensure that all new subprojects sites
           are properly screened;

        2) The Ministry should formally acquire and record all land that is assigned to the
           schools before school construction. Such documents should have the signature/thumb
           print of the Alkali and three community leaders including the representative of the
           kabilo/family giving the land. Once the land has been acquired it should be clearly
           demarcated by fencing.

        3) It is further recommended that all lands belonging to schools in The Gambia should have the
           ownership status fully documented by the issuance of a certificate of ownership to help
           prevent any disputes in future, particularly in the rapidly growing peri-urban areas and
           provincial growth centres. Copies of such documents should be deposited at the school, the
           Regional Directorates and at the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education.

        4) The practice of allowing members the community to farm on the unoccupied lands of the
           school should be allowed to continue as it is beneficial to both parties. However, in the urban
           and peri-urban areas such as in Tallinding Annex the school administration should have this
           informal agreement between the women and school in writing, with an opt out clause by the
           school should they decide to expand sometime in the future and need the available land for
           another purpose.




                        __________________________________________



                                                    8
                                                   ANNEX 1A:

                                                STAFF MOBSE

QUESTIONNAIRE FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT AUDIT OF
  THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT: RESETTLEMENT
                         POLICY FRAMEWORK


Name of Official----------------------------------------------


a)       Land Acquisition & Compensation

1.       Was there any screening, before commencement, of the sub-project components to determine the
         land requirements for infrastructure construction and related services? Yes/No

2.       If yes, what was the outcome of the exercise?

3.       If No, why?


4.       Did the Sub Project components acquire any land? If yes, please specify for each SPC site
         affected the total land acquisition and the type of acquisition.


5.       Describe the ownership status of the land in question.

6.       Was there any involuntary resettlement, loss of economic assets, and/or rehabilitation of people
         involved?


7.       Were non-titled persons (tenants, lessees, strange farmers, or other third party users) present on
         the land?

8.       Did the land in question require payment of compensation? If yes, what was the number of PAPs
         and the nature of compensation?

9.       Have the PAPs been fully compensated?

10.      Where there any sensitive and endangered eco-system or habitat within 100m of the project site–
         If yes, provide description of the area.


11.      Has any land acquired by the subproject component restricted the use on adjoining land?

b)       Public Consultation Process

1.        How were the public consultations organized?

                                                          9
c)   Institutional Arrangements

1.   The RPF refers to the establishment of an expanded project siting body referred to as the
     environment, social and resettlement focal point (ESRFP), was such a body created? Yes/NO. If
     no what was the reason and if yes, what is its current membership?

d)   Monitoring

1.   Was a monitoring plan in place to monitor the implementation of the land acquisition process?

2.   The RPF gives the responsibility of monitoring to the PCU. Have any reports been prepared as
     required?

3.   The RPF calls for an annual evaluation to determine implementation of decisions particularly
     payment of compensation. Have the PAPs been fully compensated? If not why?

4.   Have independent monitors eg NGOs ever been engaged from time to time to validate
     programme implementation?


e)   Sensitisation & Training

1.   Was any Prior sensitization of the communities at the level of conception of the projects enable
     them understand and readily adhere to the Project undertaken by the Regional Environmental
     Social and Resettlement Management Focal Points?


2.   Was Training organized for the elected community and village cadres to enable them better
     participate in screening of the projects?




                                               10
                                             ANNEX 1B:

        THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT AUDIT OF THE
     IMPLEMENTATION OF THE THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT: RESETTLEMENT
                         POLICY FRAMEWORK


               THEMES FOR FOCUS GROUP & INDIVIDUAL & DICUSSIONS

Land Acquisition

1.     Did the Sub Project components acquire any land in the community for the school? If yes , please
       specify the area affected and the total land acquisition


2.     What was the land being used for before acquisition?

3.     Has the acquisition restricted the use on adjoining land?

Land Ownership

1.     Who owned the land in question?

2.     Were non-titled persons present on the land?


3.     Was there any involuntary resettlement, loss of economic assets, and/or rehabilitation of people
       as a result of the acquisition?

Compensation


1.     How was the land acquired?

2.     Was any compensation paid for the land acquired? If yes, describe the nature and size of this
       compensation?

3.     Do you consider this compensation to be fair and adequate?


       General Remarks




                                                   11
                                           ANNEX 2:

                              LIST OF PERSONS CONTACTED

1)      Tintoto Lower Basic

               Mr. Sambou Sowe- Alkali of TintintoVillage
               Mr. Omar Bah- Community Elder
               Mr. Alasan Bah- Community Elder
2)      Nioro Jattaba Upper Basic

               Alhaji Ebrima BAH – Alkali of Nioro Jattaba(owner of the land)
               Mr. Alieu Bah- Community Elder

               Mr. Cherno M. Bah- Youth Leader

               Mr. Cherno Sillah- Site Manager for the Contractor

3)      Sare Samba Lower Basic

               Mr. Salif Ceesay- Youth Leader and Son of the Alkali of the village
               Mr. Demba Ceesay- Community Elder (Owner of the land)
               Mr. Tijan Bojang- Snr. Teacher Sare Samba Lower BASIC School

4)      Choya Early Childhood Development School

               Mr. Sorie jamanka- Alkali Choya Village (Owner of the land)
               Mr. Toumani Jamanka- Imam
               Mr. Demba Bah- Community Elder
               Mr. Samba Bah- Community Elder
               Mr. Samba Yeli Baldeh- Community Elder

     5) Sare Gubu Lower Basic School

               Mr. Yorro Barry- Community Elder (owner of the land)
               Mr. Dawda Bah- Community Elder
               Mrs. Ida Kebbeh- Head Teacher

     6) Sare Jawbeh Lower Basic School

               Mr. Sidiya Baldeh-Alkali Sare Jawbeh Village
               Mr.Amadou Jallow- Head Teacher Srae Jawbeh Lower Basic


                                               12
7) Lebba Lower Basic

          Mr. Samba Ceesay Deputy Head Teacher
          Mr. Baboucar MBYE – Alkali of the village ( Owner of the land)
          Hassum Ceesay- Alkai Njama Hainou man village and Member of Scholl committee
          Mr. Mat Ceesay- Community Elder- Hainuman Village

8) Conteh Kunda Nijji Lower Basic

          Mr. Salifu Jallow- Head Teacher
          Mr. Musa\Nyimanding Conteh-Community Elder ( Owner Of the Land)
9) Gunjur Madina Kunkunding Lower Basic

          Mrs. Mariam Jatta- Head Teacher
          Mr. Ousman Jammeh- Contract Teacher
          Mr. Fa Sulayman Toure- Alkali of Gunjur
          Mr. Hassan Jatta- Community Elder
          Mr. Seku Jatta- Community Elder


10) Tallinding Upper Basic School

          Mrs Fatoumatta K. Sise, Principal
          Mrs. Binta Jagne, Vice Principal
          Mrs. Niorta Toure, Rice farmer
          Mrs. Nato Yarbo, Rice Farmer
          Mrs. Alamuta Camara, Rice Farmer
          Mrs. Kunuba Jaiteh, Rice Farmer
          Mr. Pa Sorie Sanneh, Chairman of the School Management Committee
          Mr. Gibril Badgie, Deputy Alkali, Tallinding Sicap
          Alhaji Janko Sonko, Deputy Alkali, Talinding Madina
          Mr. Ebima Badgie, Youth Leader




                                             13
ANNEX 3
                              Photo Gallery of Some of the Sites Visited




Mr. Yoro Barry first from the left gave part of his land for staff quarters at Sare Gubu Lower Basic.
The land behind them also belongs to Mr. Barry.




Meeting with community leaders at Choya with the Construction Monitor Region 6
third from the left

                                                     14
Tallinding elders with the Principal and the Vice Principal Tallinding Upper Basic




                                            15
                                            ANNEX 4:

                                        BIBLIOGRAPHY


 1.    Third Education Project Environmental And Social Management Framework, MoBSEE March
                                                     2006

2.    The World Bank Operational Manuel Bank Procedures Environmental Assessment BP 4.01
      January 1999-Revised in April 2013
3.    The World Bank Operational Manuel Bank Procedures Environmental Assessment BP 4.01
      Annex A January 1999 -Revised February 2011
4.    Health care waste management plan 2005-2010, The Gambia
5.    National Environment Management ACT 1994, The Gambia
6.    Environmental Impact Assessment Procedures, Banjul, July 1999 The Gambia
7.    Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines, March 1990, The Gambia
8.    State of the Environment – Report – National Environment Agency, Banjul February2010.
9.    World Bank Supervision Mission Aide Memoire Ida/Gpe Pre-Appraisal Mission, Banjul,
10.   Project Appraisal Document For A Proposed Catalytic Fund Grant In The Amount Of Us$ 28.0
      Million To The Republic Of The Gambia For A Mach 23rd - April 5th 2013 Education For All –
      Fast Track Initiative Program- July 16, 2009
11.   The Gambia Education Sector Review Aide memoire World Bank June 11-22 2012
12.   Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Grant to the Republic of The Gambia for the Third
      Education Sector Project in the amount of SDR 3.5 Million in Pilot CRW Resources (Us$ 5.5
      Million Equivalent)to the Republic of The Gambia April 16, 2010
13.   Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in The Amount of SDR 5.5 Million (Us$ 8
      Million Equivalent)to the Government of The Gambia for a Third Education Project-Phase II
      Project 30 May 2006
14.   The International Finance Corporation December 1998 Procedure for Environmental and Social
      Review of Projects
15.   Constitution of the Republic of the Gambia, 1997

16.   Lands (Provinces) Act CAP103

17.   Land Acquisition and Compensation Act, 1991

18.   State Lands Act,1991


                                                16
Annex 7


 TERMS OF THE REFERENCE FOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL AUDIT OF THE
 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT and EFA- FTI CATALYTIC
                                FUND


    1. BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION

The Government of The Gambia, through the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education (MOBSE), has
been implementing the third phase of its education program as well as the EFA FTI Catalytic Fund aimed
at improving educational standards throughout the country.

The Gambia’s education system has gone through various mutations over the years in response to
changing conditions and requirements of its population as well as the international context. In this regard
and in order to render the policy functional, a strategic plan was developed in order to:
      Provide access to and high quality education for all,
      Provide the appropriate services,
      Ensure gender equity in education,
      Provide life skills and
      Promote the culture of life-long learning.


2. OBJECTIVES OF THE TERMS OF REFERENCE

These Terms of Reference (ToR) aim at selecting a consultant for the implementation of an
environmental and social audit (ESA) of the activities of the two ongoing projects. The objective of the
ESA is to assess and monitor compliance and environmental and social performance of the project.
The audit will enable to:


  and safeguards policies and procedures of the World Bank;
                                              -compliance of said safeguard instruments;

                                 cial performance of compensatory/mitigation measures
  recommended by different studies. That is, the Environmental and Social
 Management Framework (ESMF) and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), that have
 been prepared to guide the implementation of the projects on environmental on safeguards
 grounds.

The purpose of the social audit is to assess and monitor the compliance of projects with the
provisions contained in the RPF. The projects supported: : (i) Construction/rehabilitation in existing
schools premises, rehabilitation of classrooms to become elearning centers, (ii) Classrooms
construction/rehabilitation on new sites and teacher quarters. In the former scenario, cases of involuntary
resettlement seem rather unlikely. In the latter, there may be potential for involuntary resettlement, if its
proven that the construction site is not a communal land and that there is clear evidence that the project
activities may results in loss of assets, economic activities and/or livelihoods on the part of affected
people in the project intervention areas/zones. All of this will require further social assessment on
construction activities of that nature, followed adequate compensation measures, in accordance with the

                                                    17
provisions and guidelines of the RPF. The audit will enable to:


the laws and regulations in force in the country and in accordance with the Resettlement Policy
Framework. The consultant will work in accordance with Policy 4.12 of the Bank's Involuntary
Resettlement of Populations;

(RAP) and the cause of non-compliance;
                    hat there are no complaints or unresolved disputes pending;

disclosure of information and consensus with agreed consultations proceedings;
                  ere are no complaints or potential conflicts pending and where they exist, evaluate the
resolution mechanism set up and schedule final resolution;

specifies the different scenarios to assist the Project Affected Persons (PAPs) in their efforts to improve
their conditions.

4. SCOPE OF THE CONSULTANT SERVICES

The services will mainly include:
• A description of the initial state;
• A very brief summary of the main activities of the projects (IDA Third Education Sector Program and
EFA FTI CF);
• The presentation of audit standards;
• The data collection;
• The data analysis;
• The development of two separate reports for each task, namely a report on the environmental audit and
another on social audit.

4.1 Description of the initial state

The consultant will strive to present a brief review of the initial state of the main sites affected by the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of school infrastructure funded by IDA and EFA-FTI. To this end, the
consultant will use the provisions of existing safeguard instruments, in this case the ESMF and RPF,
complemented by the Project Implementation Manuel (PIM).

4.2 Summary of project activities

The consultant will present the project activities according to the main implementation phases of the
works, with environmental and social impacts and to this end, he (s) / her (s) may refer to various project
performance reports and consider interviews with different stakeholders and witnesses of the project
implementation (member/staff of the PCU, contractors, the beneficiaries and the PAPs). References of
people met with the exact dates and the data must constitute annexes to the report.

4.3 Repository of the Environmental and Audit

The repository of the ESA is the basis of analysis criteria for drawing conclusions from the environmental
and social audit.

Taking into account the context of funding and implementation of the projects, the repository of the audit
will result from:

                                                   18
- Reports of Studies of Social and Environmental Impact (This is the ESMF, CPR, site-specific ESIA,
ESMP and/or RAP);
- Monitoring reports by PCU etc.
- Advice and recommendations of the Ministry in charge of environment;
- Guidelines of OP 4.12 and OP 4.01of the World Bank guidelines;

4.4 Data collection

Data collection will allow the consultant to prepare the evidence to support the environmental and social
audit, it will be done through:

- A form/questionnaire for data collection;
- Interviews with people involved in the projects;
-Interviews with individuals and beneficiaries of compensation and evaluation of the consultation process
with the PAP;
- Field visits and observations;
- Measures or assessments of various environmental and social impacts of the projects;
- The various reports of incidents or complaints of the people;
- Mechanisms for handling complaints.

In general, the consultant will collect data or information about the projects area:
- The biophysical/ambient environment
- The socio-economic situation of affected populations;
- The various cultural sites, cultural heritage, historical sites etc.;
- Compensation Measures, training
- Communication and information on the progress of the projects

4.5 Analysis of data

The data collected will be analyzed by the use of appropriate tools to highlight among other aspects:
- The environmental and social compliance with the provisions of the ESMF and RPF;
- The non-compliances concerning the implementation of the ESMF and RPF:
o Opinions and recommendations of the ministry responsible for the environment; and
o Guidelines / procedures of the World Bank;

4.6 Conclusions of the Environmental and Social Audit

The findings of the Environmental and Social Audit include:
• A summary of compliance;
• A summary of non-compliance;
• A description of measures to remedy or mitigate the effects of non-compliance;
•An assessment of the costs of implementation of remedial measures with a timetable for implementation;
• A monitoring plan for repairs/ corrective actions/measures;
• Recommendations for measuring social impact mitigations, with detailed timeline with the roles and
responsibilities of stakeholders.

The reports will be prepared in accordance with various phases of the audit and shall contain a summary
of less than ten pages.

5. ORGANISATION OF THE STUDY


                                                     19
5.1. Sponsor and monitoring

The sponsor of the Environmental and Social Audit is the Project Coordination Unit which is
coordinating the IDA and EFA-FTI projects. The various tasks of the ESA of the Audit will be monitored
and verified by the PCU, NEA. The NEA will comment on all reports of a temporary nature and guide the
implementation of the Environmental and Social Audit. The audit report is then submitted to the Bank for
review, comments and approval.

5.2 Duration and Reports
The overall duration of the audit should not exceed six (6) weeks
The consultant will provide the following reports for each task:

- Report preparation of the audit including:
o The description of the initial state,
o The recall of project activities,
o The reference of the audit;

- Report data collection in five copies;
- The data analysis and the findings of the audit in 3-4 copies
- The summary of the audit report by 10 + 5 CD.

The environmental audit report will be written in English.

6. OBLIGATIONS OF PROMOTER
In order to ensure successful completion of this audit, the PCU shall make available to the Consultant
plans and technical studies and all available information relating to the EFA-FTI and IDA project
activities.

7. OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONSULTANT
As part of the implementation of this audit, the Consultant will be required to comply with
confidentiality. They should do so, both during and after the mission it. Therefore, all information and
documents made available should be considered confidential.

8. COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT TEAM
Achieving this environmental audit must be made by a team of a social specialist and a social specialist,
both of whom should be familiar with environmental audits approach and procedures, with recognized
experience in carrying out similar work in The Gambia.

6. OBLIGATIONS OF PROMOTER
In order to ensure successful completion of this audit, the Promoter shall make available to the Consultant
plans and technical studies and all available information relating to the projects.

7. OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONSULTANT
As part of the implementation of this audit, the Consultant will be required to comply with
confidentiality. Therefore, all information and documents made available should be considered
confidential.

8. COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT TEAM
Achieving this environmental audit must, ideally, be made by a team of an environmental specialist and a
social specialist, familiar with the approach, guidelines and procedures of environmental and social
auditing, and with experience in carrying out similar work in the Gambia.

                                                     20
9. CONTENT OF THE REPORT
The content of the report should include the following elements:

- The executive summary of the audit, in English;
- Introduction;
- The description of the site (environmental and historical context);
- The environmental action plan, including the plan of environmental management, and the plan of
emergency measures.
- The conclusions and recommendations;
- Recommendations for additional studies;
- Annexes:
o Terms of reference of the audit,
o List of persons interviewed/met,
o Names of the persons who carried out the audit;
o questionnaires for surveys and semi-structured interviews,
o Minutes of consultation meetings held with local communities and other stakeholders..
o Site location, drawings and photographs,
o Any other relevant information

10. DURATION OF THE ASSIGNMENT
The duration of the audit including field visits shall not exceed six weeks of service + 3-4 days of revision
and finalization of report after validation workshop with stakeholders.




                                                    21
