Report No. 145a-CD                                                               FILE  COPY
Chad
Appraisal of
Sategui1)eressia Irrigation Project
March 4, 1974
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept respon-
sibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$ 1               CFAF 260.0
CFAF 100           US$  0.38
One ADF Unit
of Account  -      CFAF 256
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare   =      2.47 Acres
1 Kilometer =      0.62 Miles
1 Ton       =      2,204 Pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADF    -       African Development Fund
MEAE   -       Ministere d'Etat Charge de l'Agriculture et de 1'Elevage
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
ONDR   -       Office National pour le D6velcppement Rural
National Office for Rural Development
MTPAT  -       Ministere des Travaux Publics et de l'Amenagement du Territoire
Ministry for Public Works and Land Development
FDAR   -       Fond d'Action et de Developpement Rural
Fund for Action and Rural Development
GR     -       Direction du Genie Rural et de l'Hydraulique Agricole
Rural Engineering Directorate under MTPAT
SEMALK -       Secteur Experimental de Modernisation Agricole de Lai-Kelo
Agricultural Development Agency of Lai-Kelo Area
Sms    -       Secteur Medico-Sanitaire
Health Agency
BDT    -       Banque de Developpement du Tchad
Development Bank of Chad
OMVSD  -       Office de Mise en Valeur de Sategui-Deressia
Sategui-Deressia Project Authority
IITA   -       Institut International d'Agriculture Tropicale
International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
IRAT   -       Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
Research Institute for Tropical Agriculture
GOVERNMENT OF CHAD
FISCAL rEAR
January 1 - December 31



SATEGtTT-DERFSSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
S1M4ARY kNTD CONCLTJSIONS  .....        ....................   i-iii
I.         INTRODUCTION  ........         ............................       1
II.        BACKGROUND  .........         .............................       1
General  ........        ............................       1
III.       THE PROJECT AREA  ................................                3
General. ........        ............................       3
Climate  ........        ............................       3
Soils ........,.........................                   4
Hydrology ...............................                   4
Irrigation Facilities.                                      4
Population.                                                 4
Farming Systems and Land Tenure ............                4
Agricultural Innuts and Credit.                            5
Research ........ . .......   5
Education and Health.                                      5
Transoortation and Marketing.                              6
IV.  THE PROJECT.                                                            6
Proiect Description.                                        6
Project Works.                                              7
Second-stage Studies.                                       8
Water Sunrly, Demand and Quality.                           8
Engineering Desiqn and Construction Schedule.               8
Health and Education  .....          ..................     9
V.         COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING  .....           ...............    10
Cost Estimates   ......        .......................     10
Financing  ..................................             11
Relending Terms .13
Recovery of Costs .13
Procurement ................................               14
Disbursements .14
Accounts and Audits .14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed of
Messrs. A.A. Meimaris, M.T. Burger, J.G. Leblanc (IDA) and W.F. Bright
(Consultant).



Table of Contents (Corntinued)
Page No.
VI.      ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ................... ..      14
Implementation of Project Works  ...........      14
Management of Project  ................ .....     15
Land Tenure Provision  .....................      15
Staffing Requirements  .....................      15
Agricultural Research  .................... a     16
Agricultural Inputs and Credit  ............      16
Operation and Maintenance  ............ .....     17
VII.     PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME    17
Production  .....     ...........................  17
Market  and  Prices    .........................  17
Farmers' Benefits  ... ................ . .......  18
VIII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION       .....................  19
IX.      AGREEMENTS REACIED AND RECOMMENDATIONS     .........    21
ANNEXES
1.  Climatological Data
2.  Soils
3.  Project Works
4.  Second-stage Studies
5.  Water Supply, Demand and Quality
6.  Cost Estimates
7.  Schedule of Project Expenditures and Disbursements
8.  List of Equipment
9.  Terms of Reference for Consultants
10. Management Services Expenditures
11. Agricultural Supporting Services
12. Operation and Maintenance Cost
13. Present and Projected Crop Production
14. Marketing and Prices
15. Financial Analysis of the Project Authority
16. Financial Analysis at Farm Level
17. Economic Analysis
CHARTS AND MAPS
1.  Construction Schedule - World Bank 7422
2.  Location Map          - IBRD 10338
3.  Project Map           - IBRD 10339



CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        A succession of three years of drought coupled with a major rebel-
lion in the north of the country have substantially curtailed in recent years
returns from cotton and livestock, the mainstays of Chad's rural economy.
Thus despite the rise in current prices for these commodities public finances
have substantially deteriorated, and.development has stagnated.
ii.       Presently, the security situation has improved and measures are
under study by Government for reforms in economic management and development
strategies. Emphasis on the livestock industry is to be increased as sharp
rises in demand and prices appear to offer greater economic returns than in
the past. Emphasis is also placed on cotton and transportation investments.
iii.      The large irrigation potential of the southern part of the country,
so far unutilized, has been investigated under the stimulus of recent drought-
conditions and Government gives high priority to two projects for which IDA
assistance has been requested. The first, still under study, aims at the de-
velopment of polders in Lake Chad and in particular at an initial phase in-
volving the development of 3,000 ha for the production of cotton and wheat.
This project has potential for expansion to some 60,000 ha, and may be
appraised in 1975.
iv.       The second project, which is the subject of this report involves
the development of about 11,000 ha of land for improved rice cultivation in
the Sategui-Deressia plain along the Logone River. It is a labor intensive
project which would benefit about 2,400 farm families now living at near sub-
sistence level. It fits in well with Government programs to increase rice
production to meet rising domestic demand, and to introduce badly needed
crop diversification.
v.        The Sategui-Deressia project would be the first Bank Group operation
to promote irrigated agriculture in Chad. Since 1968, the Bank Group has made
five IDA credits, one for highway maintenance, two for education, one for
livestock, and one for drought relief, totalling US$13.2 million (including
US$0.9 million supplementary financing approved in 1973 for the education
projects), out of which US$4.6 million have been disbursed so far (as of
January 31, 1974). After substantial delays because of lack of counterpart
funds, administrative problems and cost overruns, all projects are underway
and are expected to be completed satisfactorily.
vi.       Rice is grown under traditional methods, rainfed or inundated, over
55,000 ha in the Logone Valley where suitable soil and climatic conditions
prevail.  Because of lack of control works to regulate flood waters, little



- ii -
use is made of the large available water resources and yields and productivity
remain very low. Small existing projects in the valley have demonstrated that
high yields of rice can be achieved, given water control, modern cultivation
methods and inputs.
vii.      The proposed project would include the construction of polders ex-
tending to 4,000 ha in which the time and depth of flooding would be control-
led, feeder roads, and a rice mill and storage facilities. Another 7,000 ha
would benefit from earlier flooding which would permit timely planting and
thus better yields. The project would also include agricultural extension,
training, research, seed multiplication and credit services and the creation
of the Office de Mise en Valeur de Sategui Deressia (OMVSD). In addition, in
view of the urgent need to further expand irrigated rice production, the
project would finance a feasibility study for a second-stage development of
about 5,000 ha.
viii.     Total project costs, net of import duties and taxes, are estimated
at US$12.0 million, including contingencies totalling US$2.8 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$7.4 million, or 62%. Construction would be
completed in three years but financing would continue for an additional three
years to bring the project to maturity and to the stage where it would be
financially self-supporting. All project costs would be recovered through
imposition of a levy on polder area farmers, equal to about 10% of gross
production, and through benefits generated from OMVSD rice milling operations.
ix.       The proposed IDA credit of US$7.5 million would finance 63% of
pwroject costs and would cover total costs of civil works, for construction of
the irrigation and drainage system, roads and rehabilitation of the agricul-
tural station to be tendered under international competitive bidding (US$6.5
million), management consultants (US$0.8 million), and 50% of the second
stage studies (US$0.2 million). The African Development Fund (ADF) loan of
4 million units of account 1/ or approximately US$3.9 million would finance
32% of project costs and would cover total costs of buildings, equipment,
management services and engineering consultants. These items would be pro-
cured under ADF regulations. Remaining local costs of US$0.6 million, or 5%
of project costs, for credit and working capital requirements, would be pro-
vided by Government initially through the Development Bank of Chad (BDT).
1/   As defined in the Articles of Agreement of ADF. One unit of account has
a value of 0.81851265 gramme of fine gold (Article 1). To determine the
value of any currency in terms of the unit of account, such valuation is
made by ADF after consultation with the International Monetary Fund
(Article 12 of ADF Articles of Agreement). One unit of accounts equals
about CFAF 256.



- iii -
x.        The IDA Credit and the ADF Loan would be onlent by Government to
OMVSD which would repay annually CFAF 90 million (US$0.35 million) over 50
years including 6 years of grace. This is equivalent to full debt repayment
at 1.4% interest. These terms are justified as part of the capital invest-
ment will benefit subsequent expansion of the project; the annual repayment
would absorb 90% of OMVSD annual net revenues, and any increase in farmers'
charges or ex-mill rice prices would act as a major disincentive to increase
rice production and consumption. BDT funds would be made available to OMVSD
at 5-1/2% per annum and would be progressively replaced by OMVSD self-generat-
ed funds over a ten-year period. Onlending to farmers for short- and medium-
term credit would be at the same interest rate.
xi.       Responsibility for implementation of project works and management
would be entrusted to an autonomous project authority (OMVSD) to be established
under the general supervision of the Ministere des Travaux Publics et de
l'Amenagement du Territoire (MTPAT). OMVSD would be assisted by engineering
and management consultants.
xii.      The major benefit of the project would be the annual incremental
production of 8.000 tons of rice (about half of future estimated incremental
requirements).  The project would nearly double the agricultural incomes
of some 2,400 farm families or about 11,500 persons in the project area.  The
average per capita net income would rise from US$52 to US$73 outside of the
polders and US$108 in the polder area. Consequently, the project would bridge
the income gap between this particularly poor segment of the population and
Chad's average GNP per capita of US$80 in 1971. If successful, the project
is capable of expansion to other areas of the Logone Valley. Other important
benefits include training, institution building and the demonstration effects
of the project.
xiii.     The internal economic return from investment in the project is 13%.
This return reflects conservative yield forecasts, the high construction costs
inevitable in such an isolated country, and the disproportionately high manage-
ment costs which are a necessary feature of this first-phase project. Further
phases would have higher returns.
xiv.      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$7.5 million. The borrower would be the Government of Chad.






CIAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Chad has requested IDA and ADF assistance in
financing the Sategui-Deressia Irrigation Project. Up to now the Bank Group
has not financed irrigated agriculture in Chad. Previous Bank Group lending
since FY 1968, all IDA credits, has been for highway maintenance (one project),
education (two projects), livestock (one project), and drought relief (one
project). These credits total US$13.2 million of which US$4.6 million 1/ has
been disbursed so far. With the exception of the highway project, which is
nearing completion and the Drought Relief Project which has just started,
project implementation is substantially behind schedule. This is due to a
number of reasons, not least Government's inability to finance its contribu-
tion to project costs (para 2.03). However, the projects are now underway
and it is expected that they will be completed satisfactorily.
1.02      The project is part of Government's program to increase rice pro-
duction to meet rising demand in urban domestic markets. Rice production
ranks third in agricultural sector priorities, coming after livestock and
cotton. Further, justifications for financing this project are the receptive-
ness of project area farmers to innovations, which is demonstrated by good
farming standards and the very rapid development of ox-drawn cultivation,
the suitability of the project area for irrigated rice which is already grown
extensively in the area, and the opportunity afforded by the project of im-
proving Government institutions in the agricultural sector.
1.03      The project was identified in 1966-67 by an IBRD mission, and fol-
lowing an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission, was prepared to feasibility
standards by Carlo Lotti Engineers Co. (Italy) under UNDP financing. It
was appraised in November 1972 by an IDA mission comprising Messrs.
A. Meimaris, M. Burer, J. Leblanc (IDA) and W.F. Bright (consultant) and
updated in January 1974.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      General.  Chad occupies an area of 1.3 million km2 in Central Africa.
The northern 80% of the country, comprising desert and dry grass lands, has a
population of about 2 million, mostly semi-nomadic livestock herders. The
southern 20% of the country bordering the Logone and Chari rivers is less
arid and has a population of some 1.7 million, mostly subsistence and cotton
1/   As of January 31, 1974.



- 2 -
farmers. The northern part of the country is less developed than the south
and was the scene of a rebellion that broke out in 1968. This rebellion has
been controlled, but large areas are still unsafe, and it may take years for
Government to pacify and integrate fully these traditionally independent
people.
2.02      Between 1968 and 1971, largely as a result of cotton and meat price
increases, GDP rose from CFAF 59.7 billion to CFAF 79.8 billion equivalent
and the annual growth rate rose to about 10.2% in current prices. However,
over the decade of the sixties, Chad's economy grew by only 5% in current
prices and 2% in real terms. GNP per capita in 1971 was estimated at US$84.
However, since 1971 GDP has probably declined in real terms because severe
droughts over three successive years have caused substantial declines in
agricultural production. The country's land-locked and isolated location,
high transport costs, undeveloped infrastructure, lack of natural resources,
and harsh climate are serious obstacles to economic development.
2.03      So far development programs mostly financed with external aid have
concentrated on cotton and livestock, but progress has been slow. Government
is unable to finance development from its own resources as since independence
its annual budgets have been in deficit. By the end of 1972 cumulative budg-
etary deficits amounted to CFAF 4 billion.  French budgetary subsidies have
in the past covered most of capital expenditures and part of recurrent expendi-
ture, including debt service payments. Prospects for improving the budgetary
position are poor as Government revenues, mostly from cotton and livestock,
cannot be increased significantly, especially following the recent drought and
therefore Chad must continue to rely on external aid to finance its develop-
ment effort.
2.04      Although agriculture is the most important sector of the economy
accounting for 55% of GDP in 1971, rural incomes are very low; most are
below US$40 per capita. The three main products are millet 1/, cotton, and
livestock.  After reaching record levels in 1968/69, crop and livestock
production has declined sharply because of drought.  While millet is essen-
tially a subsistence crop, cotton is Chad's most important cash crop. In
1971 cotton accounted for about 14% of monetized GDP, 67% of exports, and
40% of the arable land in the main agricultural area south of the Chari river.
Livestock accounts for about 16% of GDP and livestock and meat sales abroad
are about 30% of total exports. Export prices for animals and meat have
risen sharply since 1969 largely because of increased prices obtained from
Nigeria.
2.05      From 1958 until recently, cotton received top development priority.
Government, however, now gives top priority to livestock development because
of the rapidly rising demand for meat and the resulting price increases, and
also to assist the northern population. Government's livestock development
1/  The term millet is used to cover both millet and sorghum.



plans are being supported already by IDA through the livestock project referred
to in para 1.01, and for which a second phase has been prepared. FED is conti-
nuing to finance a cotton productivity program and the Bank Group has been
requested to finance a feeder road project in the cotton growing area which
was appraised in November 1973.
2.06      Besides cotton and livestock, Government priorities are much less
clear. Irrigation, however, is being given very high priority as it provides
the surest permanent means of combating the effects of frequent droughts.
Thus, IDA's involvement in the Sategui-Deressia Project, would help to assure
the optimum use of one of Chad's most scarce resources.
2.07      Several ministries deal with agricultural development.  The Minis-
tere d'Etat Charge de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage (MEAE) is generally respon-
sible for rainfed agriculture and livest:ock and acts mainly through the
Office National pour le Developpement Rural (ONDR) which provides extension
services and supplies farm inputs. The Ministere de Travaux Publics et de
l'Amenagement du Territoire (MTPAT) has responsibility for specific agricul-
tural projects including those involving irrigation. KrPAT deals also with
grain marketing through its Fond d'Action et de Developpement Rural (FDAR).
The Direction du Genie Rural (GR), dealing with water supply, is under the
direction of MTPAT. As a general characteristic, all agricultural services
are hampered by budget constraints and the lack of capable and well-trained
management.
III. THE PROJECT ARFA
3.01      General.  The project is located on the Sategui-Deressia plain, on
the east bank of the Logone River and almost in the center of the southern
cotton growing area. The plain is usually flooded each year, allowing the
cultivation of a single wet-season rice crop. Non-inundated areas are used
for cattle grazing, and vegetables are grown around the villages which are
located on higher ground. Fishing in the Logone and in the flooded areas
provides additional income to farmers. Administratively, the project area
is in the Prefecture of Tandjile.
3.02      Climate.  There are two distinct seasons:  the wet season lasts
from late May to early October, and the rest of the year is dry. Annual
rainfall is about 1,080 tmn, but distribution is erratic. Average monthly
temperatures range from 25°C in December to 31°C in April; daily variations
are high, especially during the winter months. Average monthly relative
humidity is 59%, with a low of 31% in February and a high of 80% in August.
Climatological data are given in Annex 1.
3.03      Soils.  A semi-detailed land classification based on the physical
properties of the soils, with special emphasis on their suitability for rice,
shows that about 90% of the soils of the project area are suitable for rice



- 4 -
growing.  Generally, upper soil layers have a coarse structure with small
percentage3 of clay and overlie clayey subsoils. Permeability decreases
with depth and no salinity or alkalinity hazard has been found.  Organic
matter content is negligible, and nitrogen and phosphorus fertilization is
expected to have a beneficial effect on rice yields. Details are in Annex 2.
3.04      Hydrology.  The project area is normally flooded annually by the
Logone River. As the river rises, water first enters the plain through a
series of culverts under the Lai-Bongor road, at this time low-lying areas
are already flooded by the early rains. The main flood occurs when the river
overflows the road, between the last week in August and mid-September, and
normally the flood recedes by mid-November.  On an interannual basis, how-
ever, the extent of flooding, its onset, and its duration, can vary greatly;
thus on three occasions in the last 20 years the river has not overflowed its
banks. To the north, a natural channel evacuates excess water from the plain
into the Ba-Illi depression and drains the plain when the flood recedes.
3.05      Irrigation Facilities.  With the exception of the culverts under
the Lai-Bongor road and some associated short lengths of hand-dug channels,
there are no irrigation facilities in the plain. Topography favors the in-
undation of large parts of the area, but lack of water control and the con-
sequent irregular flooding is a severe constraint on rice yields.
3.06      At the Boumo agricultural station, a 100 ha polder is supplied by
an intake canal which taps the river during the flood season. A control
structure admits irrigation water, and the area is flooded by a network of
canals which also are used for drainage. The structures are poorly designed,
in disrepair and extensive remodelling is needed.
3.07      Population.  In 1970, the population of the plain was estimated at
about 9,300 persons of whom about 50% were economically active. Population
is believed to be growing at the national rate of 2%, and is comprised mainly
of people of the N'Gabri Tribe (70%). An average family has 4.8 persons, and
the present 1,900 families are expected to increase to 2,400 by the time the
project reaches full development. Rice, cultivation of which started in the
early 1940s, is the principal subsistence crop; fishing is also very import-
ant for people living along the river. In general the population lives at
close to subsistence level but is hardworking and receptive to innovations
(para. 1.02).
3.08      Farm Systems and Land Tenure.  Farming systems do not vary much,
and cropping possibilities are limited by the annually recurring floods and
the subsequent six-month dry season. During the wet season, flooded rice
cultivation is practiced, but after harvest the land lies fallow till the
next year. Soil preparation for the rice crop is almost entirely performed
by ox-drawn implements. This is in contrast with seeding, weeding, harvest-
ing, threshing and pounding the paddy to hull it, which are done manually.
Women participate intensively in most of the farming activities, particularly
in weeding, harvesting and hand-pounding. The latter activity is strictly a
female occupation.



-5-
3.09      Allocation and use of land are based on tribal custom and the right
to cultivate a piece of land is extended to each family member reaching the
age of 18. The area allocated is as large as the person is physically able
to deal with: on average this is about 1.5 ha. The area's exploitation units
are family farms comprising the land allocated to members of the same family
living under the same roof; consequently, farms are relatively large. The
average size is 4.5 ha; and about 75% of all farms, representing 80% of the
cropped area, falls in the range of 2-10 ha. The traditional land chief is
the dominant element in the allocation of tribal land, though the village
chief is the administrative head of the village. After 10 years of contin-
uous cultivation, land is abandoned by the user and automatically reverts to
the village; it is then reallocated following a period of fallow. This is
also the case with land that cannot be cultivated due to illness or death of
the user. Land tenure is thus very flexible. No difficulties are expected
in the use of land for project purposes (para. 6.03).
3.10      Agricultural Inputs and Credit.  Fertilizer use in 1972 amounted
to 7,500 kg for the whole project area, representing a fertilized rice area
of about 100 ha. Urea is the main fertilizer, and the subsidized price to
farmers, on the basis of January 1974 world market prices, is CFAF 3,425 per
100 kg, equivalent to US$29 per 100 kg of nitrogen. All fertilizers in Chad
are subsidized with Government meeting 50% of their cost through a FED finan-
ced program. Government plans to reduce the level of subsidy to 20% by 1977.
No plant protection chemicals are used. There is no effective official source
of agricultural credit for the small farmers of the project area and saving
is the normal means of obtaining the means to buy items such as draft animals,
agricultural implements and carts, though friends and relatives often help
finance such expenditures.
3.11      Research.  From 1950 to 1960, the Boumo agricultural station was
managed and financed by the French and, in addition to fertilizer and pest
control trials, rice breeding was also conducted. After independence, from
1960 to 1964 and under the management of Secteur Experimental de Modernisa-
tion Agricole de Lai-Kelo (SEMALK), the station's annual budget was severely
cut and work restricted to seed multiplication. Since 1964, the flow of funds
has virtually ceased, and with this the maintenance of structures and equip-
ment; currently only about 20 ha remain in cultivation.
3.12      Education and Health.  Statistics are not available of school en-
rollment in the project area. However, with a secondary school at Lai, and
a number of primary schools in the project area, it would appear that educa-
tional opportunities are about the average for urban centers and settled
areas of the south where some 33% of the 5-10 year age group are enrolled
in primary schools and about 2% in secondary schools. Primary schools, how-
ever, are generally under-equipped and poorly staffed and a great deal of
foreign, mainly French, assistance is concentrated in the secondary schools.
3.13      The health situation is generally poor with malaria, amoebic dysen-
tery, bilharzia and other parasitic diseases being endemic. The project area
lies within the Secteur Medico-Sanitaire (SMS) of Moundou which is staffed by



- 6 -
three medical doctors. The Moundou SMS comprises the prefectures of Eastern
Logone, Western Logone and Tandjile. The nearest hospital is at Moundou
(164 km from Lai); it has 200 beds and is reasonably staffed and equipped.
3.14      SMS operates both mobile units and medical centers.  The mobile
units' object:'ve is the control of endemic diseases through campaigns of
protective innoculations.  77he          cer-ters are open to those who wish
medical consultation and treatment. Six centers are simple dispensaries, and
another two at Lai and Kelo have beds. The centers are staffed by male nurses
who are supervised three to five times a year by the SMS doctors. Generally,
the centers' are ill-equipped and poorly stocked with drugs. The Lai center
is about 20 km from the center of the project area. Health services in the
project area are about average for the south of the country but obviously not
as good as in urban centers. In 1970, and in Chad as a whole, 1.4 million
people were examined in mobile clinics and 600,000 consultations were held.
3.15      Transportation and Marketing.  Lai is connected to N'Djamena by
the main road, N'Djamena-Bongor (250 km), paved up to Guelendeng, and an
earth road, impassable during the wet season (148 km). The engineering study
of the Lai-Bongor link to all-weather standards is presently being carried out
and construction financed by FED is expected to be completed by 1977/78. Cur-
rently, trucks can enter the project area only at heavy cost due to the poor
condition of the tracks, and during the flood season the only means of commu-
nication is by canoe.
3.16      About 2,500 tons or one-third of annual paddy production in the area
is sold by farmers to the FDAR rice mill. The balance is consumed by farm
families and small quantities are sold, after hand-pounding, to private
traders.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      Project Description.  The proposed project would be carried out
over the six-year period FY 74-79 and would improve conditions for wet sea-
son rice cultivation on about 11,000 ha of the Sategui-Deressia plain. Proj-
ect works would include:
(a)  construction of two polders irrigated by gravity and serving
a net rice cultivated area of 4,000 ha;
(b)  construction of 102 km of feeder roads to serve the entire
project area of 11,000 ha;
(c)  rehabilitation of an existing agricultural station to permit
applied researc'n and seed multiplication; and
(d)  construction of a rice mill (4 tons/hour capacity), storage
facilities, housing and office buil'dings.



- 7-
The project would also include the purchase of equipment and the preparation
of a feasibility study for a second phase project. The Office de Mise en
Valour de Sategui-Deressia (OMVSD), established under the project, would ope-
rate and maintain the works, provide extension services and inputs on credit
to all project farmers and process and market project produced paddy. Con-
sultants would be engaged to help prepare final designs and bidding documents;
to supervise construction; to reinforce OMVSD management and train its staff;
and to assist in the preparation of the second-stage feasibility study.
4.02      Operating costs of OMVSD would be financed under the project during
the initial four years of project implementation. This financing would de-
cline prograssively in years five and six as part of operating costs would
be met from OMVSD self-generated revenue. After this time it is anticipated
that the project would generate satfficient revenue to sustain itself (para
5.08). Consequently, it is considered justifiable to treat operating costs
in the six-year implementation period as part of the capital costs of bring-
ing the project to maturity.
4.03      ProJect Works.  From an intake on the Logone River a 6.2 km, the
main canal, would convey water to a compensation basin, whose function would
be to regulate and control the irrigation supply to the polders and to provide
an early water supply to rice-growing areas outside the polders. The basin
would be equipped with adequate flood relief structures. Irrigation water
would be distributed to independent blocks in the polders by primary and
secondary canal networks, Each polder would have a drainage system discharg-
ing to the natural drainage lines of the plain to cope with storm water run-
off and to permit the rice ftelds to be dried off before harvesting. On a
trial basis, a 650 ha block would be levelled and equipped with an irrigation
layout permitting water depths to be controlled between 10 cm and 20 cm on
the fields. No land levellinx is proposed for the other polder blocks where
water control would be achieved by contour bunds dividing each block into two
zones, one within which water depth would not exceed 30 cm. and the other
where water depth would not exceed 60 cm.
4.04      An all-weather earth road network would be constructed on top of
the dikes tn the polder area.    iWoulab  extended to Deressia.  To the
east of the project area, the existtng Lat-Banga read would also be improved
to all-weather tgandards. Total road construction would be 102 km.
4.05      The eoxsting Roumo AgriculturAl Station would be rehabilitated and
extended to 200 ha. Buildings would be renovated and vater supply installed.
The existing protective dike would be extended to protect the new development
and the irrigation and drainage network improved and extended as required.
Land levelling would be carried out where necessary,
4.06      A rice mill with a capacity of 4 tons/hour would be built at Lai.
The existing mi'll would be salvaged for use elsewhere, and the present build-
ings used for storage. A new building would be constructed to house the equip-
ment. In addition, eight field depots, each of 1,000 tons capacity, would be
constructed to facilitate the collection and transport of paddy to the mill.



- 8 -
4.0)7     At the project headquarters at Lai, housing and offices would be
constructed. Eleven houses would be built to accommodate project staff. In
addition, an office, a workshop, a store and a guest house would be construct-
ed. Details are given in Annex 3.
4.08      Second Stage Studies.  For the long-term development of the plain,
a feasibility study for a second-stage project would be initiated with the
assistance of the consu IarcAt         thj _ t- tihird year of project implementation.
The second stage study would cover about 5,000 ha of polder area, but could
be enlarged if justified.  Topograthic mapping would be available after com-
pletion of the final designs of stage one, and hydrological observations would
be continued during project implementation; these would be supplemented as
required. Terms of reference are presented in Annex 4.
4.09      Water Supply, Demand and Quality.  The project would derive its
water supply from the Logone River during the high water stage from early-
August to mid-October. Peak water demand from the project is only 8 m3/sec;
this represents less than 1% of the average flow of the river during the high-
water period. The problem of supplv relates to the probable water levels in
the river at given dates. The level of the intake sill has consequently been
fixed at an elevation which assures early water supply to the project in the
quantities and at the time required, four years out of five. Even in years,
of low water level, however, supply would not be delayed by more than 15 days.
Water quality is adequate for irrigation. Details are presented in Annex 5.
4.10      In August 1970  Chad and Cameroon signed a water agreement on the
use of the Logone River concerning the permissible rise in flood water levels
resulting from projects completed or under consideration in each country, and
the permissible dry-season pumping of water for these projects. For the
Sategui-Deressia project, the agreement limits the permissible rise of flood
water levels in the Logone River as a result of the anticipated reduction of
spillover in the plain to 5 cm for floods of 100 years frequency downstream
of Ere.
43 11     The project works, as designed, would abstract at high flood 55
m /sec for the 100-year flood. The effect of this additional flow on water
levels downstream of Ere has been calculated to be less than the 5 cm stipu-
lated in the agreement. The Government of Chad has obtained a letter of
understanding from the Government of Cameroon acknowledging that for a
period of 40 years from the date of the agreement, it will not take any
measures that would interfere with the successful carrying out of the
Sategui Project unless it has obtained the prior consent of the Government
of Chad.
4.12      Engineering Design and Construction Schedule.  Preliminary design
has been completed for all project works. Available topographical mapping
at 1:10,000 scale with 0.25 m contours is adequate for work quantities to
be estimated for tender purposes. To expedite calling of bids, the engineer-
ing consultants who prepared the feasibility study, Carlo Lotti, are, under
UNDP financing, preparing tender documents for all civil works, which are



- 9 -
scheduled to be issued in early March 1974. Engineering consultants, engaged
under the project, would prepare final designs that would be completed by the
time that award of contract would be made. The consultants would subsequent-
ly supervise construction (para. 6.01).
4.13      Civil works would be constructed during two dry seasons, starting
in Dlecember 1974 and being completed by June 1976. The intake works, polder
M, housing, offices and stores at project headquarters, as well as two field
storage centers, would be completed during the first construction season.
Polder D, the rice mill buildings and the balance of the field stores would
be constructed during the second construction season. To implement the fore-
going it will be necessary for Government to appoint engineering consultants
by early 1974 and to award the civil works contract not later than June 1974.
A detailed construction schedule is appended as Chart No. 7422.
4.14     Hlealth and Education.  The project is not expected to increase the
health hazards of the project area since there would be no increase in areas
intndated, and only a minor increase in the period of inundation. Indeed,
through the improvement of incomes it is hoped that nutrition and thus health
will improve. It is also believed that unsatisfactory as it is by the stand-
ards of developed countries, the lack of health care would not be a constraint
to achieving project production targets. However, the project is a first phase
(para 4.08) and if proven viable a series of subsequent projects aimed at the
rational development of the Logone flood plain would be initiated. With such
future development and its resultant revenue generation, expenditures on bet-
ter health services will be justified. To prepare the way, Government has
contacted WhIO with the objective of conducting a survey of the health situa-
tion in the project area to provide the basic data needed for planning future
health services and facilities. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would maintain a careful check on the human disease situation in
the project and adjacent areas, and take all apnropriate measures to control
such diseases.
4.15      It is not prooosed to improve educational services under the project,
but the educational needs of the project area would be examined in the context
of IDA's next educational operation iTI Chad.



- 10O -
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
5.01      Cost Estimates.  Taking into account recent clurrencv realignments
and projected price increases, the overall project costs, net of import duties
and taxes are estimated at IJSS12.0 million, with a foreign exchange component
of IJSS7.4 million or 62% of total cost. Foreign exchange cost estimates are
based on the assunntion that civil work contracts would be awarded to foreign
contractors who woulld imnort their equipment. Estimates for civil works are
based on well defined construction quantities, in view of the nature of works,
topography, and available information, and late 1973 unit prices obtained in
Chad for similar works.  Equipment purchases are valued at current CIF prices
plus transport and handling at the project site.  Engineering and management
consultants' fees are those prevailing for similar work in Western Africa.
Project costs also include provision for administrative costs and salaries
of local nersonnel. Such salaries have been costed at current rates plus 30%
to allow the recruitment of qualified Chadian professionals to project
positions (para 6.04).  Short and medium-term credit for agricultural inputs
and naddv purchases are costed at exnected farm-gate prices and OMVSD working
capital is estimated at an average of three months recurrent expenditure.
5.02      Although quantities are well known, an unusually high contingencv
element has been included in project costs to cover a risk premium that eon-
tractors may include in their bIds because of the remoteness of the Droject
area and the current trends in price increases.  Contingencies on both local
and foreign costs, excluding credit requirements and working capital, total
32% 1/ . Detailed cost estimates are in Annex 6 and are summarized below:
1/   Contingencies consist of a physical contingency of 10% on civil works
only and a price contingency of 12% in 1974, 10% in 1975 and 8% p.a.
from 1976 to 1979 for civil works and buildings. For all other items
there is a price contingency of 9% in 1974, 7% in 1975 and 5% p.a.
from 1976 to 1979.



- 11 -
SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATES
Item             ----CFAY million                US$ too0-------
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Civil Works            382      815   1,197    1,470   3,134   4,604
Buildings              125      141      266      483      540   1,023
Equipment                13     164      177       50      631      681
Management              191     130      321       734     501   1,235
Engineering
Consultants           30      170     200       115      654     769
Second-stage
Studies               11       46       57       44      175     219
Contingencien          281      456      737    1,081   1,753   2,834
Short- and Medium-
term Credit and
Working Capital      152        8      160      584       31      615
1,185   1,430   3,115    4,561   71,41    1980
5.03      Financing.  Project financing would be provided from the following
sources:
Foreign Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange  Cost
…    US$ million-----   ----- % -
IDA Credit                    2.5     5.0      7.5        67       63
ADF Loan                      1.5      2.4     3.9        62       32
Government Contribution       0.6       -      0.6         -        5
Total                    4.6      7.4    12.0         62     100
5.04      The IDA credit of US$7.5 million (CFAF 1,939 million) would finance
63% of project costs. It would cover the estimated total costs of civil works,
management consultants and 50% of the second-stage studies.
5.05      The ADF loan 1/ of 4 million units of account, equivalent to CFAF
1,016 million (US$3.9 mlllion) would finance 32% of project costs and would
be made on terms Identical to the IDA credit. The loan would cover the
estimated total costs of buildings, equipment, management services, engineer-
ing consultants and 50% of the second-stage studies. Signing of the ADF Loan
Agreement under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and the fulfillment of
all conditions precedent to initial disbursement under the ADF Agreement is
a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
1/   US$ figures in the report for ADF financing are indicative only as a
rate of CFAF 260 - US$1 has been applied throughout. For ADF loans,
CFAF amounts are calculated at a fixed rate equivalent to one ADF
unit of account - CFAF 256 - US$1.10.



- 12 -
5.06      Because of its precarious budgetarv situation (para. 2.03) Government
is tnable to finance project investment or ooerating costs but would provide
short and medium-term credit to farmers and OMVSD working capital, initially
with a loan from the Development Bank of Chad (BDT) to OMVSD and, subsequently,
from OMSUD self-generated funds. The estimated total reouirements during the
project development period are CFAF 160 million (US$615,000) equal to 5% of
project costs, of which CFEA  130 million is for short and medium-term credit,
and CFAF 30 million for OMVSD working capital.
5.07      During the first three years, annual OMVSD loan requirements from BDT
are estimated at CFAF 90 million (US$346,000). After year three, it is anti-
cipated that OMVSD self-generated funds would be available to progressively
renlace BDT funds which would decrease to about CFAF 20 million by year six
and be entirely elimiated by year ten (see para. 5.08). During negotiations
assurances were obtained from Government that BDT would provide funds to
MM1SD totalling up to CFAF 160 million (IJS$615,000) for farmers' short and
medium-term credit, paddy purchases and for OMVSD working capital; that these
funds would be made available to OMVSD promDtly as needed; and that the BDT
interest rate would not exceed the interest rates charged for other crops,
presently 5-1/2% per annum. Onlendinp to farmers by OMVSD for short and
medium-term seasonal credit would bear the same interest, in line with the
national policy for lending to farmers.
5.08      During the six-year period through 1970 cash generated by OMVSD,
after deducting proportionate operating costs in years five and six (para.
4.02), would total about CFAF 250 million (US$961,000). Thereafter OMVSD
would cover all its recurrent expenditures and generate CFAF 102 million
(US$392,000) annually. As these funds become available, they would be used
to repay the IDA credit and ADF loan to Government (see para. 5.10); and for
farmers' seasonal credit, paddy purchases and OMVSD working capital. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that OMVSD funds generated by the
project during the period through 1979 after deducting recurrent expenditures
chargeable to OMISD would be used for this purpose.
5.09      Estimated annual IDA and ADF disbursements on the project are
summarized belox:
FY        1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979    Total
IDA          -    3.8    3.0    0.3    0.3    0.1        7.5
ADF        0.4    1.3    1.3    0.4    0.3    0.2        3.9
Total    0.4    5.1    4.3    0.7    0.6    0.3    11.4
A breakdown of project expenditures and an estimated IDA disbursement schedule
are given in Annex 7.
5.10      Relending Terms.  To ensure the project's financial autonomy, the
IDA credit and the ADF loan would be onlent by Government to OMVSI) for fifty years
including six years of grace. Repayment by OMVSD would commence May 1, 1980, at
the annual rate of CFAF 90 million in two equal semi-annual installments. This
is equivalent to full debt repayment at 1.4% interest. It also corresponds to



- 13 -
to full debt repayment if the proceeds of the IDA credit and ADF loan were made
available to OMVSD partly as a grant of US$5.4 million to cover items usually
grant-financed (e.g., roads agricultural station, management and engineering
consulting services) and partly as a loan of US$6.0 million for 50 years
including 6 years of grace at 6% interest to cover the cost of the remaining
project items. While the relending terms are unusually soft, they are
justified because:
(a) in a first-stage project of this tyne, part of the capital
investment benefits subsequent stages; repayment capacity would
substantially increase during the proposed second stage;
(b)  the annual repayment absorbs 90% of OMVSD estimated annual net
revenues;
(c) the alteniative solution of increasing farmerst charges and
ex-mill rice prices would act as a disincentive to increased
rice production and consumntion; and
(d)  increased rice production would provide a stable food grain
supply supplementing the erratic production of rainfed millet,
a major goal of Government policy related to drought relief.
SiRning of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and MMSD is a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
5.11      Recoverv of Costs.  All project costs, both capital investment and
recurrent as defined in para 5.01, would be recovered: (a) through imnosition
of a levy on polder area farmers, equal to about 10% of gross production: and
(b) from benefits generated from OMVSD rice milling operations. This is in-
tended to correspond roughly with the two categories of services provided bv
the project i.e. (a) controlled water supnly to polder farmers; and (b) exten-
sion, inputs, credit and roads to all project farmers.
5.12      The levv would he collected bv 04VSD at harvest time, together with
credit repayments for seeds and other inputs through a cash deduction from
the proceeds of farmers' paddy sold to OMVST (see para 6.08). Collection of
the levy wou]d commence in project year three when the first parts of the
polder area wotuld be in operation and is then estimated to amount to about
CFAF 2.0 million. The annual returns from the levy are estimated at about
CFAF 18 million at full development which would more than cover the operation
and maintenance costs of project works (para 6.08). Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that this levy would be imoosed on all 950 polder farmers.
5.13      At full development annual benefits accruing to OMVSD from its rice
milling operations, plus the levy, are estimated at about CFAF 163 million.
As shown in the financial analysis at Annex 15, such funds would be sufficient
to cover OMVSD's recurrent exnenditures and to repay CFAF 90 million per
annum to the Government from years 7 through 50 (the assumed life of the
prolect) after retaining about CFAF 12 million for increases in workine
canital and reserves.



- 14 -
5.14      Procurement.  Civil works contracts for construction of the
irrigation and drainage system, roads and rehabilitation of the agricultural
station, estimated to cost TJS$6.5 million, including contingencies, would be
tendered on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines for procurement. Because of the remoteness and
inaccessibility of the construction site and the high costs of mobilization
and camp installation, and to achieve better coordination during construction,
all civil works would be grouped into a single contract.  Government has been
advised of Bank/IDA new policy regarding preferences for domestic civil works
contractors in bid evaluation but it is unlikely that this optiotI would be
exercised in view of the very limited capacity of the local contracting
industry. Small, off-the-shelf items costing less tnan US$5,000 each,
which are not suitable for international tendering would be purchased
through normal Government procurement procedures. Such purchases would be
limited to a total of US$50,000. There are sufficient supplies of such
goods so that adequate competition exists.  Farmers' agricultural inputs
valued at US$82,000 in vear six would be procured under ONDR procedures
(para. 6.08). Items to be financed by ADF (para. 5.05) would be procured
under ADF regulations which restrict bidding to donor countries and all
member states of ADF.
5.15      Disbursements.  The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed only
against costs net of taxes and duties (5.01) and by direct payments to
contractors and consultants. All disbursements would be made against state-
ments certified by the consultants in the case of contractors. Consultants'
costs would be certified by the Director General and Chief Accountant acting
jointly. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that OMVSD would hold
all its funds in an account with BDT at N'Djamena, and that Government would
exempt all goods and services financed through the 17iZA credit from taxes and
duties.
5.16      Accounts and Audits.  Because of l-ack of trained personnel, Govern-
ment auditing procedures are inadeqcl>te.  t,urz..  negotiations assurances were
obtained that OMVSD would- (a) establish an accounting systei acceptable to
IDA in which all project costs would be consolidated; (b) have project accounts
audited annually by an independent aditor acceptable to IDA; and (c) would
send copies of the audited finan-1-sl state.rrits together withl the auditors'
report to IDA within six months of the close of C'nad's fiscal year.
VI.  ORGAiNZA`f1iI AND MANAGFIMFfT
6.01      Implementation of  rh Te implementation of project
works would be entrusted to an autontovacus project authority, OMVSD, under
the general supervision of MTPAT.  in order to assist OMVSD in the prepara-
tion of final designs for civil wor-S'v  and buildings, bidding documents for
the rice mnill machinery, evaluation of' all. bids, and the supervision of
construction of civil works and builcings, MTPAT would engage an engineering
consulting firm. The employment of Nsuch consultants on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA and ADF is a condition of credit effectiveness.



- 15 -
6.02      Management of the Prolect.  OMVSD would be an etablissement public
a caractere industriel et commercial with power to: (a) construct, operate
and maintain project works; (b) allocate among farmers unused land within
the polders (para. 6.03); (c) provide extension services to project area
farmers; (d) produce and distribute seeds; (e) procure and sell farm inputs;
(f) operate an equipment rental scheme for seeders and threshers; (g) provide
agricultural credit to project participants; (h) purchase, process and market
paddy produced in the project area; and (i) collect project levies from polder
area farmers (para. 6.10). The establishment of OMVSD with statutes acceptable
to IDA is a condition of effectiveness of the Credit. Assurances were also
obtained at negotiations that any changes to such legislation would be under-
taken only with IDA approval.
6.03      Land Tenure Provision.  Outside the project polders the project
would not affect the existing land tenure system, but inside the polder areas
some small modifications to farm boundaries would be inevitable. However,
the objective would be to retain the existing pattern of land distribution
with the minimum of change, and for presently unused land to be allocated as
far as possible under the traditional system (para. 3.09). Nonetheless, to
ensure that project implementation would not be disrupted by disputes arising
frzom unfair allocation, assurances were obtained from Government during nego-
tiations that OMVSD would be responsible for allocating among farmers unused
land within the polder area. Appropriate provision concerning the foregoing
would be embodied in the legislation establishing OMVSD (para. 6.02).
6.04      Staffing Requirements.  Government would appoint to OMVSD a
full-time director general with experience and qualifications acceptable
to IDA. The director general would have full authority over ONVSD staff and
would appoint all local personnel. To assist OMVSD because experienced local
personnel are lacking, a management consulting firm would be engaged by the
Director General to provide foreign experts for four key positions during
the early stages of project implementation. These positions would be:
project technical director, chief accountant, extension officer, and
operation and maintenance engineer. A research agronomist would be re-
cruited from a specialized agency (para. 6.07). It is estimated that about
16 man-years of foreign experts would be required, including 12 months of
backup specialists. Terms of reference for the management consultants are
given in Annex 9. Two more foreign experts; a chief mechanic and a rice
mill supervisor, would be engaged by OMVSD, preferably under individual contracts.
6.05      Concurrently, sufficient local professional staff would be recruited
by OMVSD to work as counterparts to the foreign experts with a view to their
taking over from the foreign experts once their inservice training is completed.
For this purpose, qualified Chadians are available or in training abroad, and
would be attracted to project positions by the higher salary scales and the
housing and transportation facilities that would be provided under the project.
The higher salaries, about 30% above present Government rates, would be needed
to attract suitable staff and to retain them in the project area.



- 16 -
6.06      OMVSD would comprise six departments:  administration (which would
also be responsible for credit), extension and evaluation service, operation
and maintenance, workshop, agricultural station, and rice mill. Total staff,
including permanent and seasonal workers, are estimated to reach about 125
at full development; these numbers are justified by the intensity of the opera-
tion and the extent of service provided :o farmers.  Specific provisions would
be included in zL.e Consulzant-'s contracts describing the in-service training
to be provided to local personnel, methods for evaluating such training, and
a proposed schedule of Chadianisation which would be reviewed by Government
and IDA annually.  Cost estimates and staff employment details by years are
presented in Annex 10. Assurances were obtained from Government at nego-
tiations that:
(a) a full-time director general, with qualification and experience
acceptable to IDA, would be appointed;
(b) a management consulting firm would be employed to furnish
OMVSD with the services of four experts with qualifications
and experience and under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA and would be in post by July 1974; and
(c)  Chadian counterpart personnel would be appointed to the
foreign experts not later than six months after commence-
ment of the experts' employment with OMVSD, and would be
trained to takeover from the foreign experts in accordance
with a schedule satisfactory to IDA.
The employment of management consultants by OMVSD on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA and the posting of the Technical Director is a condition
of effectiveness of the Credit.
6.07      Agricultural Research.  The Boumo agricultural station, that would
be rehabilitated under the project, would carry out an accelerated program of
rice selection and conduct trials on fertilizer use, weed control, pesticides,
and irrigation. It would also undertake seed multiplication for the project
area. Dry-season cropping trials would be carried out with selected farmers
on about 100 ha of the station. The foregoing activities would be carried
out under the direction of a foreign expert for about three years, after
which a Chadian agronomist would take over. It is anticipated that the
expert would be supplied by an agency such as the International Institute
for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) or the Institut de Recherches Agronomigues
Tropicales (IRAT) which would assist in the preparation and monitoring of the
research program. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that OMVSD would enter into a contract with such an agency under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. Details are given in Annex 11.
6.08      Agricultural Inputs and Credit.  Very little inputs or credit support
is presently made available to project area farmers. Under the project, OMVSD
would operate a supervised credit program for all project area farmers (paras.



- 17 -
5.07 and 5.08). Seeds would be produced at the Boumo station. All other
inputs would be obtained through the national purchasing agency ONDR, which
is efficient and follows satisfactory procurement procedures for such inputs.
Annual short-term credit requirements for the procurement of fertilizers, small
implements and seeds would be about CFAF 25 million (US$96,000) at the com-
mencement and the project and are estimated to increase to between CFAF 75
million and CFAF 100 million (US$288,000 and US$384,000) at full development.
The credit would be required for an average period of 6-8 months and would
be recovered from farmers when paddy is purchased by OMVSD for milling.  The
interest rate charged to farmers would be 5-1/2% per annum (para. 5.07) and
each farmer would sign a simple loan agreement, similar to those used for
Chadian cotton farmers, with OMVSD. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from Government that the form of seasonal credit agreement between
OMVSD and project farmers would be subject to IDA approval.
6.09      Operation and Maintenance.  OMVSD would be in charge of all operation
and maintenance of project works, including feeder roads and buildings. For
this purpose adequate staff, equipment and workshop facilities would be pro-
vided under the project. Commencing in project year six, annual operation
and maintenance costs are estimated to amount to CFAF 16 million or
CFAF 4,210 (US$16) per cropped ha in the polder area. Details of this
estimate are given in Annex 12.
VII.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
7.01      Production.  Under the project, paddy area is expected to increase
from 9,000 ha to about 11,000 ha, all a single wet-season crop. Due to earlier
inundation and generally better water control, and the extensive use of improved
seed and fertilizers, yields are expected to rise from a present average of
0.9 t/ha 1/ to 2.5 t/ha in the polder areas and to 1.4 t/ha in fields outside
the polders. It is estimated that these yields would be attained by 1982, the
ninth year of the project. Annual paddy production is expected to increase
from a cturrent 8,000 tons to about 20,000 tons by that year. Details of
crop area, yields, and Production are given in Annex 13.
7.02      Market and Prices.  Chad's annual rice consumption is now about
25,000 tons; as domestic demand for rice is expected to continue to increase
at the past growth rate of 4% per annum, total demand by 1982 is estimated
to reach 40,000 tons. Incremental project rice production would be about
8,000 tons by 1982 or a little more than half of the anticipated increment in
domestic demand. No significant quantities of rice are currently imported
in Chad.
1/   In the economic analysis for the "without project" alternative, the
present paddy yield has been assumed to increase by 1% per annum to
1 ton/ha.



- 18 -
7.03      The official farmgate price for paddy was raised in November 1973
from CFAF 14 to CFAF 18/kg and the corresponding weighted average ex-mill
price for rice is expected to reach CFA? 43,640 ton (US$168).  This price is
lower than international rice prices plus transport costs to Chad valued at
current exchange rate at CFAF 62,100/ton (US$239). More detail on marketing
and prices is given in Annex 14, and for the economic analysis of the project
the Bank's forecast world price for rice with 40% broken grain of US$120/ton
fob Rangoon in 1980 has been used.
7.04      Project paddy would be purchased from the farmers by OMVSD, which
would be equipped under the project with the necessary processing, storage
and transportation facilities. OMVSD would sell the milled rice wholesale,
preferably on an ex-mill basis; OMVSD would also be permitted under its
statutes to deliver rice to consumption centers for direct sale and assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
7.05      Successful project implementation would depend on Government pricing
policies for paddy and rice. The recent farmgate paddy price increase brought
it to levels comparable to those in neighboring countries among farmers with
similar expectations. The financial analysis in Annex 15 shows that on this
basis an increase of about 11% in ex-mill prices, spread over five years,
would be necessary to permit OMVSD to cover its operating costs and debt
service requirements. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
Government will maintain farmgate prices of paddy at a level sufficient to
induce farmers to grow rice and market it through OMVSD, and will raise the
ex-mill prices of rice to levels sufficient to provide OMVSD with revenues
adequate to cover its operating costs and debt repayments to Government.
Paddy and rice prices fixed by Government are subject to acceptance by IDA
and, insofar as possible, will take into account consumers' interest.
7.06      Farmer's Benefits.  Under the project the size of the average
family farm would continue to be about 4.5 ha. Thus, while about 2,000 ha
of additional paddy land would be developed as a consequence of the project
it has been assumed that this would be absorbed by the natural growth of the
rural population. At full development the number of paddy growers is expected
to reach 2,400 as against 1,900 at present (para. 3.07). Average yields are
expected to double to 1.8 t/ha and this would result in substantial income
increases despite higher production costs and charges for the operation and
maintenance of project works (para. 6.08). Comparative budgets for rice
growing operations are at Annex 16, and the average present and "with project"
budgets are summarized below, with paddy priced at 18 CFAF/kg in both cases:



- 19 -
Present         With Project
Polder Non Polder
Yield (t/ha)                           0.9          2.5       1.4
--CFAF------------
Gross Revenue                         72,900    192,500    113,400
Production Cost                        7,290     37,950      21,780
Project Charges                         -        19,250        -
Net Income /1                         65,610    135,300      91,620
-------US$ equivalent -------
252        520         352
/1   Assuming no fertilizer subsidy.
7.07      For the average family of 4.8 persons, average per capita net
income would rise from US$52 to US$73 outside of the polders and USS10R in
the polder area. Consequently the project would serve to close the income
gap between that now earned by this particularly poor segment of the popii-
lation and Chad's average GNP per capita of US$80 in 1971.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's direct economic benefits would comprise the annual
incremental production of rice that it would generate. This would amount to
about 8,000 tons annuallv at project maturitv. The internal economic return
has been calculated by comparing with and without project situations (Annex
17) and incremental rice production has been valued at world prices (para
7.03 and Annex 14). The prolect life is taken as 50 years, a normal period
for an irrigation project of this type. In calculating the rate of return
account is taken of all project capital and recurrent costs with the exception
of the 40% of road costs tha. can be justifiably charged against non-project
activities and the costs of the studies for a second stage project. Also
shadow prices have been used for the labor needed for project construction
and for foreign exchange. The legal minimum wage is CFAF 560 per dav, a
patently inflated figure in a country as poor as Chad, consequently a shadow
price of CFAF 150 per day is used as better representing the economic opportunity
cost of labor. For foreign exchange a rate 12% higher than the current rate
has been used. Using the foregoing shadow prices the rate of return is 14.4%.
For comparative purposes the return has also been claculated using market
prices for labor and foreign exchange; using such,prices the return drops to
13.0%.



- 20 -
8.02      The rate of return has been tested for its sensitivity to delays
in development, and to changes in costs and benefits: the results are presented
in Annex 17. Briefly, cost overruns of 15% would depress the rate of return
to 11.0%, as would a decrease in benefits of 15%.
8.03      The project's rate of return is average for a prolect of this type,
and while the technical risks involved are not excessive, forecast vields
and domestic rice prices are conservative and the farmers' progressive and
hardworking, the general state of public administration and finance in Chad
is such that the project must be considered to have a high risk factor. On
the other hand Chad's problems stem largely from the difficulty of developing
a viable economy in an isolated country deficient in natural resources and
with an arid climate prone to droughts. Thus any project designed to make
the best use of limited natural resources and to raise, and probably more
important, to ensure rural living standards against the vagaries of the
weather, has a special priority that mav not be reflected fully by a rate of
return based solely on direct production benefits. This is particularly so
in the case of this project since it is a first phase project and suffers from
diseconomies of scale, in particular due to high management costs. However,
at anpraisal it was considered that in view of the risks involved the project
should be of the minimum size able to support the overheads involved, and
that further polder construction in the Sategui-Deressia plain should await
the results of the first phase project. Consequently future phases of devel-
opment should show superior rates of return.
8.04      The fact that the project will raise yields on 7,000 ha of land not
empoldered, (paragraph 7.01 and Annex 13) could be interpreted to indicate
that emDoldering is not peceqsarv and that cheaper alternatives to the project
might be: (a) no works, but improved extension services and use of farm inputs,
and (b) as for (a) but with works designed solely to allow earlier flooding of
the plain. The first alternative may be excluded since with uncontrolled flood-
ing in terms either of time and depth, the use of inputs such as fertilizer
would be wasted so frequently that farmers simpDl would not use them. The
second alternative is technicallv illogical in so far as to ensure controlled
early flooding a major and expensive network of canals would be required to
distribuite water to a crop which later would be subject to uncontrolled in-
undation.  While the yields on such areas would be improved the uncontrolled
inundation would place a permanent ceiling on yields which would prevent farm
families from achieving the levels of income needed to ensure a reasonable
quality of life, see Annex 16. In short the betterment of the 7,000 ha of
land outside the project polders would be a by-product of the polder development,
and the project has not been designed specifically to achieve such a result.
It is logical however, to take advantage of this by-product, although as devel-
opment of the plain proceeds with subsequent phases of development these areas
will themselves bv empoldered.



- 21 -
8.05      The project would have a number of important secondary benefits.
These benefits would include training Chadian project personnel and farmers
in irrigation development and management; the improvement of rice research;
and the demonstration of the self-contained and financially self-sustaining
project approach to development which may be an answer to some of Chad's
development problems.  The project would also initiate double-cropping on a
pilot scale; while the scope for this is limited due to water shortages
double cropping could result in major financial and economic gains in the
prolect area. More importantly, the project would nearly double the incomes
of 2,400 small farm families, bringing them close to the national average,
provide additional employment, and generally improve standards of living in
the project area by the provision of an all-weather road network.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONNENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, ADF and IDA agreed on a draft protocol agree-
ment to cover parallel financing arrangements of the project by the two
institutions.
9.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with ADF and Government
on the following principal points:
(a)  BDT would provide up to CFAF 160 million to OM!VSD, promptly
as needed, for farmers' short and medium-term credit, paddy
purchases and OMVSD working capital (para. 5.07):
(b)  a draft subsidiary loan agreement for relending to OMVSD
(para. 5.10);
(c)  a draft arrete exempting all goods and services financed through
the IDA Credit from taxes and duties (para. 5.15);
(d)  a draft engineering contract for the employment of Engineering
Consultants (para 6.01);
(e)  a draft Ordonnance establishing OMVSD (para. 6.02).
9.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit are:
(a)  the signing of the ADF loan agreement under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA and the fulfillment of all
conditions precedent to initial disbursement under the ADF
Agreement;
(b) the signing of a subsidiarv loan agreement acceptable to IDA
for relending to ONVSD (para. 5.10);



- 22 -
(c) the exemption of all goods and services financed through the
IDA credit from taxes and duties (para. 5.15);
(d)  the employment of engineering consultants on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 6.01);
(e) the establishment of OMVSD as an etablissement public with
statutes acceptable to IDA (para. 6.02); and
(f) the employment of management consultants by OMVSD on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA and the posting of the
Technical Director (para. 6.06).
9.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$7.5 million equivalent under the usual IDA terms. The Borrower would
be the Government of Chad.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatic Data
Temperature Co 2          AverageL2           L
Average L         -     xAverage    Average    ?eiative    AverngeL
M on-,ns      Rainfall     Average    Maximum    Minimum    Humidity   Evaporati- on
mm                                             _ _ _         2
Ja!qu,ary       0           24.8        34.7        14.8        40          185
Februa: y        0          27.5         37.4       17.5        31           205
..,arch         9.5         30.6         38.1       22.0         36          251
A?rii          34.2         30(.8        37.8       23.8        54           231
May            96.C         29.1         35.0       23.2         64          186
JT1ne         139.0         27.1         32.4       21.8         73          131
j'uly         228.3         25.8         30.3       21.3         78           96
August        297.0         25.5         29.8       21.1        80            94
'eptember     216.0         25.7         30.4       20.9         79           96
-)ctober       57.6         26.9         32.6       21.1        72           167
November        1.8         26.5         34.8       18.1         57          196
December        0           24.7         34.5       14.9         48          181
Iotal        1,079.4        27.1         34.0       20.0         59        2,019
L   Lai, 25 years, iNSL  375 m.
12 l oundou, 20 years, -¶SL 422 m (9O0kr S-lI of Lai)
L  ORST'oT measurements 3 years, Lai.



ANNEX 2
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils
1.        Soils are hydromorphic, coarse textured near the surface - sands
to clay sands, and becoming finer with depth - clay sands to sandy clays.
Top soil is slightly acid and permeable (0.7 cm/hour to 5.5 cm/hour); with
depth pH increases to almost 7.0 and permeability decreases rapidly (0.02
cm/hour to 2.3 cm/hour).  Organic matter content is negligible; and phosphorous
(P205) and exchangeable potassium (K20) contents are low.  Salinity or alkal-
inity hazards are not anticipated.
2.        A semidetailed land classification survey of the Sategui, Goundo,
Mande and Deressia rice areas, and covering 11,275 ha, has revealed that al-
most 90% of the land is suitable for rice growing.  The classification was
based on the physical properties of soils, with special emphasis on their
suitability for rice growing. The following classes were distinguished:
Class 1:  (4,650 ha) silty sands to clay silts in the top soil,
going into sandy clavs in the subsoil. Level and
gently sloping land with reasonably good internal
drainage. Ilighly suitable.
Class 2:  (2,325 ha) generally heavier soils, having a stronger
micro relief than Class 1 soils, and with poorer in-
ternal drainage. Suitable.
Class 3:  (2,810 ha) sandy top-soil; satisfactory drainage.
Moderately suitable.
Class 6:  (1,490 ha) not suitable because topographv excludes
gravity irrigation.
3.        The polder areas to be developed under the project consist mostly
of class 1 and 2 soils.



ANTMY 3
Page 1
CIIAD
SATEGUI-DFRESSTA IRRICATION PROJECT
Project Works
1.        General Description.  A main canal from the Logone River would
discharge into a conpensation basin, from which a controlled irrigation
supply woulld he provided to two main polder areas (designated ttf and 'D").
The polders would be protected by dikes and would have a cultivable area of
about 3,800 ha.  A drainage network would cope with storm-water runoff and
periit the rice fields to be dried off before harvesting. Access to the
project area would be provided by an all-weather road network. The irrigated
network at the Boumo agricultural station would be expanded to serve 200 ha.
A new 4 tons per hour rice mill would be erected together with anpropriate
bui]ding, and the existing mill would be salvaged for use elsew,,here. Exist-
inp mill buildings would be renovated for rice storage. In addition, eight
field depots would be constructed in the project area. Housing and offices
would be constructed for the project's headquarters at Lai.
2.         Intake Structure.  A 100 m diversion canal with a bottom width of
27.40 m would convev water from the Logone River to the main canal. The
intake would include a gabion protected sill and a reinforced concrete
bridpe across the canal wqhich would carry the Lai-Bongor road. The intake
level of the canal, upstream at the sill, would be fixed at an elevation
which would guarantee water supply to the polders in the quantities and at
the time required with a frequency of 4 out of 5 years.
3.        On the upstream side of the road bridge, reinforced concrete
masking walls between the piers would regulate and reduce the 100-year flood
flow to between 55m/Iee and 60m3/sec.  No other control would be necessary
at the intake. A 60 cm freeboard above high flood level would be allowed for
the Lai-Bongor road.
4.         DVain Canal.  Downstream of the road bridge a 6.4 km canal with
a bottor width of 20 mn and a bed grade of 0.015% would convey irrigation
water diverted at the intake to the compensation basin. The canal would
be protected by di'-es on both sides. The right bank dike would have a top
width of 4.00 m to accommodate the Sategui-Dila-Mande-Deressia road, and
would have a 0.50 m freeboard above high flood level.
5.        The intake, the main canal, and the primary canal supplying polder
D have been designed with enough excess capacity to permit the release of
water to the nonpolder area two to three weeks earlier than would be the
case with natural flooding; between 4,000 and 5,000 ha could benefit from
this earlier inundation.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        Compensation Basin.  The compensation basin would be located ad-
jacent to the proposed polders in an area of heavy clay soils which at
present are uncultivated. It would be contained by the perimeter dikes
of polders Y and D, the Mande-Dila road, and by a connecting dike between
the nolders on the west.  Its function woul7d 7he tc re-ulate normal supply
level at the polder -intakes to an elevation of 350.50 m above MBL.
7.        Because the unregulated flow in the main canal may exceed irriga-
tion requirements at high river stages, the compensation basin would be pro-
vided with relief structures capable of discharging the maximum inflow ex-
pected. Gated pipe culverts would be provided in the dike on the Mande-Dila
road with a capability of discharging 28 m3/sec at high flood level. These
culverts could also be used for early flooding of nonpolder areas (see
para 5).  Flood gates in the west dike and an emergency spillway would nro-
vide the additional capacity necessary to discharge the reauired 55 m3/sec.
Also, the nrimary canals supplying the polders would be canable of discharg-
ing 15 m3/sec directly into the plain if needed.
8.        Polder M.  Polder 'N would be situated southwest of the compensa-
tion basin and west of the Mande-Dila road. It would be protected by a
perimeter dike on the southeast and east, where the Sategui-Mande road and
the road from Mande to Sissi will be located.  To the northeast, it would
be protected by a perimeter dike constructed outside the main collector
drain. The polder would be subdivided by dikes into seven independent
blocks, giving a total cultivable area of 1,750 ha.
9.        Land levelling would be used only for block M3 (650 ha).  On the
remaining blocks, water levels would be controlled by constructing contour
bunds: these would be 50 cm high and would divide each block into two zones,
one withlin which water depth would not exceed 30 cm, and the other where
water depth would not exceed 60 cm. Block !1 would be levelled to control
water denthr to between 1' cm and 20 cm, in 2 ha rectangular fields.
10.       A primary and secondary canal network, fed from a control struc-
ture on the compensation basin, would convey irrigation water to the polder
blocks.  I'nlevellec0 blockos would be supplied by controlled flooding through
e2ated offtakoes. In block !'3, the fields would be grouped into 14 ha units
(700 m x 200 m) and supplied from field ditches fed from the secondary
co7nals throtiglh simple gated structures.  Where topography permits, two units
tWould lse su,pplied by a common field ditch.
11.       To drain the unlevelled blocks, colloctors v:otild be excavatec7 in
Iov-lyin> areas.  T'e.e collectors would discharge, througth controlled
oitlets, into secondary drains linking up with a main collector drain.  In
blocl- Mi3, fiolds in each unit would be linked by a comnon drain fed by open-
ing- Lhe field blunds as required.  These field drains would be connected to
the overall nolder drainage network.  To permit outflow of stormwater at all
times, the main collector drain would discharge into a natural drain and
chlannel about 1,600 m downstream of the polder.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
12.       Polder D.  Situated north of the compensation basin, Polder D
would be protected on the west by a perimeter dike constructed outside the
main supply canal, and on the east by the dike carrying the Dila-Deressia
road.  The polder would he subdivided by dikes into 14 independent blocks
giving a total of 2,100 ha of cultivable land.
13.       No land levelling would be undertaken in this polder and, as in
Dolder M, contour bunds would divide each block into two water-depth zones,
one 30 cm and the other 60 cm.
14.       Irrigation water would be conveyed to the blocks bv primary and
secondary canals, fed through a control structure on the compensation basin.
The blocks would be irrigated by controlled flooding through gated offtakes.
19.       Drainage would be assured by collectors located in low-lying areas;
controlled outlets would discharge either directly into the plain outside
the polder, or into a drainage network which ultimately would discharge out-
side the polder.
16.       Roads.  Access would be provided to all villages within the poldered
area and its immediate vicinity. Compacted earth roads (70 kn) would be
located on the dike crests and would have a width of 3.50 m and a freeboard
of 50 cm above the high flood level.  The existing 32 km road, Lai-Banga,
would he improved to all weather standards by construction on fill above flood
level and where necessary, by providing culverts.
17.       Boumo Agicultural Station.  The irrigated area would be extended
to 200 ha. The main canal would be rehabilitated and extended to an intake
site on the Logone which would permit dry season pumping. The existing dike
would be extended to give protection to the enlarged irrigated area, and
improved distribution and drainage networks would be provided.  Where
necessary, the area would be levelled to control water depths to between
10 cm and 20 cm. Over part of the area proposed for double cropping, field
btinds would be constructed to subdivide the area into suitably sized fields.
The general layout would be similar to the layout of block M3.  Existing
buildings would be rehabilitated, and a domestic water supply would be pro-
vided.
1.S.      Rice Mill and Storage.  A 4 t/hour rice mill would replace the
existing mill at Lai, and 1,300 m2 building would be constructed to house
the new equipment.  Existing ecuipment would be dismantled and salvaged for
use elsewhere, and the existing building renovated and converted for use
as rice storage. In the project area, eight storage depots would be const-
ructed to facilitate paddy collection and transport. Each would consist of
a 400 m2 store with a capacity of 1,n00 tons.
19.       Buildings at Lai.  Project headquarters would be at Lai where
11 houses would be built for staff accommodation. An office block, work-
shop, store, and guest house would also be constructed and equipped.






A"INYEX 3
Table 1
Page 1
CTAD
SATEGUI DERESSIA PROJEC7
Civil Work, Constructicn Quantities, and Buildings
Intake, TIain Canal and Compensation Basin
F;art . works  . .. -   Excavation                                  132,200 mi3
Compacted fill from borrow                  112,200 Tr3
Compacted fil' 2rom excavation               66,300 m3
.tructures         -   Excavation                                     1,50C Im3
Concrete                                      1,200 m3
Gabions                                         980 m3
Steelwork                                       27.4 t
Polder 1i4
Earthworks          -   Excavation                                  106,200 m3
Compacted fill 'from borrow                 319,600 m3
Compacted fill from excavation              159,800 m3
3tructures          -   Excavation                                      320 m3
Concrete                                        620 m3
Gabions                                          70 n3
Steelwork for gates                             16.1 t
Land Levelling      -   Block 1M3                                   227,000 m3
Polder D
Earthworks          -   Excavation canals                           112,000 m3
Compacted fill from borrow                  412,000 m3
Compacted fill from excavation               69,700 m3
Structures          -   Fxcavation                                     530 m3
Concrete                                        480 m3
Gabions                                        .150 m3
Steelwork for gates                              20 t
'toads
?older Area         -   '0  m_
Earthworks          -   Ccmpacted fill from borrow                  255,000 m3
Compacted fill from excavation               29,700 mI3
.1a/  Quantities include f'ield drains, and bunds -for 2 ha fields.
I,'  %!+vw:it.ies allocated to "fioads"? include incremental works required to
eiiabIe ro,nis to be located on dikes.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 2
Roads (Cont'd)
Lai - Banga Road   -   32 km
a'arthworks        -   Campacted fill frcm borrow                  142,800 m3
&A.'ICO Steel                                                          22 .8 t
'iee ,lil.l                        ildings                           Area
Renovation of Existing Building and Conversion to Rice Storage         650
;Jew 3uili ding for Rice 1i411                                       1,300
1 House                                                                100
lai Buildilg s
5 houses - 120 m2 each                                                 600
5 -iouses -  90 m2 each                                                4 0
Office Block                                                           256
.dorks,hop                                                             300
Storage                                                                100
Guest House                                                            200



A"'X 4
Page 1
CHAD
SATEGUTI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Second Stage Studies
1.        It is Government's intention to expand rice production to meet
growing domestic demand. The first phase of the Sategui-Deressia Project
(the subject of this report) would supply some of the country's rice needs
and would establish commercial rice production in an area providing favor-
able conditions for its extension. Further development would depend on the
performance of the first phase project, particularly with regard to:
(a)  the performance of the Project Authority;
(b)  the appropriateness of the technical approach adopted;
(c)  the progress made in solving land tenure problems;
(d)  the response of farmers to the project; and
(e)  the effectiveness of marketing arrangements.
On the basis of first phase project performance and within the framework
of overall development policies, a joint Government/TDA/ADF decision on
whether priority should be given to extension of the project could be taken
after the end of the project's second production season. A feasibility study
for a second phase project could then be initiated. Provision has been made
in project costs for such a study which probably would involve the detailed
study of a yet to be selected area of about 5,000 ha.  Identification and
selection of the area would be based on:
(a)  1:10,000 topographical mapping, covering some 45,000 ha of
the Sategui-Deressia plain; this mapping would be available
following completion of first phase design work;
(b)  analysis of the additional hydrological observations which
would be carried out during first phase project implementa-
tion;
(c)  examination of the existing reconnaissance soil study of the
area to select the best alternative areas for comparative
study- and
(d)  analysis of current land use in the Sategui-Deressia plain.
2.        Ilaving selected the area, the feasibility study would include the
following:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(a) additional topographical mapping of the selected area to a
scale of 1:4,000;
(b) engineering studies in sufficient detail to prepare tender
documents;
(c) semi-detailed land classification survey including suitability
of soils for rice cultivation; and
(d) economic and financial analyses based on yields obtained under
the first phase project and the results of double-cropping
trials at the Boumo station.
3.        The feasibility study would be carried out during the second, third,
fourth and fifth years of project implementation. The engineering consultant
would prepare studies (a) and (b) and the management consultants studies (c)
and (d) assisted by OMVSD staff.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
1.        Gauging Stations.  The most reliable gauging station on the Logone
in the vicinity of the project area is at Lai, where daily water-level ob-
servations have been recorded since 1948. 1/ Daily flows have been tabulated
for 1948-70. A rating curve established for the station is considered to be'
reliable for average and flood discharges but slightly unstable at low flows.
Downstream of Lai, two stations have been established at which readings have
been taken for limited periods only to permit correlation with the Lai gauge.
At Sategui, daily readings were taken during the flood period, August to
September 1970, and at low flow in May 1971.  Good correlation was found with
the Lai gauge. At Goundo, downstream of Sategui, observations were taken
over the same period, but moderately good correlations were established be-
tween this gauge and that at Lai.
2.        Flows.  Probable average monthly flows were calculated from the
daily flow records and are shown below (July to June):
Probability
of                                  Flow m3/sec
Exceedence    J      A      S     0     N      D     J    F    M    A    M    J
0.25      589  1,247  2,225 1,967 635   245   155  101   71   74  118  163
0.50      508  1,068  1,981 1,436 482   197   118   83   59   60   90  152
n.75      380    987  1,791 1,290 429   170   108   76   54   55   80  131
0.95      305    785  1,482 1,030 290   142    83   58   41   42   60   95
3.        The peak flood occurs between the end of August and mid-October, but
for 70% of the time the peak occurs between the end of the first decade in
September and the end of the first decade in October, i.e., September 10 -
October 10. Based on 22 years of observations, flood flows, for different
frequencies, are as follows:
1/   ORSTOM - Hydrological Service.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Frequency               Flood Peak           Water Level at Lai
(Years)                (m3/sec)               (El. above MSL)
10                   3,380                      356.18
20                    3,600                     356.33
50                    3,840                     356.39
100                   4,010                      356.42
4.        V.1ater Levels and Water Supply.  The observations at Lai have enabled
water levels at 10 day intervals to be calculated for different probabilities
of exceedence.  Thus probable dates at which given water levels would be
attained at t:he intake have been predicted, as well as the dates at which
given flows can be expected in the main canal.
5.        Allowing filling time for the compensation basin, the dates at
which 3 m3/sec, 8 m3/sec and 17 m3/sec can be expected to be available are
shown below for different probabilities. 1/
WIater level        Flow in
intake         intake Canal                  Probability
E1. above MSL      m3/sec          0.50          0.80         0.95
351.35            3            Sept. 30      Aug.  9    Aug. 16
351.50            8            Aug.   3     Aug. 12   Aug. 19
351.75           17            Aug.   5     Aug. 16   Aug. 23
Even during an exceptionally bad season such as 1972, when the peak flood
was estimated as having an exceedence probability of 0.99, the polders would
have received their initial requirements although with a delay of 15 to 20
days. There wqould have been a shortage of water, however, at the end of the
irrigation period.
6.        It has been estimated that the water levels for the 10-year flood
and the 100-year flood would be at elevations 353.45 and 353.60 resp3ectively.
Flow in the main canal at high flood would be limited to about 55 m /sec by
the regulating effect of the road bridge masks (Annex 3, para 3).
7.        Water Demand.  Crop water requirements for rice have been calculated
by the modified Blaney-Criddle method. The calculation is shown by decades
in Table 1. The net consumptive use would be 7,400 m3lha.
1/   See Table 4 - 3 m3/sec is slightly in excess of the headgate requirement
at the end of the first decade in August. 8 m3/sec is the peak demand,
and 17 m3/sec is the maximum headgate demand anticipated for possible
second stage development.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
8.        In determining the irrigation duty, the 80% probable rainfall
(exceeded 4 years out of 5) was taken to be fully effective. Infiltration
was assumed to be 2 mm/day immediately after polder filling started, reducing
to 1 mm/day after 20 days. Conveyance losses in canals were taken at 20% for
the first 10 days, reducing to 15% thereafter. In block M3, with fully con-
trolled irrigation (see Annex 3, para. 10), an additional field loss of 20%
was assumed.  Tables 2 and 3 show the calculation of gross water requirements
and irrigation duties including all losses for the polder area as well as the
additional loss for block M3.
9.        The calculation of headgate reqairements for the main canal and the
average irrigation duties per decade are shoxn in Table 4.  The gross water
requirement, if rainfall is excluded, is 13,300 m3/ha for the polders and
14,200 m3/ha for block M3. Peak demand for the system is 2.0 1/sec/ha,
occurring in September, and this duty has been used for design purposes.
10.       IJater Ouality.  Water quality is excellent.  Samples taken from
the Logone gave the following results:
Sample No.
1       2       3          4
Conductivity mmohs/cm               less than 100
Ca+-+ mea/l           0.32    0.20    0.18    0.22
Mg++ meq/l            0.14    0.13    0.19    0.17
Ka+  meq/l            0.06    0.04    0.04    0.04
Na+  meq/l            0.53    0.29    0.30    0.31
SAR                   1.10    0.70    0.60    0.70
11.       Downstream Effects and the Logone Waters Agreement.  It has been
estimated that, under present conditions a flood of 175 m3/sec (100-year
flood) would overflow the road in the vicinity of Sategui. After construc-
tion of the project, 55 m3/sec would be abstracted at the intake at high
flood and, if the remainder of the 175 m3/sec were confined to the river,
the flood flow downstream of Sategui would be increased by 120 m3/sec.  The
effect of this additional flow on water levels downstream, above that pre-
sently expected during the 100-year flood, has been calculated by the con-
sultants: an increase of less than 5 cm at Ere and less than 8 cm at Bongor.
The increase in flood flow downstream of Sategui would actually be less than
120 m3/sec, since additional water would be abstracted for flooding the
Sategui-Deressia plain outside the polders for the traditional rice cultiva-
tion in the area. Therefore the effects of the project water levels at Ere
and Bongor would be well within the limits laid down in the Logone Waters
Agreement between Chad and Cameroon.



AMU  5
Page 4
waj* I - ConaiBtive Use
Calrlatad by Modified Ban ddl  Method
J3y            Augut-              Sept.          Oct.
1     2    3    1       2    3      1    2      3    1      2
xoth3' perotage
of daehours   8.9   8.9  8.9  8.7   8.7   8.7  8.3   8.3   8.3   8.2   823
MS#- °P. C           26.2  25.8  25.5  25.5  25.5  25.5  25.5  25.6  26.0  26.5  26.9
OF      79.0  78.5  78.0  78.0  78.0  78.0  78.0  78.2  78.8  79.7  80.4
- __           7.04  6.98 6.95  6.78  6.78  6.78  6.47  6.50  6.54  6.61  6.6~
100
Crop coeff. Xc       1.0   1.0  1.1   1.2   1.2  1.2  1.2   1.2  1.2  1.0  1.0
CliAtic ooff. It   1.05  1.05  1.04  1.04  1.04  1.04  1.04  1.04  1.05  1.07  1.09
10 day peclod- in.   2.47  2.i5  2.65  2.82  2.82  2.82  2.69  2.70  2.77  2.36  2.40
63   63    68    72   72   72   69   69   71    60   61
Table 2 - Polder area water deand
Jul            August              Sept.          Oct.
u3A  1  2    3    1     2    3    1       2    3    1       2
.t;   use  630   630   660   720   720  730  690  690   710  600  610
80 % rainfaL3/ha   245  420  425  540  495  630  420  435   205   120    -
iliatiLz- s3/    -           -    -   200  150   100  10   10   100    -    -
I±LinZ       m3/         -        _   225  730  1330  1330    -    _    _    _
aeq  3, ~ -   -    -   605  11o5  i.)20  1700   355  605  480   610
-  - -   760  1300  t790  2000  420   710   570   720
G-  0 i88 -1 .50 2.07  2.31  0.49 0.82  O.66 0.83
.zlr  Vu#r, i ecA



Azz 5
Page 5
Table 3 - Block 1M3, Water Deiand
July            August          Septe9ber        Oct.
1     2    3      1     2     3     1     2    3      1     2
Conaumptive use i3/ha      630   630   680   720   72O   720   690   690   710   600  61C
80% rainfall   r3/ha       245  420   425   540  495   630   420  435   205   129    -
Infiltratim c I3/ha         -     -     -     -   200   150   100   1oo   100   ioo    -
Filling         a 3/ha      -     -     -     -   750   750    -      -      -
Net Irr. Req.   3 /ha       -     -     -     -  1175   990   370   355  605   580   61C
Gross Irr. Req. M3/ha-   -        -     -     -   i840  1460  540   520   890   850  90C
Irr. duty       1/3.¢/a    -      -     -     -  2.13  1.69  0.63  0.60  1.03  0.98  1.04
Tabie 4 -Headgate R.QuzirmnaIt at the m2takce
JuJj           August           September        Qct.
1     2    3    1      2    3      1     2    3      1     2
3200 ha polder area
frigation dutyr 1/eec/ha    -     -     -  0.88  1.50  2.07  2.31  0.49  0.82  0.66  0.83
Headgate req.  3/c¢         -     -     -  2.8  4.8   6.6   7.4   1.6   2.6  2.1   2.7
650 ha Block 113
Irrigation dtv 1/eec/ha    -     -          -   2.13  1.69  0.63  0.60  1.03  0.98  1.04
Headgate req.  -3/8               -          -   1.4  1.1   0.4   0.4   0.7   0.6   0.7
Total headgate req.
-   3/uec    -     _     -   2.8  6.2   7.7   7.8  2.0   3.3   2.7   3.4
Av. Irr. duty
1/sec/ha                    -  0.7   1.6   2.0   2.0   0.5  0.9   0.7   0.9
/ Caual losses an betore. Field irrigation efficimicy 0.80






ANNE 6
Table 1
CHAD
SAMGUI-DEBESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
ITEM                                            -----        CFAF Million ------------                   ---     ---$WDOO-~--         --------    1          Foreign
Local          Foreign           Total                  Local          Foreign            Total            Exchange
TO BE FINANCED BY IDA
Irrigation Works
Intake Works                                                64               135              199                   245             521               766                68
Mande Polder                                                92               188              280                    355            721             1,076                 67
Deressia Polder                                             95               194              289                   367             745            1_112                 67
Sub-total                                              251                517              768                   967           1,987             2,954                67
Roads
Polder Ares                                                 79               184              263                    304            708             1,012                70
Lai-Banga                                                   28                66               94                    108            253               361                 70
Sub-total                                              107                250              357                   412             961             1,373                70
Agricultural Station
Irrigation Works  /                                         24                48               72                    91             186               277                67
Management Services
Management Conaultants                                      48               111              159                    184            428               612                70
Second Stage Studies
(Agricultural Component)                                     5                22               27                    21              83               104                80
Cont ingencies1
Physical  1/                                                38                82              120                    146                               461               68
frice      2/                                              174               262              436                    671          I,                1.677                60
Sub-total                                              212                344              556                   817           1,321             2,138                62
IDA TOTAL                                              647             1.292            1 939                  2 492          4 966                458                67
TO BE FINANCED BY ADF
suildings
Agricultural Station                                        21                12               33                     81             45                126                36
Rice Mill                                                   21                30               51                     83             114               197                58
Field Storage                                               32                47               79                    121            182               303                60
Management Services                                         51                52              103                    198             199               397                50
Sub-total                                              125               141              266                    483             540             1,023                53
Eq.upment        /
Rice Mill                                                    8                62               70                     29            239               268                89
Operation and Maintenance                                    1                24               25                      5              90                95                95
Far.   Machinery Z                                           1                18               19                      4             70                 74                94
Vehicles                                                     2                39               41                      8            149               157                 95
Workshop, Tools, Spares                                      1                21               22                     4              83                87                95
Sub-total                                                13              164              177                     50             631               681                93
Management Services
Local Personnel                                            130                -               130                   501              -                501                  -
Operating Costs                                             13                19               32                    49               73              122                 60
Sub-total                                              143                 19             162                    550              73               623                12
Engineering Consultants
Final Designs                                               10                90              100                     38            347               385                90
Supervis-on                                                 20                80              100                     77            307               384                80
Sub-total                                               30                170             200                    115             654               769                85
Second Stage Studies                                            6                24               30                     23              92               115                80
(Engineering Component)
Contingeoc.es
Price  2/                                                   69               112              181                   264             432               696                62
ADF TOTAL                                              386               630            14016                  1,485           2.422             3.907                62
IDA AND ADF GENERAL TOTAL                            1                 1922             2.955                  39777                           11 365                 65
TO BE FINANCED BY GOVERNMENT
Short and mediom term
Agricultural Credit                                         10                 8               18                     38              31               69                45
Paddy Purchases                                            112                 -              112                   431                -              431
Sub-total                                              122                  8             130                    469              31               500                 6
Working Capital                                                30                  -              30                    115                               115                 -
GOVERNMENT TOTAL                                       152                  8              160                   584              31               615                 5
GRAND TOTAL                                          1  185                            _'& 3115                4 561           7 419            11.980                62
1/ 107. on irrigation works and roads only.
2/  for civil works (irrigation, roads, buildings):  12X in 1974; 10T in 1975 and 8% p.a. frm 1976 to 1979
for all other items:  9% in 1974; 7% in 1975;  57. from  1976 to 1979
/  Rounded figures.






A!',PEX 7
Table 1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATI0Oi PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA and AD?
Financed Expenditure
---------------------- Fiscal Year ------------------
ITE,IS               74      75     76       77       78        79               TOTAL
----------------------in CFAF million----------------------------
FTNANCMD BY IDA
Irrigation works           -      452    316                                            768
Roads                      -      184    173                                            357
Works and Irrigation
Station                  -       72                                                    72
Management Consultants    -         16     38     54        44        7                 159
Second Stage Study                         18      5        4                            27
(agricultural component)
Contingencies
Quantities  /              -       71      49                                           120
Price                      -      194    203      18       18         3                 436
TOTAL IDA            -      989    797      77       66       10               1,939
FI;JANCED BY ADF
Buildings                  -      185      81                                           266
Equipment                  -        56    103     18                                    177
31anagement Services       -        10     31     43        45       33                 162
Consultants Engineers    100       42      47     11                                    200
Second Stage Study         -               20      5         5                           30
(engineering component)
Contingencies
Price  2I                           55     72     22        18       14                 181
TOTAL AD?          100      348    354      99       68        47              1,016
GRA-D TOTAL         100   1,337  1,151    176       134        57              2,55
],/ 10% on irrigation works and roads only.
j  for civil works (irrigation, roads, buiLdings):  12% in 1974; 10% in 1975 and 8% p.a.
from 1976 to 1979.
For all other items:  9% in 1974; 7% in 1975; 5% from 1976 to 1979.



AN,=EX 7
Table 2
CHAD
SATEGUI-REESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA and ADF
Financed Expenditure
--_------------------ Fiscal Year ------------------------------
ITES                74       75       76        77       78        79              TOTAL
---------------------- in US$ thousands--------------------------
FINIANCED BY IDA
Irrigation works          -    1,739       1,215                                         2,954
Roads                      -      708        665                                         1,373
Works and Irrigation
Station                 -       277                                                      277
Management Consultants   -         62        146      208      169       27                612
Second Stage Study                            69      116                                  104
(agricultural cmnponent)
Contingencies
Quantities  j             -      273        188                                           461
Price                     -      7 744      781       70       70       12              1,677
TOTAL IDA          -    3,03       3,06L      297      255       39              7,i58
FIM,A\jCED BY ADF
Buildings                -       712        311                                         1,023
Equipment                -       215        397      69                                   681
Management Services       -       38        119     165       173      127                623
Consultants Engineers  384       162        181      42                                   769
Second Stage Study                           77      19        19                         115
(engineering component)
Contingencies
Price   /               -        212        277      85        69                         696
TOTAL ADF        3      1,339      1,362      380      261      181              3,907
GRAk;  TOTAL            L1         "2Z        677      516      220             11,365
j   10% on irrigation works and roads only.
g/  for civil works (irrigation, roads, buildings):  12% in 1974; 10% in 1975 and 8% p.a. fram
1976 to 1979
For all other items:  9% in 1974; 7% in 1975; 5% from 1976 to 1979.



ANNEX 7
Table 3
CHAD
SATEGUI -DEHESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
IDA Yiscl I'eir and                                Cuinulative Disbursement at
Ier.mester                                          End of Semester
(U2S$' 000)
197 L
2 L-id
Ist                                                      1,200
2nd                                                      3,300
1976
1st                                                      4,100
2nd                                                      6,000
lst                                                      6,800
2nd                                                      7,000
i _1,   63
1st                                                      7,100
2nid                                                     7,400
1979
1st                                                      7,450
2nd                                                      7 500






ANK'EX 6
Table 1
SATEGUI-DEI2RSSI. IRRItG[ATID P, OJCT
Liso 0C Equipnie
UCnit Price               C-rand
Quantitr    Delivered        Total     Total
Lai
CFAPF '000       CFAF million
Rice `lilling Equipment                            70,000                   70.0
Plant
Diesel engined pump 200 1/sec   4             1,100         4.4
Grader 120 hp                     1          11,200        1.2
loader  85 hp                     1           9,l:Q         9.2        25.0
Fa rm. ach7i,,ery
';T1heel tractor 65 hp            4           2,110         8.4
Trailers                          2             520         1.0
Disc. plough (medium)             1             470          .5
Disc. Harrow (medium)             1             360          .4
T'hreshers 1.5 tons/hour                                    8 1,120  8.9  19.0
_ehicl es
Trucks 7 tons                     7           3,430        24.0
Trucks 3 1/2 tons                 2           1,560         3.1
Sedan cars                        2           1,170         2.3
Four-Wheel-Drive                  2           1,820         3.6
Small cars                       10             680         6.8
Yotorbike                        10               65          .7
3icycles                         14              16          .2        41.0
.or kah
Equipment                                                   7.2
Tools                                                       2.6
Spares  j                                                  12.6        22.0
TOTAL    177.0
1/  l o)'f of cost of plant, machinery and vehicles.






ANNEX 9
Page 1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
1.        Engineering Consultants.  The consulting engineering firm would
work under the general direction of the Genie Rural of MTPAT. The con-
sultant would, nevertheless, take full responsibility for the adequacy and
quality of all design and supervision services as described below. In this
regard he would assure himself of the adequacy of surveys, investigations
and designs already carried out, and on which he would have to base his work.
2.        The scope of the Consultants' work would include:
(a) Additional hydrological surveys during three flood seasons to
complete the work carried out during the feasibility study
and to provide the necessary data for the second stage studies.
(b)  Completion of 1:10,000 photogranmetric mapping of about
25,000 ha of the Sategui-Deressia plain, and mapping of about
6,000 ha at a scale of 1:4,000 from existing photography and
ground control.
(c) Execution of final designs and bills of quantities to permit
programming, setting out, and construction of the works. The
consultant would collaborate with the consulting engineer
appointed by FED for the Lai-Bongor road project in carrying
out this part of his work.
(d) Preparation of tender documents for the rice mill machinery and
assistance to OMVSD in evaluation of all bids and award of
contracts.
(e) Technical supervision of all construction works including
making recommendations to OMVSD regarding the acceptance of
completed works.
(f)  Progress reports as required by IDA and certification of all
withdrawal applications from the credit account for works
supervised by the contractors.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
3.        Management Consultants.  The management consulting firm would
provide personnel, detailed below, who will be seconded to OMVSD to assist in
the development of the Sategui-Deressia project. The consultant would take
full responsibility for all management, accounting, and extension activities
and for operation and maintenance of project works during the project implemen-
tation period.
4.        The following personnel will be required for management services:
Technical Director, to outline the annual plan of operation in
agreement with the general Project Director, prepare the project
budget, control expenditure, and to approve appointment of key
personnel to the project staff.
Accountant, to be responsible for project accounts.
Extension Agronomist, to organize and control the project's
agricultural service and to be responsible for the introduction
of improved agricultural practices, and who will organize the
supply of agricultural credit and farm inputs.
Irrigation Engineer, to draw up a water delivery schedule and to
plan and subsequently implement the operation and maintenance of
the project's irrigation and drainage systems.
The consultant will also provide specialists on a short-term basis as needed.
5.        A Research Agronomist supplied by a research agency such as IITA
or IPAT would be responsible for the management of the Boumo Station. Pro-
posed activities are described in Annex 11.
6.        All foreign experts would, as an essential part of their services,
train and guide counterpart professional and technical personnel, recruited
locally by OMVSD, with the objectives of enabling these counterpart staff to
progressively assume management responsibilities during project implementation.
Specific provisions would be included in the consultants' contracts describ-
ing the in-service training to be provided to local personnel. methods for
evaluating such training and a program for Chadianization of management which
would be reviewed annually. The consultants' team will also assist in prepara-
tion of the feasibility study for a second phase project as described in
Annex 4.
7.        Time Schedule and Personnel.  The services described above would
be provided between July 1973 and December 1978. Studies, surveys and final
designs would be completed by June 1974. Tender documents would be completed,
ready for issue, in November 1973, and the tender would be awarded in June
1974 so that construction could start in December 1974. Consultants' personnel
would he employed on the project according to the following schedule:



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Period                   Number
No.  From ...... To        ..               of
Man months
1. Engineering Consultants
Chief Engineer              1    June      1973 to August  1976          7
Ilydrologist                1    June      1973 to June    1975         12
Design Engineer             1    June      1973 to June    1974         16
Supervision Engineer        1    Nov.      1974 to August  1976         22
Assistant Engineer          1    Nov.      1974 to August  1976         22
Surveyor                    2    June      1973 to August  1976         22
101
Mid-level technicians       5    June      1973 to August  1976         70
2. Management Consultants
Technical Director          1    January 1975  to December1978          48
Accountant                  1    January 1975  to December1977          36
Senior Extension Special-
ist                      1    January 1975  to June    1978          42
Operation and Mfaintenance
Irrigation Engineer      1    July    1976  to December1977           18
Research Agronomist /1    1    April 1 1975  to March   1978            3k
Short Term Specialists                                                  12
192
3. To be coni-racted on an
individual basis
Workshop Mechanic           1    January 1976  to December1977          24
Rice Mill Manager           1    April   1975  to June    1979          51
75
/1   To be supplied by TITTA or IRAT.






AI.'-YEX 10
Table  1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Management Services Excpenditures
Unit Cost and Scheduled Development
Unit Cost                        With Project
(CFAF 'OOO/year) FY  197             1977   1978    1979 
---                 Numbers       -------------
Project .lanagement
General Director                      2,200            1        1      1       1      1        i
Technical Director (F)               11,130            1        1       1      1   (1/2 year) -
Technical Director                    1,270            -        -      -  (1/2 year) 1         1
Chief Accountant (F)                  6,600            1        1       1  (1/2 year) -
Accountant                               730            1       1       1      1       1       1
Accounting Assistant                     450            -       -       -  (1/2 year) 1        1
Secretaries and Clerks                   180            4       4       4      4       4       4
Extension Service
Senior Extension Officer (F)          8,200             1       1       1      1       _
Extension Officers                    1,270             2       2       2      2       2       2
Technical Assistants                    640            6        6       6      6       6       6
Field Workers                           140           30       30     30      30      30      30
Operation and  flaintenance
Operation and haintenance
Engineer (i')                     7,750            -        -      1  (1/2 year) -         -
Irrigation Engineer                   1,270            -                1     1      1        1
Technical Assistant                     550                             ,      1       1       1
Ditch Riders                            180                             6      6       6       6
Work Shop
Chief fechanic (F)                    2,350             -  (1/2 year)  1  (VgZ year) -
Kechanic                                640            -  (1/2 year)  1        1      1        1
Assistant ,echanic                       360            -       -       1      1       1       1
Operators, Drivers                      100            -       10     20      20      20      20
B cwfo Agricultural Station
.'[anager (Agronomist) (F)            7,750             -       1       1      1       -       _
Assistant lianager (Agronomist)       1,270             -       1       1      1       1       1
Assistant Agronomist                    640             -       1       1      1       1       1
Rice  ['il  y
Manager (F)                           2,650             1       1       1      1       1       1
Assistant Manager                       640            1        1       1      1       1       1
Permanent Workers                         90           5       15     15      20      20      20
Seasonal workers                          90            5      10     10      20     20       20
Short term specialist (F)             10,850
V 1/2 FY only:  2/ End disbursement period:   / On individual contracts:
(F) = foreign expert.



AtNEX 10
Table 2
.3A2EGTJI-DERGSThA UR3GATIOT  PROJECT
Nlanager:enit Services Epenxitures
Schedule of Expenditures
(FAF mll 1ion)
Total over
Di sbursement
If   1974/75   75/76   76/77   77V73   78/79       Period
General  anaigement           11.4    22.2    22.2    19.8    11.7            87.3
Extensicl1 3ervirce           1o.1    20.3    20.3    20.3    12.3            83.3
')oerat.; en and
'aintenance                   -       0.6    11.1      7.2     3.3          22.2
T-ihrkshop                       -      3.8      8.0     6.6      5.2         23.6
Bouurio Agricultural
',tatit on                   lO.G    10.0    10.0    10.0      2.3          32.3
Riee :- il.l                   2.3      5.9     5.9      7.6     7.6          29.3
Short term Specialist           -       )    5  5.4                -          10.9
TOTAL               23.8    6.3    82.9               42.4        288.9
w  - A .        .          -



ANN'EX 11
Page 1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERFSSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services
1.        Organization.  Two ministries deal with agriculture:  Ministere
de Travaux Ptblic et de l'Amenagement du Territoire (MTPAT) and Ministere
d'Etat Charge de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage (MEAE). MAT is responsible
for special projects, such as irrigation; it supervises the Societe pour le
Developpement de la Prefecture du Lac (SODELAC) and the Societe pour le De-
veloppement du Bassin du Logone (SDBL), and is involved also in marketing
through the Fond d'Action et de Developpement Rural (FDAR). Service du
Genie Rural is an agency of MAT.
2.        MEAE is comprised of two Directorates:  Direction de Services de
l'Agriculture and Direction de l'Enseignement. Services has three Divisions:
Etudes Agronomiques, Production Agricole, and Statistique Agricole; it is
also responsible for the technical activities of Office National de Developpe-
ment Rural (ONDR) which is financially independent.  Divisioi  des Etudes
Agronomiques has a separate Service des Stations et Fermes, and Division de
la Production Agricole has three Services: Documentation, Etudes et Projets,
and Protection des Vegetaux.  The headquarters of the various directorates,
divisions and services are in N'Djamena, and there are branch offices of the
principal agencies at prefecture and sub-prefecture levels.
3.        Services.  ONDR provides agricultural extension services throughout
the country except for "Prefecture du Lac" and the rice growing areas. ONDR
concentrates on cotton, groundnut, and sorghum productions promoting the
use of animal drawn implements; distributing improved cotton, sorghum and
groundnut seed: operating demonstration farms; and organizing agricultural
credit. In its cotton operations, ONDR collaborates with Compagnie Francaise
pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT) which provides a wide range
of technical assistance for this crop. The Republic of China also helps in
agricultural extension and bases operators on its rice demonstration farms
at Fressou (Casier B - Bongor) and at Nya. As a general characteristic,
however, all agricultural extension work is hampered by insufficient finance
and a lack of experienced and trained manpower.
4.        In the principal rice growing areas, around Bongor, Lai and Kelo,
extension services have in the past been provided by semi-independent organi-
zations such as;Secteur Experimental de N4odernisation Agricole de Bongor (SEMAB)
and Secteur Experimental de Modernisation Agricole de Lai-Kelo (SEMALK). Due
to inefficient management and financial prohlems these agencies have been
largely ineffective and recently their extension activities have been taken
over by Direction de Service de l'Agriculture, and their rice marketing



ANNE X 11
Page 2
functions by FDAR. In the project area, extension services are provided to
about 1,900 farm units by 10 extension workers. The effectiveness of this
extension is slight due to the insufficient training of agents, problems of
access and lack of coordination and financial support. Consequently inputs,
such as improved seeds, fertilizers, and phythosanitary chemicals, are very
rarely used.
5.        Agricultural research and experiments in Chad are mainly carried
out on ad hoc basis. Cotton research is sophisticated and the responsibility
of the French "Institut de Recherches du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques"
(IRCT). Other agricultural research is mainly adaptive and concentrated on
the major food crops, millet and rice, and is aimed at producing precocious
and high yielding varieties. Due to lack of funds, this latter work has not
been very effective, and the most useful work on rice has been carried out
at the Chinese financed Staff Casier B station at Bongor.
6.        Since 1960 virtually no research has been carried out at the Boumo
agricultural station, the only experimental station in the project area.
From 1950 to 1960, the station was managed and financed by the French, and
fertilizer and pest control trials were conducted as well as a rice breeding
program. From 1960 to 1964 the station's annual budget was severely cut and
since 1964 virtually no funds have been made available. Consequently mainte-
nance of the station has virtually stopped and only 20 ha remain under cul-
tivation.
7.        Farm Inputs are channeled mainly through ONDR which is the largest
distributive agency for seeds, fertilizers, phytosanitary chemicals, and farm
implements.  In the 1971-72 season, about 6,000 tons of fertilizer and about
700,000 liters of plant protection chemicals were distributed for use on a
total registered cropped area of about 1.4 million ha, of which about 300,000
ha was cotton. Most of the fertilizer and all the chemicals were used for
cotton; thus fertilizer use on other crops is insignificant. For the project
area, fertilizer use in 1972 amounted to 7,500 kg, representing a fertilized
rice area of about 100 ha. Urea is the main fertilizer and the subsidized
price to the farmer is CFAF 2,500 per 100 kg, equivalent to USJ 24 per kg N.
8.        Agricultural credit, mostly for the purchase of fertilizers and
chemicals, is channeled through the ONDR. Credit finance is provided by
Banque de Developpement de Chad (BDT), which is itself funded by the Central
Bank. In the 1970-71 season about 10% of the total credit of CFAF 227 million
was used for the purchase of carts, plows and hoes, and the remainder for
fertilizer and pesticides; and most of the credit was disbursed. In the proj-
ect area, the volume of agricultural credit furnished through official re-
sources is insignificant if not zero. Savings or borrowing from friends and
relatives is the normal way to obtain the means to buy items such as draft
animals, agricultural implements and carts. Rice farmers have possibilitlej
of saving.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
9.        Improvements to be introduced under the Prolect.  OMVSD would pro-
vide an agricultural extension service for the project area. Activity would
begin immediately OMVSD is established, and the service would be headed by
an expatriate expert for a period of 3-1/2 years. Local counterparts would
comprise two university graduates as extension officers, and six extension
assistants trained at the local agricultural college. This small group,
assisted by 30 field workers, acts mainly through selected key farmers who
would serve to demonstrate improved techniques to their neighbors.
10.       The 200 ha Boumo agricultural station would functior both as a
rice seed multiplication farm (80 ha) aid an experimental station (20 ha).
A further 100 ha would be allocated to commercial type trials on double-
cropping. Seed multiplication activities would start with the 1973 wet
season. The 180 ha devoted to seed multiplication and double-cropping would
be cultivated with an intensity of about 150% and would produce about 800
tons of paddy equivalent to an average yield of 2.9 t/ha.
11.       The agricultural experiment activities would concentrate on a
high-volume introduction and reselection program, and on fertilizer use and
pest and disease control.  Trials would also be conducted on weed control,
since weeding is a serious bottleneck for further rice intensification; small
machinery and suitable farm implements might be usefully investigated.
12.       A foreign expert attached to O0MVSD and preferably fully backed by
reknowned rice experiment stations like IITA or IRAT wqould prepare a program
of activities. This propram would be drawn up in collaboration with and
sponsored by one of the mentioned stations. Two local counterparts and
short-term experts would strengthen the management of Boumo agricultural
station. Beginning with the wet season 1978 (i.e. three years after its
start), the station would operate at full capacity and the foreign expert
should then he replaced by a local manager.






ANNEX 12
Table 1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Costs
Schedule of Expenditure 1/                         1979 and
following
Fy  1974    1975      1976     1977      1978      years
--------- CFAF millions -------------------
Plant
Fuel and Lubricants          -         -      0.78     4.29      4.29        4.29
Repairs and Ins.urance       -         -      o.46     2.72      2.72        2.72
Amortization Allowance       -         -      0.32     2.30      2.30         2.30
Vehicles for Operation and
Maintenance Staff  3/
Fuel and Lubricants          -         -      0.14     O.60      0.60        0.60
Repairs and Insurance        -         -      0.13     O.47      0.47        0.47
Amortization Allowance       -         -      0.18     0.81      0.81        0.81
Salaries for Operation and
liaintenance Staff 1/
Foreign                      _        _        -       9.64      4.78         -
Local                        -         -      1.32     4.26      4.66        4.66
Total        -         -      3.33    25.09    20.63         15.72
/ The above estimate was prepared to assess the annual charges resulting from operation
and maintenance which would have to be recovered -frcn project beneficiaires. These
costs form part of the overall recurrent costs of OMVSD and are not itemized as such
in the economic and financial analysis.  They have been calculated tax included since
they would incurred after credit disbursement.
/ Plant allocated to operation and maintenance consists of: one 200 1/sec pump, one
120 hp grader, one 85 hp loader and one 3 1/2 ton truck (See Annex 8).
/ Vehicles for operation and maintenance staff comprise: one four wheel drive
vehicle, one snall car, one motorcycle and six bicycles (See Annex 8).
/ Personnel for operation and imaintenance includes one Operation and tlaintenance
engineer (foreign) one irrigation engineer, one technical assistant, six ditch
riders and five driver/operators. The cost of workshop time for plant and vehicle
maintenance has been included in the respective items for "Repairs and Insurance".






A,NNEX 13
Page 1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present and Projected Crop Production
1.        Present Crop Production.  The project area can support production
only in the wet season when rice is groan in flooded areas, and vegetables
on the higher ground around the villages. In the dry season, land lies idle
for lack of water. Rice is the mainstay of the project area and with the
uncontrolled flood water of the Logone River is grown in water depths of up
to 1.20 m. In general, these water conditions are unfavorable for either the
short strawed rice varieties, or for the real floating rice varieties. Cur-
rentlv three rice varieties are grown: Puang Ngeon (90-day maturity period
with about 100 cm length) for areas with shallow water depth: D 52-37 (120-
day maturity period and 120 cm length) for water depths of about 60 cm; and
Bentoubala B (140-day maturity period and 150 cm tall) for areas with the
same water depth as for D 52-37 but where the water stands longer in the
fields.
2.        A 10 year duration system of shifting cultivation is practiced.
Soil preparation is carried out in June, by oxdrawn implements, after the
rains have sufficiently moistened the soil. Preparation consists of plowing
and harrowing and it is estimated that a pair of oxen can prepare one hectare
in three days. Between the end of June and mid-July, the rice is sown in
rows by hand at a seed rate of about 40 kg/ha. Sowing is done mostly by
women, and about six women-days are needed per hectare. Distribution of
certified rice seed virtually stopped after 1965 and now most farmers use
their own seed which is of inferior quality. Weed growth is abundant, and
weeding by hand takes place in the third and sixth weeks after seeding, to
suppress both weed growth and wild rice. Weeding takes an estimated 35
mandays/ha and is considered the bottleneck to the extension of the average
family holding. November and December are the harvest months. I4arvest takes
23 mandays/ha, the crop being cut with sickles. Generally some pre-harvesting
of matuired ears for daily consumption takes place. Soon after harvest, the
crop is threshed by hand on a dirt or wood floor by beating with a stick.
The straw is picked out manually, and the chaff is separated by winnowing.
Paddy is then transported to the village either by cart or bv carrying on
the back. Part is sold directly as paddy. Part is stocked at home and
pounded as required in a hollowed-out log with a stick until the hulls and
bran are removed, and followed by winnowing.  Home-pounding is either to
produce rice for home consumption or for sale outside official marketing
channels.  (Annex 14).



ANNEX 13
Page 2
3.        Annual estimates of rice areas and production exist only for years
since 1966, and the reliability of this data is debatable as the estimates
have never been checked by yield measurements and surveys. In estimating
current paddy yields in the project area, it is necessary to take account
of the area's presently unfavorable growing conditions - insufficient water,
heavy competition with weeds, and excessive flooding particularly in the
last weeks of August (floods rising with speeds of 3 to 8 cm per day to
heights of 50 to 60 cm) which appears to occur annually. Furthermore, ex-
cessive water depth in the lower parts of the project area hamper tillering
and cause lodging of the crop when the water recedes. These constraints are
compounded by cultivation techniques used and the lack of fertilizer use and
pest control. Given the foregoing, it is doubtful whether the project area
without some degree of water control could produce more than 1 t/ha on aver-
age, and the current average paddy yield is estimated at 0.9 t/ha. Total
production is estimated at approximately 7,800 tons. Allowing for a slight
improvement of 1% per year in yields "without" the project, yields and pro-
duction in 1982 would be 1.0 t/ha and 8,300 tons respectively.
4.        Future Crop Production.  Under the project, an area of approxirtmately
4,000 ha will be empoldered and provided with an irrigation system. Under
these improved conditions irrigation applications can be controlled. Moreover,
parts of the polder area (650 ha) could be provided with drainage and land
levelling, so that a water level of up to 30 cm can be maintained throughout
the growing period. On other parts of the polder area, the natural topography
will determine the water depth during flooding; and here the crop may still
have to withstand water depths varying from 30 to 60 cm.
5.        Iligh yielding varieties (HYV) are not grown in the nroject area.
The Chinese agricultural station in Bongor is working with Taiwan varieties,
and also IRRI varieties; IR 22 is their latest introduction. Since these
varieties can only be grown profitably in flooded areas with good water con-
trol, thev are confined to agriculture stations for the time being: however,
they may be introduced in the future in areas of the project where water
depths are not deeper than 30 cm. With good soil preparation and proper
inputs, these varieties may be estimated to yield 2.9 t/ha. The majority of
the polder area will have lower yields (2.4 t/ha). To increase production,
farmers will have to take advantage of the possibilities of better soil pre-
paration through increased use of draft animals, certified seed, better timing
of irrigation applications, eliminating losses caused by drowning, and in-
creased use of fertilizers. All these aspects may result in an average yield
for the 4,000 ha polder area of 2.5 t/ha.
6.        Outside the polder area, yields may also increase once the project
is realized through the use of selected seeds, fertilizers, and phytosanitary
chemicals. The use of these inputs will be promoted by an extension service
that will be trained to do the Job and have more working facilities than are
now available. Projected average yields, nine years after the project has
started, may be conservativelv estimated at 1.4. t/ha. Cropped areas, yields
and production, with and without the project, are shown in Table 1.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
7.        Labor Requirements.  On an average, 1 ha of rice needs about 90
mandays of which three are for soil preparation, six for sowing, 35 for
weeding, 23 for harvesting, 20 for threshing and two to three days for trans-
port. Since land is not in short supply, the size of most farms is limited
by the availability of labor within the family. In the project area, the
average farm size is 4.5 ha.
8.        It is not expected that the project works and use of HYV on a
limited scale will significantly change labor requirements per hectare.
However, labor input per ton of paddy, which is a better yardstick for West
African countries, will be lower when the project has reached its full
development.
9.        New Cultivation Practices.  Weeding places a heavy stress on family
labor and is a bottleneck. In more sophisticated cultivation systems weed
control is achieved through the use of selective herbicides, the practice of
transplanting, and appropriate water control. For the peculiar conditions of
the project area, with its limited water control in the future, weed control
should be carried out before the annual innundation. Selective herbicides
that destroy only the wild rice species, without killing the good rice, are
not yet available. Transplanting is an excellent way to make weeding unneces-
sary or at least easier, and moreover to induce higher yields; but it is
unlikely to become a common practice because of its high labor-intensive
character, unless the average size of the rice exploitation unit could be
brought back from 4 ha to 1 - 2 ha. Labor involved in weeding would be less
if small mechanical apparatus could be used, in combination with a more in-
tensive soil preparation. Trials for this purpose should be carried out at
the Boumo agricultural station. On this station, double-cropping should also
be tried out. Though this method is labor intensive, and is also a high-cost
system involving levelled land, accurate water control, and pumping in the
dry season, so much is at stake in Chad that it is worth trying.






CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cropped Areas, Yields, and Production
(1)       (2)       (3)       (4)       (5)        (6)        (7)        (8)       (9)
FY       1974       127T      1976     1977       1978       1979       1980      19.81     1982
With Project
Croped Area             ha
Polder Y              n       1,800      1,800    2,170    2,980       3J,450     3,730      3,950    4I100    4,100
Outside Polder        "       6,850      6,850     6,850    6,850      6,850      6,850      6,850      6,850     6,850
Yields (paddy)          tons/ha
Folder                 n      0.90       0.90      1.05      1.40      1.70       1.96       2.15       2.40      2.50
Outside Polder                0.90       0.90      0.90      1.00      1.15       1.20       1.30       1.35      1.40
Production (paddy)      tons
Polder                n       1,620      1,620     2,279    4,172      5,865      7,311      8,493      9,840    10,250
Outside Polder                6,165      6,165    6,165    6,850       7,878      8,220      89905      9,248    9,590
Estimated total
production with
project                        7,785     7,785    8,444   11,022      13,743    15,531    17,398       19,088    19,840
Total Production
without Project                7,785     7,785    7,862    7,941       8,020      8,101      8,182      8,263     8,346
Incremental Production  n-                   -         582    3,081      5,723      7,430      9,216    10,825   11,494
/ Including Agricultural station in Boumo equivalent to 200 ha of fanmerst cultivation.






ANNEX 14
Page 1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DRESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rice Marketing & Prices
1.        Supply and Demand.  Macroeconomic data on rice production and
consumption in Chad are scarce, inaccurate, and often conflicting. However
it appears that present annual rice consumption averages 25,000 tons, and
that consumption will continue to increase in line with the growth trend of
4% per annum experienced between 1963 and 1968. Hence, at full development of
the project (1982), domestic rice consumption should be about 40,000 tons.
Data on imports are totally unavailable, but it appears that no significant
quantities of rice are currently imported.
2.        Rice consumption in Chad fluctuates widely with increments in the
overall cereal supply which currently averages about 1 million tons annually.
Relatively small variations in millet and sorghum yields can thus have a
great impact on rice demand and consequently on marketing and prices.
3.        Despite this short-term phenomenon, there is in Chad, as in most
African countries, a long-term shift in the consumption pattern from sorghum
and millet to rice in particular,due to the case of preparing the latter for
meals. This shift is leading to a steady and continuous growth in rice
consumption particularly in urban centers but also in rural areas close to
production zones. More information on rice and overall cereal consumption
will become available with the results of a survey of market prospects for
cereals and rice in Chad being undertaken by a UN team. These results are
expected to be available in 1974 and the team's terms of reference indicate
that the quality of the information should be good.
4.        As no other major rice project is foreseen in Chad, in the near
future, incremental project rice production of about 8,000 tons annually by
1982 should find an easy market given the anticipated growth in domestic
demand.
5.        Marketing. There are three mills in Chad and together they handle
5,000 to 6,000 tons of paddy annually producing 3,500 to 4,000 tons of rice,
or 15% of domestic consumption. FDAR owns and operates two of the mills
(Bongor and Lai) and indirectly controls the third (Kelo). The mills buy
paddy directly from producers and sell rice to private dealers of whom there
are several. Both transactions are governed by official prices. FDAR's
grain stabilization department buys somewhat less than 1,000 tons of rice
each year from the mills and sells this at official retail prices, mainly
in N'Djamena.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
6.        The remainder of paddy production is processed at the farm level as
there is no other purchaser of paddy than FDAR. This is usually by hand-pounding
which is a slow process, therefore unlikely to expand to quantities far above the
present level. Hand-pounded rice is either retained for family consomption or
marketed through unofficial channels; these include selling rice to neighboring
farmers, to small private dealers, or farmers themselves taking the rice to N'Dja-
mena for sale.
7.       OMVSD would market rice produced by its mill (8,000 tons, or an increment
of 6,200 tons           compared to present mill  production).  It is expected that
OMVSD would sell part to the grain stabilization department of FDAR, and that other
significant purchasers would be commercial corporations, private dealers, and public
agencies. Most transactions normally would be on an ex-mill basis; but the law
establishingOMVsD should allow it to transport rice for wholesaling transactions
at consumption centers.
8.        Transportation problems are not expected as construction of needed feeder
roads in the project area are included in project works. Also an all-weather road
between Lai and N'Djamena is to be built in the near future with FED finance. De-
tailed design work started    in October 1973, and construction is scheduled
for 1975-76. Until that date the existing road network would be adequate.
9.        There is neither paddy nor rice storage capacity in the project area.
FDAR and commercial operators have facilities in N'Djamena, being 2,000 tons and
about 1,500 tons respectively.
10.       Prices.  In November, 1973 the Ministry of Commerce raised the farmgate
price of paddy from CFAF 14/kg to CFAF 18/kg (US$.69/metric ton). Ex-mill prices
for rice are expected to increase by CFAF 6.15/kg, to cover the increase cost of
paddy (1kg paddy =0.65kg rice), for each category yielding the following prices:
1st quality CFAF         53.40/kg       -  US$205/ton
2nd quality CFAF         37.65/kg          US$145/ton
3rd quality CFAF         21.90/kg       =  us$ 84/ton
The comparative percentages of each quality, and weighted prices, are:
With Existing Mill      With Future Mill
1st quality                          46%                     60%
2nd quality                          46%                     38%
3rd quality                           8%                      2%
100%                    100%
weighted average price - CFAF 43.64/kg CFAF 46.79/kg
US$168/ton    US$  180/ton



ANNEX 14
Page 3
'1.       The farmers obtain higher prices for the paddy that they hand-pound.
Assuming 180 kg of paddy per 100 kg of rice, the equivalent farmgate value
ranges between CFAF 20 and CFAF 30/kg paddy (US$ 77 to US$ 115/ton). This value
includes the cost of hand-pounding, which in time terms is substantial; the
opportunity cost of the labor used for this task is difficult to quantify.
12.       Without the project, the appropriate substitute for the project's
incremental production would be imported rice. The Bank's Economics Department
forecasts a price of US$ 120/ton fob Rangoon in 1980 in terms of 1973 dollars
for the type of rice (40% broken) most   likely to be imported.  The cost of
insurance and freight to Douala is estimated at US$ 30/ton, and unloading, port
charges and importers margin at US$ 15/ton. Therefore, the price of rice imports
would average about US$ 165/ton cif Douala. This price is equivalent to CFAF
42,900/ton at the current exchange rate of U7S$ 1 = CFAF 260 and CFAF 47,850/ton
at a shadow exchange rate of US$ 1 - CFAF 290 that is believed to better represent
the true value of the CFAF in Chad. Transportation costs between Douala and
N'Djamena (2,000 km) were CFAF 26,100/ton of rice (US$1100/ton) before the recent
increases in petroleum prices, which will obviously have an impact on all trans-
portation costs. However, by 1980, the Cameroon railroad would reach N'Gaoundere
and the road between N'Gaoundere and Garoua would be asphalted. These improvements
would reduce the transportation cost 1/ from Douala and N'Djamena offsetting the
increases due to petroleum prices. Therefore, the estimate of CFAF 26,100/ton
will be maintained. Taking into account miscellaneous charges amounting to
CFAF 3,500/ton (US$13/ton), the price of imported rice in N'Djamena in 1980 is
estimated to be: CFAF 72 ,500/ton with the current exchange rate and CFAF 77,450/ton
with the assumed shadow exchange rate.
13.       Rice from the project area would incur transport charges to N'Djamena
and such charges have been deducted in calculating the economic farmgate value
of paddy. The calculation is as below:
1/ Reduction would be CFAF 3,300 between Belabo and N'Gaoundere and
1,300 between N'Gaoundere and Garoua, for a total of
CFAF 4,600 oi 18%.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
Current exchange rate       Shadow exchange rate
Price in N'Djamena           CFAF  72,500/ton rice        CFAF 77,450/ton of rice
Transportation Lai to
N'Djamena                           -400                         ,400
Ex-mill price (rice)          "    67, 100  "   "          "   72,050  "  "
Ex-mill price (paddy)        CFAF 43, 6l5/ton of paddy   CFAF 46,830/ton of paddy
Milling Cost                     4- 4v0OO   "                 - 0'kaO   "  "
By-products (bran)            "    +  700   " "    "       "      700  "
Economic Farmgate Value      CFAF 40,31/ton of paddy   CFAF 41.5.30/ton of paddy
14.       In the economic analysis of the project the rate of return has been
calculated using both farmgate values (see Annex 17). In the financial analysis
the farmgate price for paddy of CFAF 18/kg has been used. This price compares
with CFAF 20/kg in Cameroon, CFAF 25/kg in Senegal and CFAF equivalent 21/kg
in Ghana.
15.       In the economic analysis, twofarmgate rice prices have been used:
CFAF 40.3/kg, the import substitute value using the cuirrent
exchange rate, 4i.IS$ = CFAF 260)
CFAF 43.5/kg, the import substitute value using the shadow
exchange rate.
In the financial analysis two hypotheses have been considered:
(a) no increase in current ex-mill prices except those justified
by an improvement in the proportion of the better grades of
milled rice, and
(b) an annual increase of 2.1%, for years two through six, in the
ex-mill prices for each quality price, i.e. the increase needed
to ensure a sound and independent financial position for OMVSD
(see Annex 15, and para. 7.05 of main report).



ANNEX i4
Page 5
The average ex-mill nrices und'i hypotheses (a) an- -(b7) are -as folloe-
(a)                    (b)
Year 1                        CFAF   43.6/kg          CFAF   43.6/kg
US$  168/ton           Us$  168/-tau
Year 2                        CFAF   43.6/kg          CFAF   44.5/kg
us$  168/ton            US$  1 71 k(-
Year 3                        CFAF   43.6/kg          CFAF   45.4/kg
US$  168/ton            US$  175/ton
Year 4                        CFAF   44.7/kg          CFAF   47.6/kg
US$  172/ton            US$  183/ton
Year 5                        CFAF   45.7/kg          CFAF   49.9/kg
US$  176 /ton           US$  192 /ton
Year 6 and after              CFAF   46.8/kg          CFAF   52.4/kg
US$  180 /ton           US$  202 /ton






ANNEX 15
Page 1
TCHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Status of OMVSD
Explanation of Tables
1.        From a financial point of view OMVSD would have two main categories
of activities: (a) processing and marketing of paddy; and (b) agricultural
extension, and the operation and maintenance of the project irrigation system.
2.        Table 1 shows the basis for estimating the operating costs of
pcrchasing and processing paddy at CFAF 4,000/ton.
3.        Table 2 shows the operating accounts of OMVSD's rice mill.  The volume
of paddy to be milled is taken as total production less seed, auto-consumption,
and private marketing. 1/ The volume of paddy to be purchased is taken as the
total volume to be milled minus paddy collected by OMVSD from polder farmers
as the project levy (i.e, at no cost to OMVSD). Other assumptions are:
(a) Milling percentage (i.e. milled rice: paddy) is estimated at 65%
(b) Purchases and sales of paddy and rice are valued at the financial
prices given in Annex 14 (para. 14 and 15b).
(c) The financial margin of operating the rice mill is the difference
between the value of rice sold and the value of paddy purchased
plus mill operating costs.
4.        Table 3 covers OMVSD's other activities.  After year four, OMVSD,
with self-generated funds, would be able to take care of the replacement costs
for all equipment (vehicles, agricultural machinery, rice mill plant). After
year five, OMVSD would be able to pay the operating costs of extension and the
Operation and Maintenance of the irrigation network. The production costs of
the Boumo agricultural station are not included in the table as they would be
covered directly by the station's production. After year six, OMVSD would be
able to cover the costs of its own staff and thereafter external financing would
not be required. Table 3 shows that OMVSD's cumulative cash flow should be
positive at all times thereby allowing OMVSD to provide its own working capital
1/ It is assumed that such unofficial marketing, i.e. to private trade,
would increase from 1,500 to 3,000 t over the project development period.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
from self generated-funds and to fund paddy purchases and short-term credit
to farmers of regions. The cumulative cash balance averages CFAF 248 million
during years six through ten and reaches CFAF 383 million by year 20, CFAF 503
million by year 30, 623 million by year 40, and CFAF 743 in year 50.
5.         Table 4 shows the financial situation of OMVSD if ex-mill prices
were not raised from current level (see Annex 14 para. 15 assumption (a). In
that case, OMVSD's operating cash flow (cumulated) would remain negative
throughout the project life and the overall cash balance (annual) would be
negative each year after year 7.



ANNEX 15
Table
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis of OMVSD
Purchasing and Processing
(Operating Cost per ton of PadctyD
Purchasing:
Bags for paddy                            1,010
Transport (village to mill)                 240
Storage Maintenance                         100
Contingencies                               200
1,550
Processing:
Bags for milled rice                        655
Fuel for mill                               540
Bldg. Maintenance                            45
Plant Maintenance                           260
Contingencies                               300
1,800
Personnel                                        650
Total:                          4,000 CFAF/ton of paddy



CHAD
SATEGUL-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis of OMVSD
----- ----------_________---- Tons…------------                            CFAF       Tons          - CFAF million
Paddy               million
col-                Cost
Auto-      Pri-                  lected                of        Volume   Value       Mill    OMVSD
Total                con-       vate       Paddy      as Pro-  Paddy    Paddy           of        of       Oper-   Income
Prod-                sump-      Mar-       to be      ject      pur-       pur-2/      rice      rice 2/  ating3/ Milling
Year      uction    Seeds    tion 1/   keting    milled    levy    chased    chased    milled    sold                 costs      Levy) 4/
1        7,800       400      3,200      1,500      2,700         -     2,700         49       1,800       78         ll        - 4/
2        7,800       400      3,300      1,600      2,500         -     2,500         45       1,700        76        lO       21
3        8,400       400      3,400      1,800      2,800        100    2,700         49       1,800       82         11       22
4      11,000        500      3,500      2,000      5,000       400    4,600          83       3,200      152         20       49
5      13,700        600      3,600      2,200      7,300       600    6,700         121       4,700      235         29       85
6      15,500        600      3,800      2,400      8,700        700    8,000        144       5,700      299         35      120
7      17,400        700      3,900      2,600    10,200        900    9,300        167        6,600      346         41      138
8      19,000        700      4,000      2,800    11,500    1,000   10,500          189        7,400      388         46      153
9      19,800        700      4,100      3,000    12,000    1,000   11,000           198       7,800      409         48      163
10 to
50    19,800        700      4,100      3,000    12,000    1,000   11,000           198       7,800      409         48      163
1/ 350 kg paddy per capita.
2/ See Annex 14 for prices.
3/ As per table 1 of this Annex                                                                                                       M
4/ In year 1, the processing would be made bu FDAR's existing facilities. Therefore, thle
related margin is not shown here in OMVSD's income.



CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Analvsis of O0VSD
Cash Flow
CFAF million
°'*jisIt i n         m---          ---- OMVSD's Expenditures----------------------
Proceeds  Proceeds      Debt
Operating Cash            of       of     Repayment             Cash Balance
Polders    Milling              Recurrent Expenditures                    Investments          Flow                   IDA     ADF          to
Years        levv       margin        Replacement    Operation    Staff    Total                     Annual    Cumitulated      Credit   Loan      Government       Annual        Cummulated
1            -           -               -              -           -        -           100        -100          _100          -       100         -                -               -
2            -          21               -              -           -        -         1,326      -1,305        -1,405          978     348         -               +21              21
3            2          20               -              -           -        -         1,138      -1,116        -2,521          784     354         -               +20              41
4            7         42                -              -           -        -           175        -126        -2,647           76       99        -               +49              90
5           11         74                16             -           -        16          133         -54        -2,701           65       68        -               +69           +159
6           13         107               16             12          -        28           57         +35        -2,666           10      47         -               +92           +251
7           16         122               16             12          33       61          -            77        -2,589          -        -          90              -13             238
8           18         135               16             12          33       61          -            91        -2,498          -        -          90               +1             239
9           18         145               16             12          33       61          -           102        -2,396          -        -          90              +12             251
10           18         145               16             12          33       61          -           102        -2,294          -        -          90              +12             263
20           18         145               16             12          33       61          -           102        -1,274          -        -          90              +12             383
30           18         145                16            12          33       61          -            102         -254          -        -           90             +12             503
40           18         145                16            12          33       61          -            102         +766          -        -           90              +12            623
50           18         145                16            12          33       61          -            102       +1,786          -        -           90             +12             743



ANNEX 15
Table 4
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis of OMVSD
Effect of Retaining Present Ex-mill Prices (1)
CFAF million
Value      OMVSD net
of        income           Operating Cash                 Cash Balance
rice         from               Flow
Year       sold        Milling        Annual   Cumulated          Annual    Cumulated
1          78            -        -  100        -  100             -            -
2          74            19       -1,307       -1,407             19            19
3          78            18       -1,120       -2,527             18            37
4         143            40       -  135        -2,662            40            77
5         215            65       -   84        -2,746            49           126
6         267            88      +    3         -2,743            60           186
7         309           101      +   40         -2,703          - 50           136
8         346           111      +   49         -2,654          - 41            95
9         365           119      +   58         -2,596          - 32            63
10        365           119      +   58         -2,538          - 32            31
20        365           119      +   58         -1,958          - 32         - 289
30        365           119      +   58         -1,378          - 32        - 609
40        365           119      +   58         -  798          - 32         -929
50        365           119      +   58         -  218          - 32        -1,249
I/ See Annex 14 para. 15 assumption (a).



ANNEX 16
Page 1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Returns from Rice Growing and Rice Farm Budgets 1/
1.        Rice farm size and cultivation techniques are reasonably
homogenous throughout the Sategui-Deressia plain and basically there
is only one typical farm budget for the "without project" situation.
2.        With the project there would be three types of farm budgets:
a) for farms outside the polders; b) for farms within the empoldered
area; and c) would be for the technically more sophisticated M3 polder
block.
3.        The farmgate price for paddy employed in the budget is
CFAF 18/kg, and the subsidized fertilizer price CFAF 34.3/kg (compared
with an economic cost of CFAF 68.6/kg).
4.        In the following tables the four types of farm budgets are
compared.
1/ These budgets are for rice operations only; they take no account of
other production activities in which farm families may engage.






AN:4EX 16
Tabl e 1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ilet lncaies Per Ha F>rqm Rice Growing
Before Projet Levy
-------------------------  -------- With  Project--
Without      Outside         StandaFd           M3
Project      Polders         Polders          Folders
Seeds (CFAF 18/kg)
kg/ha                           40              60            80               80
CFAP/ha                           720          1,080         1,440            1,440
Fertilizers
k&a                                  0             30            50              150
Subsidized Cost (CFAF 34.3/kg)
CFAFPa                      0           1,030         1,7n5            5,lls
Non subsidized Cost (CPAF 68.6/kg)
ClAP/ha                 -          2,060          3,430           10,290
Hand Tools CFAF/ha                          300            300            300              300
Oxen 3/ CFAF/ha                             300            950         1,350             1,600
Pough ?/ CFAF/ha                            200            250            250              500
Threshing 2/' CFAFPa
Custom work on threshing                  -              -            800             1,000
Transport _/ CIAYPAa                        100            200            200              200
Total Production Cogt CFAF/ha
with subsidized fertilizers               1,620          3,810          6,o55           10,185
without subsidised fertliizerg            1,620          4,840          7,770           15,330
Yield tAia                                    0.9            1J4            2.4              2.9
Gross Inoome CFAFAha                     16,200         25,200        43,200            52,2Qo
(Paddyl price CPAF  18/kg)
met Income ClAFAa
(before project levy)
with subsidised fertilizers              14,580         21,390        37,145            42,015
without subaidised ferbilizers           14,580         20,360        35,430            36s870
It Assumes use of a pair of oxen for each two rice farms now, rising to one pair
for each farm at full development. The cost includes the wages of the cattle
attendant, and allows for amortization of the capital invested in the animals.
With project costs includes also CFAP 1,000/pair of oxen for veterinary
expenses and some supplementary feed.
2/ Allows one plough for two farme now, rising to one for each farm at full
development, investment amortizated at 5X over 10 years.
3/ Assumes that all farmers in polder area will have 40% of their harvest (1,200 kg/ha)
threshed by the 10 mechanical thresher. owned by CMVSD and rented out at a charge
of CPOA 1,000/ha. These threshers would work 45 days a year for 7 hours a day.
41 Assumes 600 kg/cart, two round trip, per day and 40 uqking days a year,
transportation of the plain's total harvest will need 300 carts with the project
compared with 200 at present. Hence amortization costs (at 5% over 10 years) will
rice from CJAF 100 to 200/ha.



CHAD
SATEGUI-DMEESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rice Farm Budgeto
-----    -----Project at Full Development----------------
Project                                                    M3
Present         Weighted            Outside              Standard         Folder
Situation       Averae              Polders              Polders          Block
Rice area (ha)                      4.5            4.4               _77-                   4.-              -3.5
Yield (tAa)                         0.9            1.8                 1.4                  2.4               2.9
-   ----O----------C F A F ---------------------------------------------------
Gross Revenue                     72,900        142,462             113,400              194,400           182,700
Production Cost
7,290         21,526              17,150               27,250           35,650
7,290         28,083              21,780              34,960            53,660
Net Revenue
before project levy
bo                                 65,610        120,936              96,250              167,150           147,050
2/                                 65,610        114,379              91,620              159j,440         129,040
Project Levy  -/                                    7,111               -                  19,440            18,270
Net Income
after project levy
V                                  65,61o        113,825              96,250             -147,710           128, 780
65,610        107,268              91,620              140,000          110,770
US$ equivalent---------__________________________________
252            438                  370                568               495
252            413                  352                538               426
Y   Vh fertilizer subsidy
without fertilizer subsidy
/ project levy as 10 %. of gross production in the polder area.
This percentage is based onOMVSD financial analysis (see Anriex 15).



ANNEX 17
Page 1
CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        Table 1 shows the benefit stream of the project using a shadow
exchange rate of $1 = CFAF 290. Production, net of seed, is valued at the
economic farmgate price of CFAF 43.5/kg (Annex 14 para 15). Production
costs (Annex 16) include fertilizers at their full market cost without
subsidy. The labor cost of farm families participating in the project is
taken at its current economic opportunity cost which is the net value of
rice production in the project area without the project. In the calcula-
tion it is assumed that production without the project would increase by
1 per year up to 1982 (project years one to nine). The project would not
require the employment of additional labor or the settlement of new farmers.
The agricultural benefits of the project comprise the difference between
the net values of the "with" and "without" project situations.
2.        Table 2 is constructed along the same lines as Table 1 but the
calculations are based on the current exchange rate of $1 = CFAF 260 and the
economic farmgate price of CFAF 40.3/kg (Annex 14 para 15).
3.        Table 3 shows the project's cost stream which is derived from the
cost estimates in Annex 6 after the following deductions:
(a) CFAF 57 million corresponding to the expenditures specific to the
second stage study;
(b)  CFAF 157 million representing 40O  of the road component which is
considered to serve non-project activities; and
(c) CFAF 591 million corresponding to price contingencies.
(d) CFAF 160 million for short-term credit (taken care of including the
NET incremental production value) and working capital of OMVSD.
Costs are presented under three headings:
ProJect Works include irrigation works and roads, rehabilitation
of the agricultural station at Boumo, buildings, engineering con-
sultant costs, and physical contingencies;
Equipment includes the rice mill, vehicles, farm machinery, equip-
ment for operation and maintenance, and replacement of these items.
Management includes management consultant costs, all local per-
sonnel, and operating costs except those of the rice mill which
have been already deducted from the benefit stream.
Under these headings, costs are given at both market prices and at shadow
prices, calculated as follows:
Foreign costs: the financial cost is based on $1 = CFAF 260 and
the economic cost is based on $1 = CFAF 290.



AMNEX 17
Page   2
Unskilled local labor for construction of works: the financial cost
is based on daily wage of CFAF 560, and the economic cost is based
on a daily wage of CFGF 50 as the latter is considered to be the
opportunity cost of labor in the project area.
4.       The internal economic return has been calculated with:
(a) benefits and costs at shadow prices, and
(b)  benefits and costs at market prices
The economic returns are, respectively, (a) 14.4% and (b) 13.0%. A sensitivity
analysis has been carried out and-gives the following results:
Shadow Prices         Market Prices
Project works cost overrun 15%
and benefits slipped accordingly             12.4%                  11.1%
Project works cost overrun 10%                13.5%                  12.1%
Operating costs overrun 25%                   13.6%                  12.2%
Benefit increase 15%                          16.4%                  14.8%
Benefit decrease 15%                          12.3%                  11.0%



CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1/
Calculation of Benefits at Shadow Exchange Rate
-- Tons--                                               CFAF million-
Economic                             Net Economic Value of    Incremental
Volume of          Gross            Economic               Agricultural              Net
Production(Seed      Value of 1/       Production               Production           Production
Years                  deducted)_       Production            costs/2  With Project Without Project    Value
1                     7,400              323                8              315              315           -
2                     7,400              323                8              315              318            -3
3                     8,000              348               11              337              321            16
4                    10,500              457               22              435              325           110
5                    13,100              570               33              537              328           209
6                    14,900              648               40              608              331           277
7                    16,700              726               48              678              335           343
8                    18,300              796               55.             741              338           403
9 to  50                     19,100              831               59              772              341           431
H 
1/ Paddy price at 43.5 CFAF/kg based on shadow
exchange rate of $1 = CFAF 290 (See Annex 14).
2/ Calculated from Annex 16, after excluding seed value and
taking fertilizers at full cost. Progressive increase following increases il cultivated
project area till year 9 when full development is reached.



CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1/
Calculation of Benefits at Current Exchange Rate
-- Tons-----    -----------------------------------CFAF million---------------------------
Economic                       Net Economic Value of              Incremental
Volume of           Gross         Economic             Agricultural                      Net
Production(Seed      Value of 1/   Production              Production                   Production
Years             deducted)_    Production             costs/2   With Project   Without Project           Value
1                 7,400              298             8              290              290
2                 7,400              298             8              290              293                  -3
3                 8,000              322            11              311              296                  15
4                10,500               423           22              401              299                 102
5                13,100              528            33              495              302                 193
6                14,900               600           40              560              305                 255
7                16,700              673            48              625              308                 317
8                18,300               737           55              682              311.                371
9 to 50               19,100               770           59              711               314                397             H
1/ Paddy price at 40.3 CFAF/kg based on current exchange
rate of $1   CFAF 260 (See Annex 14).
2/ Calculated from Annex 16, after excluding seed value and taking fertilizers at full cost. Progressive
in cultivated project area till 9 when full development is reached.



CHAD
SATEGUI-DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
CFAF million
*Project Cost                                         Project Benefits 1/
Project Works      Equipment & Rice       Management and
including          Mill including         Operation and
Physical Cont.       Replacement            Maintenance           Total Costs
Market   Shadow   Market   Shadow         Market   Shadow        Market   Shadow         Market   Shadow
Years          Prices   Prices   Prices   Prices          Prices   Prices        Prices   Prices        Prices   Prices
1             100       112        -         -            -         -           100       112           -         -
2             825       765         56      60            26        27          907       852           -3        -3
3             590       541        103      95            69        72          762       708           15        16
4              11        13         18       20           97       101          126       134          102       110
5             -         -           16       18           89        94          105       112          193       209
6             -         -           16       18           52        50           68        68          255       277
7             -         -           16       18           45        44           61        62          317       343
8             -         -           16       18           45        44           61        62          371       403      1-
9 to 50             _         _           16       18           45        44           61        62           397       431
1/ Incremental not production value from last columns of Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex
The internal Economic Return is 13.0% at market price5and 14.4% at shadow prices.






CHAD
SATEGUI - DERESSIA IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
FY  1973,74                   FY  1974/75                    FY 1975/76                      FY  1976/77                     FY  1977 78                      FY  1978/79
WORK ITEM
J A S O  N D  J F M A M                                  M JAS NDJFMAM     J A S O  N D J F M A     J J A S     N D J F M A M J J A S     N D     F M A M J J A     O  N D J F M    A M    J
I   _ _    IssI
FINAL DESIGN                ,/                                                                     ,
TENDER DOCUJMENTS         ,,,7'                                                                                             '
BUILDINGS                                                                                                                                                                           . .'.. / 
RAIN                           RAIN''AI                                                       RAI                            RAIN/                     [      AI
INTAKE WORKS
POLDER M
POLDER D,
ROADS
RICE MILL
AGRICULTURAL STATION                                                                      -     7'77
SECOND STAGE STUDIES   '             I/                            .                                                                                     Z..- 
2 Opcog
3 As-,
4         --ta~.aId
5  6. Od gs OlpOO
S Plant ni-ted                                                                                                                                                       5k B,W 7472
7   M,II,sg -coe -nl/






IBRD 10338R
I AUARY  1974
N~~~
L I B Y  A                                             AR.E,
~~~~~~~'' .                     j       \                                                I   . A0QU'-N 
Y-1,.  $CtD=<  CHADr
-ZI~~~~~~
+^t\,_,t 6>*+,_*,i <. Xgf y       0SATEGUL  - DERESSIA                                            - .
.- og   - WG   j         \             ~~~~PROJECT LOCATION                                    i
-o  t;<    < g *t  i               X      ~~~~~BORKOU-ENNEDI-TIBESTIj
AFRICA                                                             -
: NIGER
'~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                             . - ,/-XIj
A5#   ;       ~      *.7                 s_.          (                             7i  c                                     
/                                                                                                    ,  e=:    4    o*o 0
I IT                        ~~z
,    * KO DJAMENA                                                                   0 '  ,,  +r
tV a §>Mot,\}C      M K   I                     I                   >.                  r 5 N A t ;/A,r   S
V,                                                                                                                      14M'M9
t   > *><Psf   4/ u    P+SSENtA    \S    gGUERA <+                                       ' ~
f~~~~~~~~SO r,,                            ".f  <  -    AE Cj        A9>,r.   .A.TAt
\      i   --  .         i
A            1?*             i  stp                 tt  .               2Q                  2f' 1 
Q                                  C~~~~~~~~ ~~ENYRAL    AFRICAN      REPUBLIC                     , <                 ,.






113KD IUJ;5WK
JANUARY  1974
CHAD                                                                   (        To /oyed
SATEGUI - DERESSIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Polder Areas
Rice Paddy Fields (1971)
Feeder Roads
Dikes                                                          /
Irrigation Canals                                                               /
Primary Road, Seasonal                                      /
Secondary Roads, Seasonal                                                          SObou
0  2  4     6      e      lo                            1                  X            \10,;'[
Kl-OMETERS                                      / 5Bo
/    >        POLDER D                            B.ng.
Oo\Io,                           POLDER D7Wrr  ~    i  K lPOLDER M
:~~~D :        "      ,    -                                           t 
.-9                          //                                 D C H AD  1 .  i .
tk ~ ~~~~~~~~ -2                                                                    POLDE MiL
E7~~~D~                     >W              r                I                               / , /   1 ,, ,,...,.\
AGRICULTURA STATION / 7/D
I OPEN4SAT OC
~BOK M3
K.-
N,       -
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,g
'V~~~~~~
'D NJAMENA
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
5""            .7,.,                             



