 O F F IC IA L   D T N ~ B R 4 9 c
0"' !ALS  s  i )I UBR489-CD
DOTCU M E NTS Substitution)
Development Credit Agreement
(Substitution)
(Sategui-Deressia Irrigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       o, 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 489-CD
(Substitution)
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   N 0    L                           , 1985,
between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) Pursuant to a development credit agreement
(Sategui-D&ressia Irrigation Project) dated June 28, 1974 between
the Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the 1974
Agreement), the Association made a development credit to the
Borrower in an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven
million five hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000) to assist in
the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to the 1974
Agreement (hereinafter called the 1974 Project);
(B) By a letter dated October 14, 1975, the Association
agreed to certain amendments to the 1974 Agreement, including,
inter alia, an amendment of the 1974 Project;
(C) Pursuant to an Agreement Amending Development Credit
Agreement (Sat&gui-D&ressia Irrigation Project) dated October 7,
1976, between the Borrower and the Association (hereinafter
called the 1976 Agreement), the parties agreed to certain further
amendments of the 1974 Agreement, including, inter alia, the
description of the 1974 Project, and the Association agreed to
increase its financing to an aggregate amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to fifteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($15,500,000) (hereinafter called the 1976 Credit);
(D) The 1976 Agreement was further amended by a letter
agreement dated September 26, 1984 between the Borrower and the
Association;
(E) Due to circumstances not anticipated at the time of the
1974 Agreement, the execution of the 1974 Project was interrupted
in mid-1979;
(F) Current conditions in the territory of the Borrower
warrant a resumption of activities but the 1974 Project, as
amended, and the implementation arrangements therefor need to be
adapted to the changed circumstances; and
(G) The Borrower has requested the United Nations Devel-
opment Programme, the Food and Agriculture Organization of


﻿-2-
the United Nations, the United Nations Development Capital
Fund, and the World Food Programme to assist Office de Mise
en Valeur de Satfgui-Dfressia in the execution of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and said agencies are
willing to provide said assistance in accordance with the terms
of agreements to be entered into for that purpose;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Substitution; General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. This Development Credit Agreement is substi-
tuted for the 1974 Agreement, as amended, and the 1974 Agreement,
as amended, is terminated as of the date of this Agreement; pro-
vided, however, that: (i) the principal amount of the 1976 Credit
repayable to the Association as determined on the date of this
Agreement shall be deemed to have been withdrawn and to be repay-
able pursuant to this Development Credit Agreement; and (ii)
unpaid service charges due under Section 2.05 of the 1974 Agree-
ment, as amended, as determined on the date of this Agreement
shall be deemed to have accrued pursuant to this Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 1.02. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969;
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.03. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "OMVSD" means the Borrower's Office de Mise en Valeur
de  Sat&gui-D&ressia, a    public  enterprise  established  under
Ordonnance No. 7/PR/SGG dated February 15, 1974;
(b)  "Project Area" means approximately 4,300 ha of the
Sategui-D&ressia plain comprised of five polders and approxi-
mately 2,700 ha of adjacent land;


﻿-3-
(c)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d) "Special Account" means the account to be maintained
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e) "UNDP/FAO/UNDCF/WFP Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the United Nations
Development Programme, the Food and Agriculture Organization of
the United Nations, the United Nations Development Capital Fund,
and the World Food Programme for the purpose of the rehabilita-
tion of the 1,500 ha irrigated by gravity under the 1974 Project
that were operational in 1979.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to fifteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($15,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
A.sociation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section .2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1984, and ending December 1,
2023, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 1993, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Frencb Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section  2.09. The    Directeur-Gen&ral  and  the  Directeur
Administratif et Financier of OMVSD, acting jointly, are desig-
nated as representatives of the Borrower for the purpose of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause OMVSD to carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, administrative, engineering and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to
OMVSD on a grant basis.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause OMVSD to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by OMVSD to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the purposes of
the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause OMVSD to furnish
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause OMVSD: (i) to maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) to enable the Association's representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) to
furnish to the Association all such information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds, including copies of all super-
vision and progress reports prepared under the UNDP/FAO/UNDCF/WFP
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. For the purpose of carrying out by force
account the civil works required under Parts A and B of the


﻿-6-
Project, the Borrower shall cause OMVSD to make adequate arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Association, for the use of heavy
earthmoving equipment together with labor-intensive methods.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause OMVSD to make available to
farmers in the Project Area short and medium-term credits under
standard credit agreements, the terms and conditions of which
shall be acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause OMVSD:
(a) to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition, including, without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure;
(b) to retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure and to enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to examine such records;
(c) to have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(d) to furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section, as to whether the proceeds of the


﻿-7-
Credit made available to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they -#ere provided; and
(e) to furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Associ-:tion
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Iorrower shall cause OMVSD to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause OMVSD to be managed
at all times by a Directeur-G&neral appointed on a full-time
basis with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause OMVSD: (i) to employ
a financial consultant in order to assist OMVSD in establishing
a sound financial management system, said consultant's qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment to
be satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants of World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981; (ii) to implement the financial management system
recommended by said consultant, except if the Association shall
agree otherwise; and (iii) to employ on a full-time basis the
experts provided under the UNDP/FAO-,/UNDCF/WFP Agreement.
Section  4.05. At the    request of   the Directeur-General
of OMVSD, the Borrower shall provide OMVSD with qualified
Chadian counterpart personnel to the experts referred to in
Section 4.04 (iii) of this Agreement.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall conduct a survey of health
conditions in the Project Area, continue to monitor such condi-
tions and take all appropriate measures to control sickness
therein.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall raise the farmgate prices
of paddy to a level sufficient to induce farmers to grow rice and
market it through OMVSD and shall raise the ex-mill prices of
rice to levels sufficient to provide OMVSD with revenues adequate


﻿-8-
to cover its operating costs and repay OMVSD's capital invest-
ments, such levels of paddy and rice prices to be acceptable
to the Association and to take into account, insofar as possible,
the consumers' interests.
Section 4.08. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause OMVSD to levy and collect from
farmers in the polder areas an annual charge for the maintenance
of the irrigation network of 21,600 CFAF/ha. The level of such
charge shall be reviewed and adjusted annually on the basis of
the inflation rate during the preceding year and shall at all
times be acceptable to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall cause OMVSD to deposit the proceeds
of said charges in a separate bank account and shall not trans-
fer, nor cause OMVSD to transfer, such proceeds to the Treasury.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause OMVSD to operate and
maintain its equipment and property, including the roads financed
under the Project, and from time to time to make the necessary
renewals or repairs    thereof, all   in  accordance with   sound
engineering practices.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall coope-
rate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be
accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of OMVSD, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic condi-
tions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance
of payments, and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its
political subdivisions and of any agency of the Borrower or of
any such political subdivision.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of OMVSD.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform
each other of any cdndition which interferes with, or threatens
to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by either of them of its obligations under the DeveloDment Credit
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any
taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in
its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free
from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service
charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restrictions,
regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature imposed under
the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set
forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the


﻿- 10 -
Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to
be due and payable immediately together with the service charges
thereon, and upon any such declaration such principal and service
charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything to the
contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gene-
ral Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of OMVSD or for the suspension of its operation;
(b) the presidential Ordonnance establishing OMVSD and the
interministerial decree setting forth the statutes of OMVSD shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in
such a way as to adversely affect the performance by the Borrower
of its obligations under this Agreement; and '
(c) the rights of the Borrower under the UNDP/FAO/UNDCF/WFP
Agreement shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated, in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the UNDP/FAO/UNDCF/WFP
Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gene-
ral Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely that any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Sec-
tion 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effectiveness
Section 8.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon
signature by both parties.
ARTICLE IX
Representatives of the Borr.,wer; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for the Plan is designated as representatste of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
MinistAre du Plan et de la Reconstruction Nationale
N'Djamena,
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Ministre Plan
N'Djamena
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By Is/ A      A dou w
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By e &,(siC.1 el)'~
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                8,800,000        100%
(2) Management consul-         2,600,000        100%
tants' services
(3) Engineerihg consul-        1,800,000       50%
tants' services
(4) OMVSD salaries and         1,500,000       100%
operating expenses
(5) Special Account             250,000        Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 4 to
this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                  550,000
TOTAL               15,500,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or


﻿- 14 -
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to improve conditions of wet season
rice cultivation in the Project Area and to transform OMVSD into
a commercially viable enterprise. The Project consists of the
following:
Part A
Construction and rehabilitation of three polders irrigated
by gravity to serve a net cultivated area of rice of approxi-
mately 1,500 ha.
Part B
Construction of approximately 70 km of feeder roads to serve
the Project Area.
Part C
Provision of extension services to farmers located in the
Project Area.
Part D
Construction and rehabilitation of field warehouses and of
a rice mill of four tons an hour capacity at Lai, together with
offices, workshop, staff housing and related facilities.
Part E
Provision of management consultants' services to assist
OMVSD in carrying out the Project, in the agricultural develop-
ment of the Project Area and in its program of agricultural
demonstration, experimentation and applied research.
Part F
Provision of engineering consultants' services to help
prepare final designs and to assist OMVSD in carrying out the
civil works required under Parts A, B and D of the Project by
force account.


﻿- 16 -
Part G
With respect to the Boumo Agricultural Station:
(i) renovation and repair of the buildings;
(ii) rehabilitation of the irrigation system; and
(iii) execution of a program of applied research and seed
multiplication.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Equipment shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by
the Bank in April 1972 as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines).
2.   Civil works shall be carried out through force account by
OMVSD.
Sub-contracting, where applicable, shall be let on the basis
of local shopping.
3.   Items costing less than $15,000 equivalent shall be pro-
cured through local shopping, provided, however, that the aggre-
gate of all items procured under such procedures shall not exceed
$200,000 equivalent.
4.   Farmers' agricultural inputs may be procured through local
shopping.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for equipment or civil works
subject to internatioral or local competitive bidding and esti-
mated to cost $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to


﻿- 18 -
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two con Cormed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract subject to international or
local competitive bidding to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Bor-
rower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schednle, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services and salaries
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and
(4) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
CFAF equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (5) which is
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   (a) For purposes of withdrawal of the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Association shall, on the basis of a request or
requests by the Borrower and evidence satisfactory to the
Association that the Special Account has been duly opened, with-
draw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts of the
Authorized Allocation as the Borrower shall have requested, up to
the total of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) For purposes of withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit
to replenish the Special Account, the Association shall, on the
basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Association at
such intervals as the Association shall specify, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Except as the Associa-
tion may otherwise agree, each such deposit shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective


﻿- 20 -
Categories (1) and (4), and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall'furnish to
the Association in respect of each payment made by the Borrower
out of the Special Account such documents and other evidence as
the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions of paragraph    3 of   this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association: (a) when the Association shall have
determined at any time that all further withdrawals can be made
directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, or (b) unless otherwise agreed by the Association,
when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
Categories (1) and (4), minus the amount of any qualified agree-
ment to reimburse made by the Association and of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) and (4) shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower and
shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, be made
only after and to the extent the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for expenditures or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into


﻿- 21 -
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of         ,
19851                       S
FOR SECRETARY


