Document of                -          ;
The World Bank                    FILt tA y'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2794-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
April 29, 1980
This document has a restricted distibution snd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)  =    US$ 1.43
1 US Dollar ($)         =    LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AIB         -    Arab Investment Bank
ALPA        -    Alexandria Paper Company
NATIONAL    -    National Paper Company
RAKTA       -    General Company for Paper Industry (RAKTA)
SIMO        -    Societe Industrielle du Moyen Orient
tpd         -    Tons per day
tpy         -    Tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:        National Paper Company (NATIONAL) and General Company for
Paper Industry (RAKTA).
Amount:              $50 million
Terms:               15 years, including four and a half years of grace, with
interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
On-lending Terms:   $23 million of the loan proceeds will be onlent to NATIONAL
and $27 million to RATKA for 15 years, including four and
a half years of grace, at an interest rate of 10 percent
per annum.
Projlect
Description:        The project is the lead effort in the Government's attempts
to upgrade the country's pulp and paper sector. It would
provide physical facilities and technical assistance to
NATIONAL and RAKTA to modernize and rehabilitate their
existing plants. It would increase capacity at the mills,
upgrade operating efficiency and reduce operating costs as
well as improve the quality of the companies' products,
making them competitive with imports. To help achieve
this objective, the two public sector companies would
establish two successor companies in the joint venture
sector in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank. This would give autonomy to the successor companies
regarding pricing, profit retention, and compensation
policies which would enable them to attract and retain
qualified employees. The studies included under the
project will review the paper and board converting sub-
sector to establish linkages between primary paper con-
sumers and the paper production subsector, conduct an
in-depth evaluation of fiber resources in Egypt, and
determine detailed priorities for further additions to
the two subsectors. The major risk associated with the
project relates to the organizational improvements needed
in the two companies which is expected to be dealt with
through the establishment of the successor companies in
the joint venture sector.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Prolect
Cost:                                                           In US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
NATIONAL
Civil Works                              1.0        -        1.0
Equipment                                0.1      12.7      12.8
Erection (cif mill)                      2.9       2.7       5.6
Engineering                               -        2.0       2.0
Total Plant Cost                        4.0     17.4      21.4
Technical Assistance                     0.1       2.5       2.6
Base Cost Estimate                      4.1      19.9     24.0
Physical Contingency                     0.4       1.2       1.6
Price Escalation                         1.0       2.7       3.7
Installed Cost                         5.5      23.8      29.3
Working Capital                          1.8       4.1       5.9
Total Project Cost                      7.3     27.9      35.2
Interest During Construction             0.6       1.7      2.3
Total Financing Required                 7.9     29.6      37.5
RAKTA
Civil Works                              1.0        -        1.0
Equipment (cif mill)                     0.1      17.6      17.7
Erection and Overhead                    1.8       2.3       4.1
Engineering                               -        1.7       1.7
Total Plant Cost                        2.9     21.6      24.5
Technical Assistance                     0.1       1.5       1.6
Base Cost Estimate                      3.0     23.1      26.1
Physical Contingency                     0.2       1.5       1.7
Price Escalation                         0.5       3.4       3.9
Installed Cost                         3.7      28.0      31.7
Working Capital                          2.3       1.6       3.9
Total Project Cost                      6.0     29.6      35.6
Interest During Construction              -        2.8      2.8
Total Financing Required                 6.0      32.4      38.4
Studies                                   -        0.7      0.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      13.3      58.2      71.5
OVERALL FINANCING REQUIRED              13.9     62.7       76.6



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                                In US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
NATIONAL
Equity (Private Shareholders):
Total Equity                        4.2       5.8      10.0
Loans:
Imports Loans/Credit (IBRD/IDA)      -        0.8       0.8
IBRD                                 -       23.0      23.0
Financial institutions, mostly    3.7         -         3.7
local
Total Loans                         3.7      23.8      27.5
Total Financing                       7.9      29.6      37.5
RATKA
Equity (Private Shareholders):
Total Equity                        6.0       4.6      10.6
Loans:
Imports Loans/Credit(IBRD/IDA)       -        0.8       0.8
IBRD                                 -       27.0      27.0
Total Loans                          -       27.8      27.8
Total Financing                       6.0      32.4      38.4
Studies (Government)                            0.7       0.7
Total Financing                      13.9      62.7      76.6
Estimated Bank                                              US$ Million
Disbursements:                     Bank FY         80       81      82       83
Annual                        0.2     13.0    25.7    11.1
Cumulative                    0.2     13.2    38.9    50.0
Estimatea Economic
Rate of Return:    20 percent for NATIONAL, 32 percent for RAKTA
Appraisal Report:   Egypt, Pulp and Paper Project
No.2482-EGT, dated April 15, 1980
Industrial Projects Department






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THE PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$50.0 million to help
finance a project for the rehabilitation and modernization of two paper
companies, National Paper Company (NATIONAL) and General Company for Paper
Industry (RAKTA) and for further studies in the paper sector. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including 4 1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.25
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic mission visited Egypt during September-October
1979. Subsequent to that a report on "Recent Economic Developments and
External Capital Requirements" (SecM 79-839) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on November 28, 1979. The findings of this report are incor-
porated in the following. Country data sheets are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.        Economic trends in Egypt have been strongly influenced by the "open-
door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in October 1973 and approved in a
national referendum in May 1974. This strategy aims at accelerating economic
development through modernization and making Egypt's largely publicly-owned
and centrally-controlled economy more market-oriented. Specifically, the
strategy envisages (i) a gradual dismantling of government regulations, many
of which are to be replaced by the price mechanism; (ii) the decentralization
of decision-making in state-owned enterprises; (iii) a more active role for
the private sector, including private foreign investors; and (iv) expanded
economic cooperation with other countries. Substantial inflows of external
assistance are considered essential to support the strategy.
4.        To implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been effectively devalued by 44
percent from $2.56 to $1.43 per pound at present. Exchange restrictions
1/   Part I of this report is identical to Part I of the President's Report
for the Textile II Project (P-2764-EGT) which was approved by the
Board on April 29, 1980.



- 2 -
were eased, specific import allocations were replaced by general import quotas,
and more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and private
sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offers attractive
incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially with the EEC,
opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bilateral trade with
COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt management unit was established
in the Central Bank and became operative in mid-1978.
5.        A Five-Year Plan was adopted in 1978 and is currently under revision,
in accordance with the Government's desire to periodically reassess development
perspectives and respond to changing economic conditions and investment options.
In support of the overall plan, a number of sector and subsector programs are
currently under preparation with the assistance of the Bank and other donors.
These include a Water Master Plan, various industrial subsector studies, a
review of the transport sector, and an electrification program.
6.        In accordance with the objective of greater decentralization, the
autonomy of public enterprises has been somewhat strengthened, especially by
a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to individual enter-
prises in (i) setting up organizational structures, (ii) introducing material
incentives, (iii) establishing productivity related wage scales, (iv) adjust-
ing the work force to production requirements by not having to hire additional
people, and (v) undertaking some investments from their own resources.
Provincial authority to undertake regional development programs has also been
expanded. Central bureaucratic control remains strong, however, over most
investment decisions.
7.        A start has been made in rationalizing the price structure and
increasing price flexibility. The share of industrial output subject to
centralized price control has decreased, and prices for a number of controlled
products (including agricultural crops and some public service tariffs) were
substantially increased. Interest rates have been raised several times and now
stand at 10 to 12 percent for lending (to non-government sector) and 6 to 8.5
percent for term deposits. Private sector activity is being encouraged and
has been freed from many previous restrictions. Moreover, a growing number of
foreign investment contracts are being signed, especially in the important oil
and tourism sectors.
Impact of the "Open-Door" Strategy
8.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy actions have yielded
impressive results. Above all, they have led to a rapid increase in Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to $5.5 billion
in 1978. During this period, oil exports, workers' remittances, tourism and
the Suez Canal emerged as major new sources of foreign exchange. This was
accompanied by a major shift of agricultural and industrial exports from
COMECON countries to the hard currency area. In addition, the Government
managed to attract large amounts of foreign assistance. Gross inflows of
medium- and long-term capital averaged $3.4 billion per annum during 1975-78,
compared with an average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72. The bulk of
these aid flows came from Arab and western donors and were provided at highly
concessional terms.



- 3 -
9.        Increased exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows have resulted in
a consolidation of Egypt's external debt and have strengthened the country's
creditworthiness. Short-term credits owed by the Government to commercial banks
were reduced from $1.4 billion at the end of 1976 to $443 million at end-1978,
largely with the help of loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the
Development of Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in
debt payments, which had built up in previous years, were cleared. These
changes have solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's
financial position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms on new borrowings have
also eased the burden on the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although
Egypt's total medium- and long-term public debt increased sharply during
recent years--from $2.1 billion at the end 1973 to an estimated $10.0 billion
at the end-1978--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent to 24 percent,
during the same period. This reflects not only more favorable credit terms --
i.e., lower interest rates and longer maturities--but also the rapid increase
in foreign exchange earnings.
10.       The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has allowed much
higher levels of imports. This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase of
investment, larger domestic consumption, and a better utilization of existing
production capacities. Imports of goods and services (excluding interest
payments) rose from about $2.0 billion in 1973 to an estimated $6.5 billion in
1978; imports of capital goods increased at an even faster rate. Increased
availability of foreign exchange to industrial producers and farmers enabled
them to import more raw materials, intermediate goods--including fertilizer
and pesticides--and spare parts, thus breaking crucial bottlenecks that had
constrained local production. Together with investments in new capacities and
a vigorous expansion of services such as trade, tourism and shipping, these
developments sharply accelerated the rate of economic growth.
11.       The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices rose
at an average rate of close to 9 percent per annum during 1974-78. Much of
the growth was concentrated in petroleum, construction, manufacturing, transport
and public utilities. Agricultural production, on the other hand, increased
very slowly (about 1 percent per annum). The growth rate of GNP was very high,
about 13 percent per annum, because of the massive growth in workers' remit-
tances from $189 million in 1974 to $1,760 million in 1978. The higher level
of economic activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring
oil exporting countries has absorbed much of the excess labor force that
existed in the early 1970s. In fact, serious labor shortages have begun to
emerge in a number of occupations, especially in the construction sector.
12.       Since 1974 Egypt's investment rate (investment/GNP) increased from
about 18 percent to about 25 percent on average in the 1976-78 period. This
increase was made possible by the substantial contribution of foreign savings
including the massive growth in workers' remittances. National savings increased
from 2.3 percent of GNP in 1974 to more than 12 percent in 1978, reflecting the
rise in remittance income. The domestic savings rate, however, while showing
some growth since 1974, financed less than a quarter of investment in the 1974-
78 period. A major cause for this inadequate level of domestic savings was the



- 4 -
continuously low and sometimes even negative savings generated by the government
budget. During 1974-78 current budget surpluses averaged less than one percent
of GNP, and their contribution to the financing of public investment averaged
less than 10 percent. This was the result of high defense and security expendi-
tures, large consumer subsidies and fast growing interest payments which, taken
together, claimed 79 percent of the government's tax revenues in 1978. At the
same time, savings generated by public enterprises remained constrained by
price regulations. The result has been a continuous shortage of domestic
funds, which in many instances has slowed down the implementation of investment
projects.
Recent Economic Developments
13.       Preliminary estimates indicate that GDP growth in 1979 was about 8.6
percent, close to the average achieved during 1975-78. The increase of agri-
cultural value added (2.6 percent) was significantly above the long-term trend
because of favourable climatic conditions and improved distribution of inputs.
Growth in industry and mining accelerated in 1979 to 11.5 percent, compared
with the 1975-78 average of 7.6 percent. There was, however, a marked slow-
down in the growth of the petroleum sector, 20 percent in 1979 compared to 34
percent in 1978, reflecting the lack of major discoveries in recent years and
the approaching "peak" in production from existing fields. Overall, the
growth rate in the commodity sectors realized in 1979 (6.9 percent) was close
to the 1975-78 average (7.6 percent). Growth in the distributive and service
sectors, about 12 percent and 9 percent respectively, continued to be signif-
icantly higher than in the commodity sectors.
14.        Egypt's foreign exchange earnings continued to grow rapidly in 1979.
Based on preliminary estimates, merchandise exports increased by about 38 per-
cent in value due to a major increase in petroleum revenue made possible by the
surge in world prices. Merchandise imports, on the other hand, increased by
only 11 percent in current value. With the continued growth in Suez Canal
earnings (17 percent) and officially recorded workers' remittances (11 percent),
the current account deficit declined by about 15 percent from its 1978 value
to about $1.5 billion. While the current account improved substantially, esti-
mated medium- and long-term capital inflow in 1979 ($2,410 million) was about 29
percent below its 1978 value ($3,373 million) reflecting the cessation of cash
inflows from GODE ($500 million in 1978), and a drastic decline in bilateral
disbursements from Arab sources (about $70 million in 1979 compared to about
$300 million in 1978). As a result, the overall balance (current account plus
net MLT capital flows) showed a small deficit ($18 million), and there was
some net short-term borrowing (about $150 million). Prospects for 1980 are
reasonably good, with petroleum revenue expected to exceed $2 billion and Suez
Canal earnings increasing as a result of recent increases in the Canal's
capacity as well as higher tariffs. In addition net MLT capital flows are
projected to grow significantly. Growth in these sources of foreign exchange,
and continued growth in workers' remittances and tourism receipts, would
permit the resumption of rapid growth in imports of producer goods essential
for sustaining high rates of investment and GDP growth.



-5-
15.       Reforms in trade, exchange rate and incentive policies have contri-
buted significantly to the recent improvements in the balance of payments.
Continued care must be taken, however, that incentives remain appropriate and
are adapted to changing circumstances. The gap between interest rates on
foreign and domestic deposits will have to be closed to channel more workers'
remittances and tourism receipts into official channels and prevent the
re-emergence of a large dual foreign exchange market. Periodic adjustments in
the exchange rate may also become necessary if the unofficial "free market"
rate were to start deviating substantially from the "unified" official rate.
In 1979 the free market premium fluctuated around 8 percent and significant
downward pressure on the exchange rate did not develop.
16.       The domestic fiscal situation remains an area of major concern.  The
overall budget deficit increased to reach about 22 percent of GNP in 1979.
Domestic financing of this deficit has gone up from 5.9 percent of GNP in 1977
to about 13.2 percent in 1979, increasing the pressure on money supply and
prices. While public revenue increased by 21 percent, current expenditure
alone increased by about 37 percent, principally because of a doubling of
subsidy payments linked to the exchange rate adjustment. Furthermore, in
spite of increasing revenue from petroleum and the Suez Canal, the public
enterprise sector still generated only half of the surplus that would be
required to finance its investment program.
17.       There are indications of a growing Government effort to contain
widening budgetary deficits. Already in 1979 two major agricultural input
prices (e.g., fertilizers and pesticides) and a wide range of other prices
(e.g., cement, gasoline, railway freights, etc.,) have been substantially
raised. The 1980 budget contains similar provisions and net domestic borrowing
is projected to decline. This is expected to be achieved through a variety of
measures: a new sales tax and elimination of tax loopholes, increases of 20
to 30 percent in consumer prices of mass consumption articles such as cloth,
cigarettes, soft drinks, sugar, petrol, kerosene, as well as limiting the
ration card system to the lowest income groups and eliminating subsidies
on flour for uses other than the production of traditional bread. The net
revenues derived from these measures will be complemented by a large increase
in revenue from the petroleum sector. The overall fiscal situation is,
therefore, likely to improve in 1980, unless massive increases in public
investment expenditures are allowed to outweigh the increase in revenues.
Development Potential and Constraints
18.       Egypt has considerable potential for further development.  The rea-
sons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively skilled
and literate population, an agricultural resource base not yet fully developed,
varied raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key geographical location.
In addition, there are good prospects for continued growth of foreign exchange
earnings from tourism, workers' remittances and the Suez Canal which is under-
going a major expansion. While oil exports are likely to decline in volume
in the long-run--in the light of increasing domestic consumption and less
optimistic assumptions on new discoveries--the outlook for exports of new
industrial and agricultural products is promising.



- 6 -
19.       Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The need to gradually substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign contributions decline in relation to GNP.
Capacities are now strained in a number of sectors, including infrastructure.
Investment in new capacities has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency,
inadequate fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are inadequate in many instances. Higher levels of
economic activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in
critical professional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt
still reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 39 million in 1978 with an average density exceed-
ing 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population was
growing at a rate of about 2.2 percent per annum in the mid-1970's, adding
almost one million people every year. This continues to create great pressures
on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates the employment
problem in the longer run. In the past years the Government has made a new
commitment to direct action on population matters. While it has already
initiated such action (e.g., an intensified home visiting program under the
second IDA financed population project), it will take time for measurable
results in fertility reduction to be achieved.
21.       A serious side-effect of the open-door strategy has been a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Currently the lower 40 percent of the rural
population receive about 25 percent of the rural incomes while in the urban
areas the proportion is about 21 percent. About 30 percent of the rural
and 22 percent of the urban population live in absolute poverty. Although
this pattern of inequality and incidence of absolute poverty is no worse
than in most economies at similar income levels, it is nevertheless a serious
problem, which could become more severe if no effective policy action is taken.
22.       To maintain the momentum of development, major efforts are required
to overcome present structural constraints. Specifically, action is needed
to (i) increase the efficiency of government administration through organiza-
tional and procedural modifications and selective changes in salary struc-
tures; (ii) strengthen the capacity for development programming and project
preparation/implementation; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to
upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) substantially expand the
program to curb population growth; (v) articulate urban and rural strategies
aimed at decentralizing urban agglomeration and economic opportunities; (vi)
further increase the use of prices as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vii) strengthen the management of public enterprises; (viii) improve pro-
fessional and technical education; (ix) increase domestic savings; and (x)
develop a coordinated export promotion policy. There is an ongoing dialogue
on all these issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank; they have
also been the focus of the discussion among the members of the Consultative
Group for Egypt.



-7
External Debt and Creditworthiness
23.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of July 31, 1979 was estimated at about $10.6 billion. Bilat-
eral loans comprised about $6.5 billion or about 62 percent of the debt out-
standing while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were
about 24 percent ($2.5 billion) and 8 percent ($0.8 billion) respectively, with
the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major creditors were the
GODE and USA, followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 4 percent of the total disbursed debt.
The estimated end-December 1979 total disbursed debt was about $11.0 billion.
Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated at $1.4 billion in
1979 giving a debt service ratio of about 20 percent. No reliable estimates
of military debt are available.
24.       The Government's recent policy actions have initiated structural
adjustments called for by Egypt's economic situation and international environ-
ment. If progress towards overcoming present constraints is maintained and
the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the average deficit
on current account is estimated to be about $2.5 billion per annum for the
coming five years. The required capital inflows are large--but if they are
available on concessional terms, Egypt would have the debt servicing capacity
to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on harder terms.
The burden of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a percentage of total
foreign exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate around 20 percent during
1980-84, and to decline gradually thereafter.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
25.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's forty-ninth lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $1724.5 million.2/- Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of March 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems (para. 22) in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with
other donors. Its strategy involves entry into the whole spectrum of sectors
in order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited
resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies, and as a spur for initiating discussion and, hopefully,
positive action on a coherent framework of policies and investment proposals
which can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery
of technical assistance not only for adequate implementation of specific
1/  Paragraphs 26-30 are substantially unchanged from Part II of the
President's Report for the Textile II Project (P-2764-EGT) which was
approved by the Board on April 29, 1980,
2/ Includes two other projects which are expected to be presented to the
Executive Directors before the proposed Pulp and Paper project: $30
Million Loan for MIDB and $50 Million Credit for Cairo Gas Distribution.



- 8 -
investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional capability
to articulate and implement future policies and investment programs. The
Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has been differentiated
by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian authorities can
reasonably be expected to address these issues and implement the programs.
27.       Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector receiv-
ing the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention, illus-
trates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The Government
looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of the
economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs, and
generate an "export surplus". However, this sector is beset by complex
problems which stem largely from the rigidity of centralized control and lack
of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives for
more efficient production. Efforts under Bank financed projects have gone
beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization (Imports
loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456) and increasing produc-
tion capacity and supply of essential commodities in resource-based industries
(cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer projects). The more fundamen-
tal effort has been directed at introducing policy and structural improvements.
Towards this end, the Bank is assisting the Government in reviewing the
planning apparatus and strengthening sectoral planning and project preparation
and implementation capabilities with the objective of formulating an industrial
strategy and plan for the 1980's. It has also financed six subsector studies
in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metallurgy,
and engineering industries, in order to assist the Government in formulating a
package of policy and investment proposals, which are also embodied in our
projects. Two subsectors, textiles and steel, are planned for further study
with a view to developing specific recommendations about some of the major
issues facing public enterprises in Egypt, such as those relating to employ-
ment, wages, prices, profit retention and the relationship to the private
sector. To complement these efforts the Bank has also carried out a study
on small-scale industries which we hope would form a basis for joint Bank/
Egyptian efforts in this area. Finally, the Bank is assisting the Government
in a major study of the construction/contracting industry, which is one of the
major bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, as well as in initiating
studies to develop a brick master plan and cement distribution master plan.
28.       The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
the Bank's intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted
approach that it has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of
the Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with the
Egyptian Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman of
the Consultative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending follows
this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in education, power, gas
distribution, rural and urban development, transportation, water supply,
agriculture (including drainage), development finance and industry.
29.       Bank Group disbursements in 1978 represent 2.8 percent of Egypt's
medium- and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total



- 9 -
external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1.8 percent and 2.4
percent, respectively, as of July 31, 1979. -For the future, the Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 5.0 and 3.5 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively, of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
30.       IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total about
$37 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976); a ready-made
garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex primarily for
sugar beet (May 1978); a poultry project (July 1978); and a fish farming
project (December 1979). IFC is discussing several other private sector and
joint venture projects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND PULP AND PAPER SECTORS
31.       Industry 1/ has become a significant sector of the Egyptian economy
with its share in GDP rising from around 8 percent in 1946 to 17 percent in
1979. It employed about 1.3 million persons, or nearly 13 percent of the
civilian labor force, in 1979. Industrial exports provided about 30 percent
of commodity exports and amounted to about LE 550 million or 14 percent of
the gross value of industrial output. The industrial structure is weighted
heavily in favor of industries producing consumer goods which account for
about 58 percent of industrial gross value added; intermediate products
(building materials, fertilizers, chemicals, and metals) account for about
34 percent; and capital goods, only 8 percent.
32.       As a result of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, almost all
large- and medium-scale industrial enterprises are now in the public sector.
Its approximately 200 establishments generate about two-thirds of the value
added in industry and mining and provide close to one-half of the total indus-
trial employment, mainly in four sub-sectors: textiles, food products, metal
and engineering, and chemicals. Egypt's basic industries are all in the
public sector and include iron and steel, aluminum, and fertilizer. The
private sector accounts for about one-third of total value added in industry
and about half the sector's labor force. Textiles, food products, leather,
woodworking and furniture, and engineering remain the dominant industries.
33.       The performance of the industrial sector, which was characterized in
1973-74 by important idle productive capacities, rapidly improved following
the announcement of the "open door" policy in 1973 which resulted in the
relaxation of controls and greater availability of foreign exchange. This
period was followed by a temporary slowdown in the growth of industrial output
in 1978 (5.7 percent), followed by a recovery in 1979 (11.5 percent), which
1/   Manufacturing and mining, excluding petroleum.



- 10 -
points to the increasing impact on production of investment efforts during the
last few years. While the growth of industrial output in the public sector in
1973 and 1974 was low (2.1 and 2.6 percent), it jumped to about 8-9 percent
per annum during 1975-79. The private sector has performed somewhat better
than the public sector during the past few years. Its output, which stagnated
during 1972-74, increased by 10 percent annually during 1974-79. The private
sector's share in total industrial investment averaged only about 4 percent
during 1969-74. Following the adoption of the "open door" policy, it increased
to about 10-12 percent during 1975-78, reflecting a favorable response to the
Government's initiatives.
34.       Egyptian industry has significant long-term prospects to grow and
to broaden its base, deriving primarily from the large and growing domestic
market and a strategic location with access to markets in Europe. An indus-
trial structure and tradition already exist, as well as a large, relatively
low-cost labor force. Though Egypt is not endowed with a wide range of raw
materials, there are adequate domestic resources to develop efficient indus-
tries in many subsectors. Because of the limited scope for agricultural
development, which so far is proceeding slowly, and with an over-staffed
service sector, the Government looks to industry to provide stimulus to
growth through continued expansion, efficient import substitution emphasizing
intermediate and capital goods, and expanded exports as well as to absorb the
growing labor force. This is reflected in the 1978-82 Industrial Plan 1/
which allocates about LE 3 billion or a quarter of total investment to indus-
try. The Plan also recognizes the potential of the private sector for
Egypt's industrial development and growth: private investment was estimated
to comprise about 20 percent of total industrial investment during 1978-82 or
almost twice the level attained during 1975-77.
35.       However, in order for Egyptian industry to play the role described
above, it will be necessary for the government to continue its efforts to
overcome industrial bottlenecks, such as obsolete equipment, the result of
past shortages of foreign exchange; inadequate training; and lack of contact
with new technology, products, marketing and management techniques, which may
be explained by Egypt's limited exposure during the 1960s and early 1970s to
the markets that could offer these facilities. Active assistance is being
provided or sought to familiarize the industrial sector with modern produc-
tion techniques and training and to extend Egypt's trade toward free currency
markets, and the trend in the replacement of obsolete machinery should result
in improvements in product quality.
Recent Bank Actions Relating to Industry
36.       Through its lending operations and in the context of an industrial
policy dialogue, the Bank is trying to help Egypt in these efforts and thus
increase the efficiency and productivity of the industrial sector. The Bank's
1/   Currently being revised as part of the preparation of the overall 1980-
84 plan.



- 11 -
recent industrial sector lending program has included (i) program loans to
relieve foreign exchange constraints and thereby improve capacity utilization;
(ii) assistance to large, high priority Government projects; (iii) attempts
to address the principal issues affecting the productivity of the major sub-
sectors; and (iv) assistance to financial intermediaries to strengthen their
financial and technical assistance to be extended to private sector firms.
Lending commitments, including IFC, amounted to $390 million for industry from
FY73 to FY79, of which about $275 million has been disbursed as of March 31,
1980. Implementation difficulties have been experienced in Bank financed
projects due mainly to long start-up delays, slow construction and cumbersome
administrative procedures. In order to help remedy the situation the Govern-
ment has recently opened civil works to international competitive bidding and
made it easier to import construction materials. With Bank assistance it is
also undertaking the studies mentioned above (para. 27).
The Egyptian Pulp and Paper Industry
37.       Egypt's pulp and paper industry is one of the smaller but promising
branches of the manufacturing sector. In 1978 it contributed less than 3
percent of the value added and about 1 percent of the employment of the manu-
facturing sector. It depends on domestic rice straw, waste paper and bagasse
(residue from sugar cane) as its principal (70 percent) raw materials. While
these materials yield only short-fibered pulps thus limiting the range and
grades of papers that can be produced, the addition of imported long-fibered
pulp to the paper furnish has enabled Egyptian paper mills to produce a
relatively wide assortment of printing and writing papers, wrapping papers and
board, and to substitute for imports of these grades. Newsprint and specialty
papers as well as papers and board of high strength characteristics are still
outside current capabilities of the industry and are imported, but improved
technologies for making paper from bagasse may open new opportunities for
Egypt's paper and board production. A study to be included under the project
will examine the fiber-resource base in Egypt, and identify priorities for
future development (para. 50).
38.       Three public sector companies--NATIONAL, RAKTA and SIMO--represent
more than 85 percent of the country's paper making capacity, leaving the
remainder to nine very small and outdated mills in the private sector. There
is also a public sector bagasse based pulp mill at Edfu. Production capacities
at NATIONAL and RAKTA have been increased and partially modernized over the
past two decades by adding new pulp, paper and board lines and reconditioning
older equipment. As a result of this, the combined rated capacity of the
public sector paper mills has risen to about 140,000 tpy in 1978; however,
capacity utilization is currently only about 70 percent due to technical
problems associated with the continuing use of poorly maintained and obsolete
equipment at the NATIONAL and SIMO mills and in part to problems of marketing
the often poor quality grades of paper produced in all three mills, especially
in the face of increased competition from imports under the liberalization of
imports since 1973.
39.       In addition to capital for further modernization, the principal
constraints to improving the operating performance of Egypt's pulp and paper
industry relate to varying degrees of managerial and operational problems at



- 12 -
all existing mills, the strong influence which the Government has had on the
public sector companies' financial and investment decisions, which effectively
curtailed required flexibilities in plant management, as well as a general
lack of overall policy guidance and common direction. Other problems that
have affected the public sector pulp and paper industry resemble the problems
common to public sector industries in Egypt in general, including: (a) inade-
quate coordination with domestic suppliers; (b) employment policies that
contribute to plant overstaffing with unskilled labor; (c) a persistent
shortage of skilled labor, managers and technicians, many of whom continue
to be lured away to higher paid jobs in the private sector and neighboring
oil-rich Arab countries, and (d) a still inadequate wage and incentive system,
particularly compared to the private sector. While it is difficult to address
the problems of the public sector enterprises in a comprehensive way, a
mechanism does exist by which the most important difficulties can be dealt
with in specific situations: public sector companies that become joint-venture
companies under Law 43 (paras. 52 and 53) are given the scope to operate along
private lines, and this mechanism will be used under the project to provide
the borrowers of the proposed loan the necessary operational autonomy.
The Market
40.       Paper consumption in Egypt has gone through two distinct phases.
Until 1973, it was constrained by rigid import controls and, with the main
exceptions of newsprint and sack kraft, was totally supplied by the domestic
mills which produced about 70 percent of paper and board consumed in Egypt.
Since import liberalization in 1973, total apparent consumption of paper
and board increased from about 200,000 tons to about 300,000 tons in recent
years, while the percentage supplied domestically fell to 40 percent. Domestic
mill output declined from over 140,000 tons in 1973 to less than 120,000 tons
per year during 1976-79 while imports rose from 60,000 tons to about 190,000
tons or $100 million equivalent a year. Some of the factors contributing to
this situation have included: the shift of many domestic printers and pub-
lishers to high efficiency equipment, which required paper qualities (includ-
ing coated papers) beyond the production capabilities of the domestic mills;
quality deficiencies of locally produced products; changing technological
needs of the major consumers of industrial grades, which have caused them to
increasingly rely on imports; and the shift to substitute packing materials
such as plastics and foils.
41.       After successful implementation of the proposed project and the
improved product quality which would result, total domestic paper production
is expected to reach a sustained level of 200,000 tpy by 1985, to which
NATIONAL and RAKTA, the recipients of the proposed Bank loan, would contribute
about 86 percent.  At this level, domestic output would remain inadequate to
meet expected domestic demand, which is estimated to rise from an average of
310,000 tons a year during 1975-78 to about 350,000 tons in 1980 and about
450,000 tons in 1985. Domestic supplies in 1985 would cover only approxi-
mately 44 percent of total demand, with self-sufficiency in printing and
writing papers reaching a significantly higher level (68 percent) than in
industrial paper grades (32 percent). (No domestic production of newsprint
is anticipated during the period under review.) Imports would increase from



- 13 -
155,000 tpy in 1978 to 254,000 in 1985. Egypt will thus remain a significant
importer of paper, and paper exports are unlikely. In printing and writing
paper, there would appear to be no technological or fiber constraints to the
addition of economical domestic capacity. This would in fact be necessary by
the mid-1980's to help meet the growing demand and to maintain a reasonably
high level of self-sufficiency. In industrial paper grades, however, the
degree of self-sufficiency that can be achieved is more limited because
industrial users increasingly require high-strength, long-fibered kraft
papers, which cannot be produced using local raw materials.
Prices, Marketing and Distribution
42.       Paper prices in Egypt, with the exception of printing and writing
paper for educational purposes (para. 46), are for the most part determined
by the companies in line with prevailing market conditions and have closely
followed the rising international price trend of recent months. Since paper
can be imported directly in quantity without Government control, the prices
of domestic paper follow those of imports. It is expected that landed costs
of imported papers will continue to rise thus causing further increases of
domestic paper prices in the near future. Total duty charges are between 12
percent and 43 percent of the c&f value of imported papers, thus providing
some moderate protection to local mills, particularly to those producing
lighter industrial grades. Newsprint and sack kraft (including bags) for the
cement industry are imported duty-free.
43.       As a result of years of selling in a protected and under-supplied
market, domestic paper mills in the past had little difficulty in selling
whatever they produced, and no particular marketing skills needed to be devel-
oped. Although domestic mills have been exposed to rapidly changing market
conditions, little has changed in the way they market and distribute their
products. Overcoming these serious marketing deficiencies is important to
the success of the proposed project: the companies need to develop specific
marketing plans against which performance can be continuously measured. Tech-
nical assistance would be provided under the project to address this problem.
The Borrowers
44.       The proposed loan would benefit the two largest paper companies in
Egypt, NATIONAL and RAKTA, 1/ which together account for over 70 percent of
total domestic paper production. Formerly public sector companies, they are
now in the process of being shifted to the joint venture sector under Law 43
(para. 52). They are located adjacent to each other at Tabia, some 30 kilo-
meters east of Alexandria.
1/   During appraisal, a component was considered for SIMO, the third major
public sector company, but further studies, now included under the
project, are necessary.



- 14 -
45.       The National Paper Company (NATIONAL) was established as a private
sector company in 1940 and nationalized in 1961. It has an equity capital of
LE 6.9 million held by the Government, and a total labor force of some 2,500.
NATIONAL's plant facilities are at Tabia (the company's corporate headquarters)
and in Alexandria. The Tabia mill has an old rice straw pulp mill, several
waste paper pulping systems and six paper machines capable of producing
quality papers. The mill produces a wide range of types and grades of papers
and boards, involving no less than nine lines of stock preparation. Due to
frequent grade changes and the technical problems associated with operating
the older machines, machine efficiencies at the Tabia mill are low. The
steady decline of production in the Tabia mill, due to competition from
imported paper which is often of better quality and comparable cost and
increasing raw material costs, has resulted in a deterioration of the gross
profit margins to the extent that the company is operating at a loss. At the
company's ALPA mill in Alexandria, which has three very old paper machines
producing only low grade wrapping papers and board, the situation is different
since there is little competition from imports. Output has declined to a
lesser extent and several price increases of ALPA products have maintained a
marginal profitability of operations at this mill. However, given the age of
the machines the days of this mill are numbered.
46.       The General Company for Paper Industry (RAKTA) was established in
1958; and the LE 6.0 million share capital is at present divided among the
Government (64 percent), public sector organizations (20 percent) and the
remainder by some 12,000 private shareholders. It has currently a total staff
of about 2,400.   RAKTA's pulping and bleaching facilities consist of a rice straw
pulp mill (currently being expanded by RAKTA to increase production to 150 tpd by
early 1981, financed primarily by medium-term supplier credits), a waste paper pulp
line and a bleach plant for bleaching the straw pulp produce together with the
bagasse pulp purchased from the pulp mill at Edfu.   The facilities are operat-
ing below capacity, principally due to the absence of a reliable domestic
supply of chlorine which means the pulp is improperly bleached and of poor
quality, which in turn has led to capacity problems at the mill. There are
three paper machines (1 to 3) for the manufacture of printing and writing
papers, which together account for about three-quarters of the mill's output,
and a board machine (paper machine 4). These machines are relatively modern
although needed modification on paper machines 3 and 4 would increase the
quality and quantity of the company's products. The volume of production and
sales at RAKTA have until recently been relatively stable but increasing
production costs, coupled with the fact that the price of printing and writing
paper used for educational purposes (over 20 percent of total 1979 mill
output) has been fixed by the Government at LE 360 a ton on average (a level
substantially below international prices), have led to a decline in the
profitability of operations.   However, under the provisions of Law 43 both
RAKTA and NATIONAL would be allowed to set the prices of their products and their
product mix competitively without Government intervention, and with due regard to
market conditions (Project Agreements, Section 3.01(b)).



-15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
47.       This will be the Bank's first loan in support of Egypt's pulp and
paper sector. Bank involvement in the sector commenced in 1976 when it
financed a nationwide pulp and paper sector study, which outlined a develop-
ment strategy for the industry and identified a number of potentially viable
projects. It recommended specifically that priority be given, inter alia,
to improvements at the NATIONAL and RAKTA paper companies. A Bank mission
appraised the project in January 1979. In May 1979 the Government expressed
its preference to raise the funds necessary for the project, other than the
Bank loan, from non-government sources, and to change the companies' legal
status to Law 43. This was in line with its interest in increasing the role
of the private sector in industry. Since then the Bank has worked closely
with the Government, the companies and financial institutions to effect this
change, which is one of the first being applied to an operating public
sector company in its entirety and which would be used as an example for
others. Negotiations of the proposed loan were held in Washington from
April 3 to 4, 1980. The Egyptian delegation was led by Mr. Samir Koraiem,
Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Egypt
- Pulp and Paper" (No. 2842-EGT), dated April 15, 1980, is being distributed
separately.
Project Objective
48.       The Project is the lead effort in a long-term program to rehab-
ilitate and expand Egypt's pulp and paper sector and will provide physical
facilities and technical assistance to two established pulp and paper com-
panies.  Its objectives will be to (i) increase capacity by improving existing
machines, which will improve the financial viability of the companies as well
as lessen the country's requirements for imported paper; (ii) improve quality,
which will improve both the marketability and to some extent the price obtain-
able for domestic paper and board grades facing competition from imports; and
(iii) upgrade operating efficiency and reduce operating costs through the
introduction of improved maintenance and operating practices. The net effect
of the proposed improvements would be to increase total production of paper
and board from 33,000 tpy to 77,000 tpy at NATIONAL and from 52,000 to 95,000
tpy at RAKTA, reduce their average unit manufacturing costs in 1980 terms
from 410 to 386 LE/ton and 434 to 326 LE/ton, respectively, and save an esti-
mated $30 million a year in foreign exchange.
Project Description
49.       The project consists of two distinctly different components for
the NATIONAL and RAKTA companies, and a third component for studies to assist
the further rational development of the sector. For NATIONAL, the project
will: (i) add a modern waste paper sorting and treating facility; (ii)
improve paper machines 4-6, together with their associated stock preparation
systems; (iii) add a 7-MW turbo-generator unit to utilize the high pressure



- 16 -
steam generated in the boilers, which would replace the existing, outdated
2-MW unit; and (iv) provide a group of experienced maintenance, operating,
training and marketing personnel from an operating paper company, for periods
of up to two years. In February 1980, NATIONAL requested proposals from
competent operating companies and has agreed to appoint these specialists
by December 31, 1980 (Project Agreement, Section 2.02). For RAKTA, the
project will: (i) add an on-site chloralkali plant to produce about eight
tons of chlorine per day; (ii) add an off-machine coater, to produce coated
paper not currently available domestically and coated board; (iii) modify the
board machine to correct deficiencies in the original design; (iv) improve
paper machines 1-3 together with their assorted stock preparation systems; and
(v) provide technical assistance in the form of experienced maintenance,
operating and training personnel for periods up to two years.  RAKTA has
agreed that by October 31, 1980 it will submit to the Bank terms of reference
and a specific program for these specialists and that by June 30, 1981 they
will be appointed (Project Agreement, Section 2.02(b)).
50.       While the outline for a long-term program to rehabilitate and expand
the sector is contained in the nationwide pulp and paper study, additional
specific information is needed to formulate logical plans for the next steps
in the implementation of such a program. Thus the proposed project includes
studies to: (i) review the paper and board converting subsector with a view
to establishing the linkages between the primary paper consumers and the paper
production subsector, and to identify possible projects or subprojects in the
converting industry; and (ii) conduct an in-depth evaluation of the fiber
resources in Egypt, their long-term availability and cost, with a view to
determining the detailed priorities for further additions to pulp and paper
manufacturing capacity in the country. The terms of reference for these
studies have been agreed. The Government has also agreed to provide the funds
and other resources required for the studies and to exchange views with the
Bank on the results (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)). In order not to
pre-empt these results and to ensure that the raw material supply and markets
projected for the companies are preserved, the Government will consult with
the Bank prior to allowing any further major expansions in paper and board
manufacturing capacity until the studies are completed.
Project Execution
51.       Project Implementation Units (PIUs), drawn from the existing manage-
ment of the two companies, have been established within each of the companies.
They will be responsible for day-to-day implementation of the project.  The
personnel provided under the technical assistance component of the project
will be available to the PIUs to provide additional advice and support as
required. The PIUs will receive direct technical support from engineering
consultants already appointed for the detailed design engineering and con-
struction supervision of the project. The Bank has agreed to make a total
of up to $1.6 million available from funds reserved for technical assistance
in the First and Second Imports Loans/Credit to Egypt (Ln. 1062/Cr.524 and
Ln. 1456-EGT) to finance preliminary detailed engineering works for both
companies, in advance of loan effectiveness. This was done in order to
minimize delays in project implementation during the period the successor
companies will be established under Law 43 (paras. 52 and 53).



- 17 -
Legal Status of the Companies
52.       Both companies have shared the problems common to other public
sector companies in Egypt (para. 39). In particular, NATIONAL's management
has been weakened in recent years by difficulties in attracting and retaining
qualified staff. The proposed project will address the production problems of
the companies by helping to rehabilitate and expand the companies' existing
facilities; operational and managerial problems during the period of project
implementation will be tackled through technical assistance components and
covenants included in the project. In the longer term, however, the companies
need greater operational autonomy to ensure the success of the project. The
Egyptian Law 43 of 1974 (as amended by Law 32 of 1977), which was promulgated
to attract private investment, offers an appropriate vehicle to give companies
established under the Law managerial authority similar to private companies,
particularly in areas such as profit retention, investment decisions, hiring,
termination, renumeration and incentive policies. Besides providing the
necessary long-term flexibility to these two companies for the effective
operation of the proposed project, the Government considers this a useful
precedent which it may pursue for modernizing and expanding other public
sector enterprises. During this process, the Bank and the companies have
worked closely with local financial institutions to develop the capability for
duplicating this experience in the future.
53.       The Government and the companies have initiated the necessary steps
to establish successor companies, under Law 43, with NATIONAL and RAKTA, 1/
and investment banks as shareholders.  The Government and the companies have
agreed to complete the necessary steps to establish the two successor companies
by February 28, 1981 in such a manner as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 and Project Agreements, Section
2.09). This would be done by the old companies participating in the estab-
lishment of the successor companies by way of contribution in kind i.e. by
transferring all or part of their assets to the successor companies; new
investors would participate in terms of additional equity. While all of the
assets necessary to the efficient operation of the successor companies (e.g.,
the operating and management functions) will be transferred, some of the
assets may be retained by the old companies and leased to the successor
companies on reasonable terms. This will be reflected in the Shareholders'
(Founders') Agreements of the successor companies which the Bank will approve
prior to their execution and depends upon the outcome of the evaluation of the
companies' existing assets now being undertaken by the Government (para. 56).
This approach was taken because the generally accepted evaluation method in
Egypt assigns to physical assets such as land a value which could be quite
high for industrial purposes. This would ultimately result in a proportionate
1/   The Government is the major shareholder in the existing companies and
would be the major shareholder through them in the successor companies.



- 18 -
shareholding ratio for the new investors too low to interest them in investing
in the two companies. Thus, it may be necessary for the existing companies to
retain these assets and lease them to the successor companies. 1/
Project Costs and Financing Plan
54.       Total project costs, excluding $5.1 million of interest during
construction, are estimated at $71.5 million of which $58.2 million (or 81
percent) is foreign exchange. A detailed cost breakdown is provided in the
summary. No allowance for import duties has been included as all machinery
and equipment will be imported by the successor companies under Law 43, which
provides for duty exemption. Capital costs are based on estimates produced by
the consultants in 1979 and updated by the Bank in 1980. They include incre-
mental working capital and appropriate physical and price escalation contin-
gencies of 6.6 and 15.2 percent on the total base cost estimate respectively,
which are considered reasonable in view of the relatively short period of
project implementation and the small amount of civil works.   Engineering and
consultancy services have been calculated at a unit cost of $8,300 per man-
month on average which includes salaries, social costs and overheads.
55.       Because legal restrictions preclude Government guarantees to private
institutions, the proposed Bank loan of $50 million would be made to the Gov-
ernment, at 8.25 percent interest per annum for a period of 15 years including
four and a half years of grace. The Government would onlend NATIONAL and RAKTA
$23 and $27 million respectively under subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory
to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(c)). Execution of the subsidiary
loan agreements would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01). These loans would be at the same maturity as the Bank loan and
would be made at an interest rate of 10 percent per annum. The companies will
assume the foreign exchange risk. In addition to the Bank loan, $0.8 million
from Import Credit/Loan I and II (para. 51) has been made available to each
of the companies by the Government to finance the portion of the engineering
contracts prior to effectiveness of the Bank loan. No retroactive financing
is required.
56.       The proposed loan would cover 70 percent of total project cost and
86 percent of the foreign exchange requirements of the project. At the
request of the Government which is striving to increase private sector partic-
ipation in industrial development, the remaining financing required for both
equity and debt will be raised from local and foreign financial institutions.
The companies have retained the Arab Investment Bank 2/ to manage their
I/   Some of the parcels of land owned by the two companies are quite valuable
in terms of market value. This is true especially of NATIONAL where
the ALPA Mill is located in an industrial zone in what is now downtown
Alexandria. It is envisaged that some of the land of the two companies
not necessary for their efficient operation and the ALPA Mill which
will be closed down by 1984 would be retained by the old companies and
leased to the successor companies.
2/   A private Egyptian investment bank formed under Law 43 with an authorized
capital of $50 million.



- 19 -
financing operations, and about ten financial institutions have already
expressed their interest in participating in the project. The extent of their
participation will depend upon the evaluation which is being undertaken by the
Government and the value of the shares of the successor companies which would
result. A preliminary assessment of the companies' net worth indicates that
it is possible to simultaneously attract new investors as well as protect the
interest of the existing investors. Thus, unless the value of the assets of
the existing companies is over estimated, it should not be difficult to raise
the equity funds required and reach a fair agreement on any further commit-
ments between the major shareholders. At the time of the establishment of
the two successor companies, the Shareholders' (Founders') Agreements will
incorporate arrangements for covering equity subscriptions, cost overruns and
financing of operating losses during project implementation, by the major
shareholders. The Government has agreed that it will cause the major sub-
scribers and shareholders (predominantly the Government) to provide for any
shortfalls to equity at the establishment of the successor companies, as well
as the funds for any cash requirements due to operating losses and for any
cost overruns until the completion of the Project, 1/ on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       All contracts to be financed by the Bank loans will be awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) consistent with Bank
procurement guidelines, with the following exceptions: (i) where it can
be clearly demonstrated that modifications to existing machinery requires
purchases from the original supplier for reasons of compatability, and where
alternative suppliers have been considered and rejected on grounds which
the Bank finds reasonable, direct purchases may be permitted (not expected
to exceed $4 million equivalent in the case of NATIONAL, or $5 million
equivalent in the case of RAKTA); or (ii) items costing less than $100,000
each to a total of not more than $2,000,000 equivalent for each company, may
be procured through international shopping on the basis of suitability,
availability and price. For contracts awarded through ICB, for the purpose
of bid evaluation, a 15 percent margin of preference or the actual tariff on
equivalent imported goods, whichever is the lower, will be accorded to quali-
fied local manufacturers who participate in ICB.
58.       Bank funds will be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign exchange
expenditures except in the rare case where a local manufacturer is awarded a
contract under ICB, in which case the Bank loan will be disbursed against 100
percent of the ex-factory price of locally produced items.
Employment and Training
59.       As with many of the public sector companies in Egypt, both NATIONAL
and RAKTA have a substantially larger number of employees than are necessary
1/   For this purpose, project completion is defined as the attainment of
80 percent of the production levels projected for each company: 77,000
tpy for NATIONAL and 95,000 tpy for RAKTA.



- 20 -
for efficient production. (It is currently estimated that approximately 40
percent of the labor is redundant.) The companies' present policy of attri-
tion is leading to a gradual reduction in staff and Law 43 should provide
management with more flexibility to fully address the problem of over-staffing;
but the project also contains a number of specific elements which should lead
to a gradual improvement in manpower utilization: (i) the technical assis-
tance component of the project includes "Training and Manpower Advisers" for
both NATIONAL and RAKTA, who would help determine efficient levels of manning,
to identify positions where surplus manpower can be used, and to identify any
surplus manning over and above these levels; and (ii) opportunities exist for
a substantial increase in the useful utilization of labor in waste paper
sorting and upgrading, which when introduced would lead to improved product
quality and a lessening of the requirements for imported pulp.  The Training
and Manpower Advisers would also revitalize the existing but underutilized
training programs for operators and tradesmen. NATIONAL and RAKTA have agreed
that by December 31, 1981, they will provide the Bank with detailed reports of
the Training and Manpower Advisers concerning present staffing-levels, their
impact on plant efficiency, and proposals for more effective manpower utiliza-
tion (Project Agreements, Section 2.03).
Raw Materials and Utilities
60.       Supply of raw materials (rice straw, bagasse and imported pulp and
waste paper) for the expanded production of the companies are adequately
assured, as are adequate fuel supplies. While there have been intermittent
outages in power supplies in the recent past, two new major thermal power
stations in the Alexandria area and the proposed turbo-generator unit included
under the project for NATIONAL should alleviate these problems.
Environmental Impact
61.       The proposed project would have a beneficial effect on the environ-
ment:  it will reduce fiber losses from the mills from their present high
levels of approximately 10 percent to about 5 percent considered normal for
plants of this type.   In addition, RAKTA has initiated a program of experi-
mentation to develop methods which are technically feasible and economically
viable to deal with discharges from its pulp mill 1/ and has recently received
grant funds from the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany for pilot-
scale trials of a system which would initially remove and subsequently
incinerate the liquor to recover chemicals. RAKTA has agreed that it will
keep the Bank informed about the progress of these studies (Project Agreement,
Section 3.05(b)). Moreover, both NATIONAL and RAKTA have agreed that they
will maintain and operate existing pollution control facilities to minimize
pollution to the extent possible under existing technology (Project Agreements,
Section 3.05).
1/   To date, no system has been devised which is capable of dealing effec-
tively with pulping liquors from rice straw which are very high in
silica.



- 21 -
Financial Projections
62.       For the purpose of the financial projections, product prices have
been assumed to escalate in line with international rates with the exception
of some of the lower grades of board and paper produced by NATIONAL (not
traded internationally) where higher domestic escalation rates have been used.
The project provides financial rates of returns before and after taxes of 20
percent and 19 percent for NATIONAL and 23 percent and 20 percent for RAKTA,
which are unusually high for industrial projects because of the rehabilitation
nature of the project. Since the project involves a very small civil works
component, the risk of associated delays are minor, but the financial rate of
return is sensitive to the margin between input and output prices. Accord-
ingly, the Government has agreed that it will allow the companies under the
provisions of Law 43 to set their prices competitively (para. 46).
63.       With the expansion under the project, the financial situation of
both companies in the long run should be satisfactory. Both NATIONAL and
RAKTA have agreed that they: (i) will maintain after project completion a
current ratio of at least 1.2 and a debt/equity ratio of 60/40; (ii) will
limit any pre-payment of debt, including any repayment of Government loans,
any dividend or distribution with respect to share capital if, as a result,
the current ratio would fall below 1.4; (iii) will not incur any long-term
debt if future debt service ratios will fall below 1.5 and their debt/equity
ratio will exceed 60/40; and (iv) will not embark on any other modernization
or long-term investment program requiring investments in excess of $5 million
equivalent each in one year without prior consultation with the Bank before
the completion of the project (Project Agreements, Sections 3.04, 4.03, 4.04).
Economic Benefits and Risks
64.       The economic rate of return provided by the project is 20 percent
for NATIONAL and 32 percent for RAKTA. The rate of return is higher for RAKTA
than for NATIONAL because the economics of producing paper with a larger
component of domestically available rice straw, as is the case in RAKTA,
are inevitably better than production with a relatively large component of
imported pulp. The rates of return are considerably higher than could be
expected for investments in new projects in the pulp and paper sector in Egypt
or in any other country. This reflects the fact that most of the components
of the project are designed to improve and expand existing facilities and thus
obtain benefits which are partially due to investments which have been made in
the past.
65.       The project will address some of the major problems in the two
largest companies in Egypt's pulp and paper sector. Besides doubling the
production of the two companies, it would also provide the means for improv-
ing the quality of domestically produced grades of paper and board so that
consumers of these products who are not forced to import in order to get
the quality they require for their converting operations will buy locally
produced paper. It will also lead to significant savings in foreign exchange.
After project completion, the net foreign exchange savings will amount to
approximately $30 million annually, compared to the project's estimated



- 22 -
foreign exchange requirements (excluding studies) of $62 million. In addi-
tion, the technical assistance to be provided under the project will expand
paper-making technology in Egypt, improve the efficiency of operation of
existing as well as new facilities, and serve as a training ground for other
pulp and paper operations in Egypt.
66.       The success of the project rests on the fulfillment of two basic
assumptions: (i) that the project will not only provide the means for improv-
ing the quality of domestically produced grades of paper and board but that
potential consumers of these products will, in fact, buy the companies' paper
instead of buying imported products; and (ii) that the management of the two
companies will be able to implement and operate the new facilities efficiently.
The specific measures which have been taken to address these risks are: first,
to provide adequate outside qualified technical assistance during project
implementation and early years of operation; and second, the establishment of
successor companies under Law 43 which will have the flexibility and authority
to develop compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the National Paper
Company and the General Company for Paper Industry (RAKTA) and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.       Features of the project which are of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III. The special condition of effectiveness of the loan
is: execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and
NATIONAL and RAKTA (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 29, 1980
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEEI
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYfRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                 EGYPT                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL           1001.4                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULT'RAL      29.6                               MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME    INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c  GROUP /d  GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  90.0       150.0    400.0           1532.5      209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)    298.0        275.0    473.0            838.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     25.9        32.6      37.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 38.0        42.3      43.9            49.0       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      58.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        90.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       26.0        33.0      39.0            19.9       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTRAL LAND    982.0       1125.0   1324.0             99.0      252.0       149.0
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.0        42.1      40.0            45.6       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                        55.0         54.7      56.0            51.4       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.2       4.0             2.8        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.3       2.1             3.0        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              6.0         3.4       2.7             5.2        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.0         40.0      36.0            43.7       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    19.0         15.0      13.0            13.5       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8/f       3.0       2.3             3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       206.0     187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          9.0      21.1              *-       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          92.6        99.0      95.0            90.8       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQLTIREMENTS)                  95.0       106.0    113.0             99.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          66.0        66.0      70.7            63.6       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0/&      16.0      16.0            16.0       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     31.0        23.0      18.0            15.9       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   46.0         51.0      54.0            53.8       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..           ..    108.0               ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *'          *-      66.0            56.4       26.3        34.4
URBAN                               ..          ..      88.0            83.4       58.5        57.9
RURAL                               .,          ..      50.0            34.3       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..            59.1       16.0        40.8
UIRBAN                              ..          ..        ..            78.2       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            26.4        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2600.0      1910.0    1190.0/h        3677.0    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NLRSING PERSON     2730.0/h    1640.0/h  1150.0/h        1730.6    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            480.0       460.0    460.0            577.0    1417.1        726.5
URBAN                               ..       290.0    250.0               ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                               ..      2110.0   2090.0               ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..            21.8       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF NOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.0          ..       5.8             5.8        5.3         5.4
URBAN                              4.8          *-       5.6             5.5        4.9         5.1
RURAL                               ..          ..       6.0             6.0        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.9          *-       1.8
URBAN                              1.6          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             38.0          ..      45.7            45.1       23.5        28.1
URBAN                             37.8          ..      77.0            67.9       17.8        45.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      19.6              *-         *-         9.9



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                   Page  2  of  5
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
EGYPT                      - - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)   AG
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 A  ESTIMATE A       REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                66.0        69.0       72.0            85.0       63.3        82.7
IOALE                80.0        84.0       88.0           103.7       79.1        87.3
FEALE                52.0        53.0      56.0             66.0       48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 16.0         32.0      42.0            27.6       16.7        21.4
MALE                 24.0        44.0       54.0            39.2       22.1        33.0
FEAEE                 9.0        21.0      29.0             20.8       10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SEC01DARY) 22.0          19.0      18.0             4.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        38.0       40.0            32.6       41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                         16.0        25.0       29.0            23.4       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       26.0          ..       44.0            41.4       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         4.0       6.4             16.7        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        58.0       132.0      138.0           147.9       27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.9        16.0       17.0            36.0        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   *.        22.0       21.0            17.9        5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CWPITA  3.0          2.0        ..             2.9        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     7482.0      9319.0    9600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   7.3         7.2        7.6             8.6       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             58.4        54.4       51.0            43.0       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                12.2        18.8      26.0             23.7       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               28.9        28.0       28.0            26.7       36.9        37.1
MALE                                53.2         51.5      51.3            46.4       52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               4.2         4.1        4.3             5.1       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6          1.6       1.8             1.8        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/1       17.4L11  22.0             21.4         ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.4/L      42.8.LI   49.2             48.6         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS    6.6LI        7.0/id   5.1              5.3         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17. 5L.      18. 7/L 1  14.8           15.0         ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      116.0           201.3       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..       84.0           134.2       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      153.0           288.6       91.9       179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      65.0            107.0       54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       21.0            22.9       44.1        24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       25.0            31.2       53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   North Africa & Middle East;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle
Income ($281-550 per cApita, 1976);  /f  1950-55;   aj  1960-62;  /h  Registered, not all
practicing in the country;  /i  1964-65;  /1  rural expenditure only.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 25   -
AFIX I
DEFINITION$S OF SOCIAL INDICATRgS                                                     Pago  3 of  5
AQg:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are pop.lstion-relghted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator Sad the meet
Populated country in each gronp.  Coveageg  of countriesa esmug the indicators depends on gvailability of date and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group aver-es. for Capital Surplus Oil Exportere mod indicator. of accss. to rat.. and secreta disposal. housing, incom distribution and poverty .re
simple population-weighted geometric meanew without the excluaion of enttrem values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population per hospital bed- total, urban, end rural - Population (tota1,
Total - Total surface area comprising Land araa and islsand raters,                          urban,. and rural) divided by their respective number Of hospital beds
Anicltu..l - Host recent estimate of agricultural ars  rsead temporarily                     available in public aNd Privaet  general end apeciali.ed hospital and re-
Or permanently for crops. pastubas, market and kitchem gardens or to                      habilitation  centers.  hospitals erm establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. gural hospitasl, however. Include health and sedi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita -stimates at current market prices,                     cal centrer  nOt permAnently staffed by a physician (hut bya& medical as-
calculated by smem conversion method as World Bank Atlae (1975-77 basis);                 sietani, nurse. midwife. ertc.) Which offer in-patient arccomeodation and
1960. 1970. and 1977 data.                                                                provida a limitsd range of medical facilities.
Admissioam Per hospital had - Total number of adaisai.n. to Or diecharg.e
ENgG~Y CciNSUsu'ION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                      from  hospitals divided by the number of bads..
(coal and lignite, petrolaum. natural gas and hydro- * nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms  of coal equi,elent per capita.                    HtOUSING
Averag Sireo of household (par.ons par household) - total, urban. and rural-
POPULATlION AND VITAI STATISTICS                                                             A hou.. h.ld consists of a group Of individuals rho share l1ivin  quarters
Total  mopulation. mid-year (maillitons) - As of July 1; if not available,                  and their main male.  A boarder or lodger may or may not he included in
average of tw  o ed-yatetmts   1960, 1970, and 1977 date,                                 the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban populationt(p:,cost of.total)   R atio of urban to total poPu1a-                      hold vary.
tlot,; different deinitions Of urban areas many affect comparability                   Average number of Persona per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nom-
of dare amog coun.tries,                                                                  her of Persona per room in .ll, urb.n. end rural  occupied convontion..l
Population density                                                                          dwellings,  respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent stroctureo and
Per  sq. he. - Hid-year population per square kilometer (1ii hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (Percent of dwellIngs) - total. urban. and roral -
Per usq. he. agriculture land - Computed as above fir agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
o-ly.                                                                                     of tota.1  urban. and rural dwellings  -ep-t iv-ly.
Population age structure (percent) - Cbildren (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yerar), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adiusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total. and urban - Compound annual                     Prisary school - total, and femle - Total eod female enrollment of all ages
growth r.tas of total and urban  id-yoar Populationna for 1950-60.                        at the primary level as percentagen of res pectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-li years but adjusted for
Crude birth race (per thousand) - Annual lIIe births per thousand Of                        different lengths of primary educa.tion; for countries with universal edo-
mid-year populatiOon  tee-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed lii percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recenkt estimate.                      above the Official school age.
Crude death rate (Por thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secoodary school - tot.l, and femals - Computed as above; secondary aduca-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 end 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in. 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training inetructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daugbter. a woman will bsar                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correepondence courses are generally
in bar normal reproductive period If she experiences prasent age-                         exclded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year aveagso  ending in 1960.                   Vocational enroll1ent (Percent of secon.dary) - Vocational institutione  ir~-
1970, sod 1975.                                                                           .dud   technical.  industrial, or other programs uhich operate independently
Family olanoing - acceptors, annua  (thousands) - Annual number Of                          or as departments nf son..dary inetitutions.
acceptors Of birth-control devices under auspices of national fmnily                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
plannling program,                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers uS teachers in the.corre-
family pia...in. - users (parcenut Of married romeo) - P-rcetage of                         eponding level.
married woman of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rats (percent) - Literate aduits (able to read and write) us
devices to all married women in smem  age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged iS yearn and Over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSPHTION
lnode  of fond production Per capita (1970-100) - lndes number of par                    P.ms.near care (Oar thousand population) - Passenear curs comprise actor corn
capita annual production of all food comeodities.                                       seating less than eight persons; socludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per caxita supply of Calories (percent of re,imet)-  optdfo                               vehicles.
ener gy equivalent Of net food suppies avla             ncutyPar capita               Radioreivs  prtoanpputo)- All types ofresvr  for radio
per day.  Available supplies -comprise domestic production. imports less                broadcasts to general public per thoueand of population; enclud.s unlicensed
mapo rts. and changes in stock.  Not supplies seclude animal food. seeds.               r.ceiveru in coontrise and in years when registretion of rsdio mata ran in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  ge-                    effect; data for recent yeers may not be con,parable since most countries
quirements were estimated by PAO besed on physiological needs for nor-                  abolisehd licensing.
ml ectivity and health cons.idering envir.tenalst.  temmperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to g .nert
weights, age and sea distributions Of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand populAtion; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level.                                                        tries and in years when r-gitrration of TiV seea wan in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams par day) - Protein coolant of per                    Newspaper circulation (par thousand p ultion) - Shore the average circula-
capita net sp1of fn  per day.  Met supply of fond is defined as                           tion of "daily general interest newpaer' defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requiremato for all countries established by U(SDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is conIdered to
a minim,n allowance Of h0 grans of total protein Per day end 20 grams                     he "daily" if it appears at least four times a reek.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 1i grams should be animal protein.              Cinea  annual attendance par capita par year - Ease.d on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than these of 75 gross of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinenes and mobile
23 gram  of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units..
PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita Protein sapmlo from animal sad pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived from ainials and Pulses in grame per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - fr-no.i-ally active persona.. Includ ine a-nd
Chil  (aes IA)  ortaityrate(pe  thosan)  -Annual deaths per thous-            forces and unemployed but excluding  soswvn    tudent.. etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tions in varioua countries are not comparable.
Fpale (percent) - Fema le labor force as parcentage of total labor force.
HgEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (Percent) - Labor force Sn farming,  forestry, hunting and fi.hing
Life expectany  t birth (yearLs) - Average number of years of life                          asparrentag  of  .totllbrfra
remsaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960. 1970,                 Indusr  (pret      aor force in mining, costruction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gao an percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths Of Infants under                    Partlcloation rate Cpercent) - total. "ale, and famale - Total, male, an,
One year of age. per thousand live birhts.                                                cemale labor forc  e a  percentages of their renyerti-e poyclati.os.
Access to safe rtaer (Parc...t of population) - total, urban  and rural -                   Theme are T'L's adjusted p-cticip.tion racsre. -fietine ag-ocx
a                N,~~~0-er of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   utrorturo of the population, and 1-r. tine trend.
oaf, water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Ec.onmic dependency ratio - tatic of population under iS and 65 andoert
uncontaminated wator mucb as that from protectad borehole., apringa,                      the labor force in age group or 15-64 yearn.
sod sanitary welis) as percentages of their respective populations.
1. an urban area a public fountain or standpoet located not sore                      INO    DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within tee-                    Pemrcentage of private income (both in cash sod hind) received by richest 5
..oneble access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access won1d                    percent. richest 20 percent. poorest 20 percent, sod poorent 40 percent
imply that the h...ewif. or momher. of the houa..hold do not have to                      Of households.
spend a disproportionata part of the day in fetching the family's
water ..edo.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to eacet. dispooal (percent of Population) - total, urban. and                    Estimated abeolute poverty income level (US09 per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Numbr of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                         Absolute po...rty income level is that ics  level below  hitch a minimal
disposal as parcentafas of their r.sp.etiva populatians.  E.crota                         nutritionally adequate diet pius essential non-food reqIroements in not
disposal ma"y include the collection end disposal, with Ot without                        affordable.
treateent, of human oexrsta and waet.-watei by water-borne systems                     Estimated relative p.verty income level (US$ Par -asita) - urban and  -rurl -
or the use of.pit privies and similar installations.                                      Raletive poverty income level is that income leval less than One-third
Popuatio perphyscian - Ppulation divided by number of practicing                     per capita personal income of the coun try.
physician. qualiftad fro  a medical schoonl at university level.                       Estimated Population below poverty incoe. level (p-ccent) _-uban and voclI
Poplaton  er  ursng  ersn -Population divided by number of                          Percent of populatior (urban and rural) who are either 'absolute poor  or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relat'ive poor" whichever is greater.
aseitatat narsese.
Economlc mod Social Data Diviaion
t_oonic Analysis end Projectiona Dnpartxent



-   26   -                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATOR5
GNP PER CAPITA (1978)-US$400                                             MID-1978 POPULATION - 38.7 Million
(World Bank Atlas Methodology)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.      '4                     1961-66 1/        1967-74 1/        1975-78 2/
GNP at Market Prices               13,600       100.0                       5.4               3.6             13.3
Gross Domestic Investment           3,590        26.4                      10.7               5.4             24.9
Current Account Balance            -1,760        12.9
Export of Goods, NFS                3,530        26.0                       4.3               6.2              7.8
Import of Goods, NFS                6,490        47.7                       8.8               9.2              7.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                  Labor Force 3/              V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %                 Mln.      /                US $           %
Agriculture                         3,350        28.7               4.135   41.1                  810        15.7
Industry 4/                         3,460        29.6               1.902   18.9                 1820        35.4
Distributive Sector                 2,340        20.0               1.560   15.5                 1500        29.1
Services                            2,530        21.7               2.472   24.5                 1020        19.8
Total/Average              11680/2920       100.0              10.069  100.0                1160       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 5/
US$ Mln.           % of GNP
1978         1974         1978
Current Receipts                    5,310            33.9         39.1
Current Expenditure                 4,640            34.0         34.2
Current Surplus/Deficit               670           -0.1           4.9
Capital Expenditures                3,310           13.8          24.3
External Financing (net)            1,140             3.3          8.4
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1973         1974         1975         1976          1977         1978
(Million L.E. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     1207         1515         1883          2417         3185         4090
Bank Credit to Public Sector              1852         2338         3527         4123          4775         6035
Bank Credit to Private Sector              102          149          230          251           434          570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         31.7         36.1         38.5         38.5          43.4         47.5
Wholesale Price Index (1973 = 100)   100.0            112.4        119.1         131.4        145.0        157.7
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                     10.4         12.4          6.0          10.3         10.3          8.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector               9.6         26.2         50.9         16.9          15.8         26.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector             10.9         46.1         54.4           9.1         72.9         31.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the 1978 weighted exchange rate of US$1.496 = I I.E.
1/ At 1965 Constant Prices.
2/ At 1975 Constant Prices.
3/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
4/ Manufacturing and Mining, Petroleum, Electricity and Construction.
5/ Local Covernment comprises a small part of General Government.
not applicable



- 27 -
ANWEY I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1975       1976       1977       1978                                       US$ Mln.   t
(US$ million)
Cotton                       354       19.6
Exports of Goods, NFS            2,194       2,759      3,537     3,530           Yarn and Textiles            364       20.4
Imports of Coods, NFS           -4,931      -4,910    -5,486    -6,490            Petroleum                    442       24.7
Other Agriculture            224       12.S
Imports of Foreign                -140        -240      -330       -290           All other comoodities        405         M
oil Companies
Total               1,789      100.0
Workers' Remittanres               366         755        894     1,760
Other Factor Services (Net)    -104           -202      -205       -270
Net Factor Services                262         553        689     1490
EXTERNAL DEBT (MLT). DECD!BER 31. 1978
Balance on Current Account   -2,615         -1,838    -1,590    -1,760
Amortization                      -600        -734      -812      . -900                                             US Mln.
Tot-al Deficit                  -3,215     -2,572    12,402    -2,660
-ol Dfi  -2 2Public debt, incl. guaranteed  9,970!f
Repayments on public debt          4k*
Direct Foreign Investment          140         300       434        440           Interest on public debt             390
Grants                           1,076         792       445        345
HLT Borro-ing                    2,509       1,622     3,027      2585
3,725       2,714     3,906      3,370
3,725     2,714 '               3.370          DEB  SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978 21  23.n
Qth^r Cap I     N aet)            -152         236      -961       -495
Residual                          -420        -333      -348       -145
Increase in Reserves (+)           -62          45       195         71
Gross Reserves (end year)           294        339        534        605
Fuel and Related Materials
Tmports
of "hich: Petroleum          -477        -385      -250       -200
Eyports
of vhich: Petroleum           164         268       600        730
1/ $10,590 million as of July 31, 1979.
2/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services.
February 4, 1980



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 8
TEE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit        Approved                                                                      less cancellations
Numbers              FY        Borrower        Purpose                                 Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR             60          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                    56.5      --          -
Cr 181-UAR             70          UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                      --    26.0          1.9
Cr 284-UAR             72          ARE           Railways I                               --    30.0          0.8
Cr 393-UAR             73          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                     --    36.0          4.0
Cr 412-UAR             73          ARE           Development Industrial Bank 1/           --    15.0          0.3
Cr 423-UAR             74          ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation            --    18.5          3.5
Cr 437-UAR             74          ARE           Population                               --      5.0         0.1
Cr 484-UAR             74          ARE           Talkha Fertilizer                        --    20.0          0.4
Cr 524-EGT             75          ARE           Ag/lnd Imports                           --    35.0          0.3
Ln 1062-EGT            75          ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                          35.0      --         1.2
Ln 1064-EGT            75          SCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation               50.0      --        21.7
Ln 1085-EGT            75          ARE           Tourah Cement                           40.0      --         4.0
Ln 1098-EGT            75          ER            Railways II                             37.0      --        10.4
Cr 548-EGT             75          ARE           Telecommunications                       --    30.0          3.1
Cr 576-EGT             76          ARE           Development Industrial Bank II 1/    --    25.0              0.5
Ln 1239-EGT            76          APA           Alexandria Port                         45.0      --        32.7
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/       76          ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                50.0      --        42.3
Cr 637-EGT             76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                  --    40.0         23.1
Ln 1285-EGT            76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                 10.0      --        10.0
Ln 1292-ERT            76          ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                  52.0      --        34.8
Ln 1369-EGT            77          AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                 56.0      --        45.2
Cr 681-EGT             77          ARE           Education                                --    25.0          5.8
Cr 719-EGT             77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                   --    27.0         13.9
Ln 1439 _EGT           77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                  27.0      --        27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/       77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                  12.0      --        12.0
Ln 1453-EGT            77          EEA           Regional Electrification                48.0      --        28.6
Ln 1456-EGT            77          ARE           Industrial Imports                      70.0      --        38.0
Ln 1-005-ERT           77          ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiation and               2.5      __         1.1
Engineering
Ln 1482-EGT            78          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                   100.0      --        41.4
Cr 1-20-EGT            78          ARE           Water Supply Engineering                 --      2.0         0.2
Cr 774-EGT             78          ARE           Telecommunications II                    --    53.0         53.0
Ln 1533-EGT            78          DIB           Development Industrial Bank III         40.0      --        28.0
Cr 830-EGT             78          ARE           Agricultural Development                 --    32.0         32.0
Cr 831-EGT             78          ARE           Urban Development                        --    14.0         13.7
Cr 850-EGT             79          ARE           Second Population                        --    25.0         24.9
Cr 868-EGT             79          ARE           Second Education                         --    40.0         38.7
Ln 1-14-EGT            79          ARE           New Valley Phosphate Engineering    11.0          --         4.3
and Technical Assistance
Cr 909-EGT             79          ARE           Tourism                                  --    32.5         32.5
Ln 1732-ERT            79          ARE           Gulf of Suez Gas                        75.0      --        75.0
Cr 935-EGT             79          ARE           Shoubrah El Kheima                              37.0        37.0
Thermal Power
Ln 1733-EGT            79          EEA           Shoubrah El Kheima                     102.0      --       102.0
Thermal Power 4/
80          ARE           Agroindustries  3_/                      --    45.0         45.0
80          DIB           DIB  3/                                 50.0      --        50.0
80          ARE           Textiles  3/                            69.0      --        69.0
Totals                                                                                 1038.0  613.0       1013.4
Of which has been repaid                                                                 58,5
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                                                              7.5
Of which has been repaid                                                 7.4              0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                         979.4   613.0
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                       Type of Business                       Loan          Equity       Total
1976           Arab Ceramic Company          Ceramic Industry                      4.25             .75         5.0
(Plus .635 contingency commitment)  (5.635)
1977           Nile Clothing Company         Ready-Made Garment Industry           0.40            0.20         0.60
1978           Delta Sugar Company           Agricultural Production,             20.0             2.00        22.00
mainly sugar             (Plus 1.0 standby commitment)          (23.00)
1979           Ismailia Misr Poultry         Food and Food Processing               5.97           1.52         7.49
Company
1979           Ismailia Fish Farming         Food and Food Processing               1.929           .453        2.382
Company                                             (Plus 0.1 contingency commitment)   (2.482)
32.549           4.923      37.472
(Plus contingency commitment)         (39.207)
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Not yet signed
4/ Not included is EEC Sp. Action Credit 20 of $35.0



ANNEX II
29                       Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The only outstanding activity on this project is installation of
field drainage, which remains to be accomplished on about 9 percent of the
project area of 950,000 feddans. Progress on this activity is slow due mainly
to management problems with public sector contracting companies. Work is
complete on other major components including some 1,700 km surface drains and
eleven pumping stations. The Drainage Authority expects to achieve full
completion of the project ending December 1980.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project generally was implemented satisfactorily but progress
on the electrical signalling items which is 95 percent complete, has been at a
standstill for the last two years due to difficulties with municipal authori-
ties regarding site occupation. Successive extensions of the loan period have
been necessary.  ER has been informed that no further extensions will be
agreed beyond the present closing date. The disbursement total is likely
to be US$29 million.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Work is almost complete on some 1,640 km surface drains in 300,000
feddan project area. Of the five pumping stations, one is operational and
work on the others is about 82 percent complete. Installation of tile drains
is about 61 percent complete. Progress on this activity is slow because of
inadequate management by contractors and physical difficulties arising from
sugarcane which occupies in the cropping pattern some 50 percent of the area.
Bilharzia Control Program is proceeding as scheduled. Progress on procurement
is satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in 1982. The remainder of the full project is being financed by a loan from
the Saudi Fund for Development. The foreign cost estimates for the project
have remained basically unchanged, but the local component continues to
escalate mainly due to delays caused by shortage of local funds.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date:  January 22, 1975; Closing Date:  April 1, 1980.
Project is nearing mechanical completion; procurement has been
completed. According to the latest indication, the project is expected to be
commissioned by mid-1980, about two years behind schedule, partly because of
delays in civil works and procurement.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.3 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively.   The Government will utilize the uncommitted funds
for a portion of the funds necessary for engineering services for the
proposed Pulp and Paper project.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress in implementation has improved and about 85 percent of the
project funds have been committed. The design of the last major item of
equipment to be financed from the loan is now being undertaken. Because of
the initial delay in implementation, the project is now expected to be com-
pleted only by December 1981; the closing date of the loan will, therefore,
have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items are
already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further delayed
project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is expected to be
only towards early 1981.



ANNEX II
-  31  -                    Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is also behind
schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock maintenance
with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate companies with
overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions. The 1980-84 draft
investment program contains many large investments including new lines for
which no economic justification has been demonstrated. The financial situation
is poor and a deficit of LE 38 million was forecast for 1979. After many
years without tariff increases, substantial increases in freight tariffs were
made in 1979, and passenger fare increases are promised for 1980. A draft
decree which would establish a National Railway authority and aims to give the
railways inter alia considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and
staff salaries is under discussion.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to
the Telecommunications II project. Physical installations are about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement actions and in building construction.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date:  October 31, 1980.
The credit is now fully committed and $24.5 million has been dis-
bursed as of April 2, 1980.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The contract for the major part of the civil works and dredging was
awarded in April 1979 and work is now progressing. Procurement of equipment is
also progressing satisfactorily. Because of the delayed start of the main
civil works, the project is now expected to be completed only by June 1982; the
closing date of the loan will, therefore, have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date:  December 20, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project is now over two years behind schedule. Work on the
drainage and irrigation components of the project is proceeding although



-  32  -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
behind schedule. The seed component has major problems, which the Bank is now
discussing with Egyptian officials. The Agricultural Development Lending Unit
in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to ensure
that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and
to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded
to allow financing of agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing
liberalized.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work is progressing in accordance with the revised schedule on some
1,602 km of surface drains in 500,000 feddans. Overall progress is about
55 percent. As compared to appraisal target of 240,000 feddans, field drainage
is complete on only about 24,000 feddans. This shortfall has resulted from a
delay of almost two years with supply and erection of USAID financed equipment
for three PVC pipe-making factories. As these factories are now nearing
production, the work of installing tile drains will be accelerated. Contracts
for the same have already been awarded covering the entire project area.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a year and a half delay caused by a
later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is
now estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local currency)
more than appraised, due to increased scope of civil works and general price
increases of construction materials beyond what was expected at appraisal.
No difficulties are foreseen in financing this, although some government
equity contribution would be required in the next two years to supplement the
companies' internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial
covenants as well as project costs. Early management problems have now been
overcome and both companies have developed effective project implementation
units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded in
the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After a second round of bidding for construction of the pipelines,
borrower decided to reject all bids as being out of line with prices obtainable
from local contractors for similar work, and informed the Bank that it wished
to execute this component with local contractors using Egyptian funds.
Accordingly it requested cancellation of that part of the loan. The Bank has
thus cancelled US$2.85 million. The construction contract for the treatment
plant extensions is currently out to bid. Proposals for data processing
equipment and training have been called for. Meter replacement to improve



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
AWA's operations continues at a satisfactory pace. An application for a
general tariff increase is with the Governor for consideration by the
Alexandria Local Council but approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation, since the transfer of two MOHE institutes
to Credit 868, is proceeding satisfactorily. Virtually all technical assis-
tance has been completed. About 90 percent of all equipment has been procured
and nearly all has been installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed
17 are completed and are operational, 5 will be completed by August and the
other by December 1980. All of the existing institutions being re-equipped
are operational. About 77 percent of Credit amount has been disbursed and
nearly all of the remainder has been committed.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; US$27 Million Credit, US$27 Million Loan and US$12 Million Third
Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Progress on surface drains is satisfactory with completion achieved
in some 230,000 feddans out of total area of 815,000 feddans. For construction
of four new and renovation of two existing pumping stations, the contractors
have started preliminary works following award of contracts in December 1979.
Work has not started on installation of field drainage in 400,000 feddans.
Progress on this activity will depend upon KfW financed PVC pipe-making
factory (planing is currently in progress). This factory is expected to be
commissioned more than one year behind appraisal target of December 1979. It
would accordingly delay completion of field drainage, which is critical
to full completion of the project.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. The Tariff Study financed
under the Loan has been completed. Consultants for the distribution companies
have been engaged. All contracts for equipment, materials and technical
assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
As of February 29, 1980, about $31.4 million had been disbursed and
about $38.3 million committed, representing some 55 percent of the total loan.
Utilization of the loan proceeds has been slow mainly because of delays in
procurement of equipment for public sector firms.



ANNEX II
-  34  -                       Page 7 of 8
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a rehabilitation
and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as demolition and procurement of tugs,
there is some delay. This, however, is not expected to materially affect
the project completion date. The financial situation of the borrower is
sound, canal traffic and revenue being higher than appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Formal presentation of final draft report took place in December
1979 and Government comments have been incorporated into the draft report.
Project in Beheira Governorate identified in the report.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As of
February 29, 1980, $10.8 million had been disbursed and $35.5 million had been
committed. The balance of the Loan is expected to be committed by June
1980.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Some reallocation of Credit proceeds was agreed to in September
1979. Bid documents for a substantial part of the equipment and materials to
be financed under the Credit had been processed by January 1980, and the rest
are expected by May 1980.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Satisfactory progress has been made in procurement of farm machin-
ery. Institutional development is lagging behind appraisal expectations.



ANNEX II
-  35  -                        rPage 8 of 8
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Key staff have been appointed, draft terms of reference for some
advisors and consultants have been agreed and contracts are being finalized.
Preliminary steps on the design of physical works have been started. Completion
of the project is expected to be delayed by at least 18 months.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effective Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. Recruitment of project personnel shows progress,
but is not complete.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effective Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March 31,
1984.
Project implementation is proceeding very well. Of the twenty three
institutions to be constructed, two are completed, eight will be completed by
mid-1981, 10 will be completed in late 1981 and the three MOHE institutes are
expected to be completed on schedule by late 1983. Eighty four percent of all
equipment is under procurement with contracts already signed for 23 percent.
All technical assistance has been contracted and implementation is underway.
Disbursements are well ahead of schedule, a situation which is expected to
continue.
Ln. No. 5-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11.0 Million Loan ot May 25, 1979; Effective Date: October 19,,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment is underway and erec-
tion has started at mine site; laboratory tests of phosphate rock are being
carried out.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 Million of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project implementation has started.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75.0 Million of June 29, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project implementation is in progress. The onshore contract was
signed on March 23, 1980. Construction completion is scheduled for 19 months
after receipt of a 10 percent downpayment due within 30 days after signing.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT, Cr. No. 935-EGT and Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - Shoubrah
El Kheima Thermal Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date:
April 8, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Agreements declared effective on April 8, 1980.



- 36 _
ANNEX III
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the companies
to prepare project:                           11 months (February 1978 to
January 1979)
(b)  Date of first presentation to Bank:           February 1978
(c)  Agency preparing project:                     NATIONAL and RAKTA Paper
Companies with consultants
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:    January 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:           April 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                November 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.        Condition of loan effectiveness:
Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and
the companies (para. 55).
2.        Other conditions:
(i)  The Government would allow the companies to set the prices of their
products and their product mix competitively with due regard for
market conditions without any Government interference (para. 46).
(ii)  NATIONAL and RAKTA would appoint suitable specialists by December 31,
1980 and June 30, 1981, respectively (para. 49) and will provide
the Bank with detailed reports of the Training and Manpower Advisers
by December 31, 1981 (para. 59).
(iii) The Government would provide the funds and other resources required
to complete the studies included under the project (para. 50).



- 37 _
ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv) The Government and the companies will complete the necessary steps
to establish the two successor companies to be operated under the
provisions of Law 43 by February 28, 1980 (para. 53).
(v) The Government will cause the major subscribers and shareholders
to provide for any shortfalls to equity at the establishment of
the successor companies, as well as provide funds required to
complete the project on terms satisfactory to the Bank and funds for
any cash requirements due to operating losses during project imple-
mentation, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para.
56).
(vi) The companies: will maintain after project completion a current
ratio of at least 1.2 and a debt/equity ratio of 60/40; will limit
any prepayment of debt, including any repayment of Government loans,
any dividend or distribution in respect to share capital, if, as a
result, the current ratio would fall below 1.4; will not incur any
long-term debt if future debt service ratios, will fall below 1.5
and their debt/ equity ratio will exceed 60/40; and will not embark
on any other modernization or long-term investment program requiring
investment in excess of $5 million equivalent each in one year with-
out prior consultation with the Bank before the completion of the
project (para. 63).






'                                                                                    i                                                                                     34.
3fr                               ARAB REPUBLtC OF EGYPT
PULP AND PAPER PROJECT                                             32'
32'3
* Principal paper mills -
,  -      Main roads
- |  | Railroads
em o Cities or towns
Canals
Rivers
Dua,yat                                                    Wadis
Meo~~~~##rr~~~*~~~iw   SPrt ai
Ali:oE
<  r SYR I AN / t 539\ j *\- ,r                                         ;Sheikh
SAUDI ~ ~     ~     D
R EPUBLIC  OF               an>,>\.                                                                                               ~~.                           \                                        oA id' tf xh;ho
EGP                                                                         lFiu I                         _----Th,- ,,w han bhe                                                                                onrof p,nnd  th
i 20              40       60       so                                                                                                                                                                   Wati.   ..k, ta-f- nimt = tfa
Fay i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~te natt nih ti tahd
KILOMETERS ----------- -    >~- -\   . -                             S     j XBeniSuef   -         //   , /              ~              ,,   t    i                  .    _            oracceotanTdo,ttt n
i2ba underies  t 5    S     UDA?  t 630w  :,        f/         f4)          Vf.-7SihVO    I    S    /    32-    /    no/.bussir   .  .  .  po6eo@;iod!t atn
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(/d o n&o n atot                                                                                                                                                           ;
MILES                                                                                                                                                              301-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ogttn ntaino ttoo 
[30-                                                         RO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aytrtlt nayotasttn
Ta7on,AaZnjt    atunadtnldan.ay                                                C
boontanin, SUDAN3J. RtDANC



