FILE CoPy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 149a-YAR
APPRAISAL OF AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
May 30, 1973
Education Projects Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accwacy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 US Dollar       =       Yeneni Rial (YR) 4.50
YR 1              =        US$ 0.22
YR 1,000          =        US$ 222
YR 1 million      =        US$ 222,200
MEASURES
2
1 m22 2                   10.764 sq. ft.
1 km              =       0.38 sq. mile
1 hectare         =       2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SU14ARY ANTD CONCLUSIONS  ..*.................................  i - iv
I. INTRODUCTION ..............................................                           1
II. SOCIO ECONOMIC  SETTING  ....................................                         2
Background            ....................................                           2
Economic Developmnent and Manpower  .........................                        3
III. EDUCATION SECTOR  . ..........................                  ...............        4
Present Status and Overall Educational Development Strategy                          4
Primary Education  .................................. . ........                     6
General Secondary Education  ...                ........................ ....        6
Primarv Teacher Training  ..           ................  ............. .             8
Secondary Teacher Training  ................................                         9
Higher Education                 ..........................................          9
Technical and Vocational  Education  .                 .......................      10
Agricultural Education  and Rural Training  .................                       10
Education Finance  ... .................. ....  ...... ...... . ...... .            11
External Aid          .......................       .......................         12
Summarv  ......                     ....         .......................            13
IV. THE PROJECT ....................... o***.*.#*-& ........... .... t*                   3
General       ........................... ........................                  13
Primary Teacher Training Institutes                    .......................      15
Secondary School Teacher Training College  .                  ............... .     15
Secondary Schools  ................   .         .....         ...................   16
Vocational Training Centers    ........... .....................                    17
Agricultural Training Center    ........... *                 ................      17
Three Non-Formal Basic Education Centers  ....                    ..............    18
Advisory Boards .....................,,,..                                         18
Technical Assistance  ....            .......   ............... .   .......         18
Counterpart Training  .................. . . . .......  .............. . . .        20
Cost of the Project .......................................                         21
Financial Plan  ............................................                        23
Recurrent Costs ...........................................                         24
V.  IMPLEMENTATION  ............................................                        24
VI. BENEFITS  .............. ....              ....... .  ................  .....        26
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .....................                         27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Yemen Arab Republic in November/December 1972. The mission consisted of
Messrs. A. Salmon (General Educator), I. Serageldin (Architect), B. Grindrod
(Technical Educator), R. Savas (Agricultural Educator) and L. Vu Cong
(Economist, Unesco).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (COintinued)
APPENDICES
I. The Education and TtAiniPh  Sy-tdi`
II. Manpower gtquireintnts
III. External Aid
IV. Building Systems
Al'NhEXES
1. Comparrative EdifeAtion IndicAtor.k
2. Technical A*9istance to the  {i:list* ot  di*aio  (OEagk foit&
3. Primary and &:neral Sec6nAifi  #dUAt6ft bgV6166p4A
4. Estimated Recturent 9ducatXf>* kkb6iinatfi&  ii      t "dibii
and by Categbty  (1910H1)
5. Education Expenditures, ¢dP and d6voeitftih   #X66it (9t1i jZ)
6. Projected Recurrent  d14c411h  1*pEnititE  ' ¶e W  Edc2i+ii (1971/81)
7. Vocational Training -                       itud nt  iita    utlit by  irade Subjects
8. Technical Assistance to Pi.-jLct  tn*iti if idi
9. Project Costs by Type of E        ttitgi
10. Unit Capital Cost and Ue Factor
11. Contingency Allowance
12. Financial Plan
13. Project Implesientationh Schedtiu
14. Estimated Disburs4ment S6heduTh
CHiARTS
I. Structure of the Edticationi 9stem
II. Educational Pyramid (1971-72)
ITT. Organization oF the Ministiy of EducAtioii
_AP



BASIC DATA
1/
1. General (1971)
Population                               5.8 million
Annual growth rate                       2.2%
Rural population                        5.4 million (93%)
Urban population                         0.4 million (7%)
Modern sector employment                 65,000   1/
G.D.P. per capita                       About $85-
2. Education (1971-72)
2/
Levels of Education             Student Numbers      Enrollments Ratio
Primary                            124,700  (93.4%)           12.0%
Lower Secondary                      6,300   (4.7%)            1.45%
Upper Secondary                      1,800   (1.4%)            0.5%
Higher                                  700   (0.5%)           0.2%
Total                           133,500
3/
Public Recurrent Expenditures on Education
1971
National Financing                      :      US$ 2.0 million
1/
As percentage of G.D.P.                 :          0.4%
As percentage of overall recurrent
expenditures                        :           5.8%
External Financing                      :      US$ 2.8 million
As percentage of education
recurrent costs                                 607/
1/
Latest estimates by the Central Planning Organization, Sana'a. Indicates
order of magnitude only.
2/
As percentage of age group.
3/
No information is available on capital education expenditures provided chiefly
by Arab states and local communities and for which no adequate government
recording has been developed.






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an education project in the Yemen Arab
Republic for which an IDA credit of US$11.0 million is proposed to assist
the government in its efforts to expand and modernize the education system
and to produce trained personnel required by the developing economy.
ii.       After centuries of isolation from the rest of the world and a de-
bilitating civil war from 1962 to 1970, Yemen is extremely underdeveloped and
has been classified by the United Nations as one of the 25 least developed
countries. The education system, established by decree as recently as 1963,
is also one of the world's least developed, both in quantity and quality.
The percentages of relevant age groups enrolled in primary and secondary
schools are among the lowest in the world - 12% and 1%, respectively in
1972. Vocational and agricultural training are non-existent.
iii.      With massive inputs of foreign aid for both capital and current
educational expenditures, the education system has expanded rapidly since
1965, principally at primary school level, but is laboring under the handi-
caps afflicting many underdeveloped countries -- inadequate buildings, almost
non-existent instructional equipment, outmoded curricula and teaching methods,
insufficient educational options, inadequate training for employment, and
insufficient numbers of qualified teachers and administrators.
iv.       But Yemen differs from most underdeveloped countries in the degree
to which trained local personnel do not exist. The expansion of the primary
school system has been possible only by employing as teachers large numbers
of primary school leavers and even primarv school dropouts; only 8% have had
any teacher training. All of the secondary school teachers, with the excep-
tion of the religion teachers, and all of the full-time staff of the recently
established Faculty of Arts, Science, and Education and the Faculty of Law
are expatriates. For at least the next 10 years, Yemen will not have suffi-
cient numbers of trained personnel to sustain the growth of the education
sector -- and probably any other sector -- without substantial numbers of
expatriates. In brief, Yemen is one of the few countries without even the
human "seed corn" at present to maintain the momentum of development.
v.        Yet there are encouraging signs.  The Ministry of Education, itself
hampered by insufficiently educated and experienced staff (only about 20 staff
members have completed secondary school education and only ten officials are
university graduates), is aware of the problems besetting the education system
and is eager to improve the sector. Already, with the help of Unesco specialists,
new curricula have been devised which would provide more practical work in
primary and secondary schools and primary and secondary teacher training in-
stitutions, and would offer more course options at secondary levels.
vi.       In addition to the strengthening of the Ministry of Education, the
most pressing needs of the education system are (i) to upgrade the quality of



- ii -
school leavers at all levels, (ii) to expand the system and to initiate new
types.of training to produce the numbers and kinds of trained personnel re-
quired by the nation's economy and (iii) to train sufficient numbers of
Yemenis to function effectively as teachers and administrators at all levels.
Of these, the over-riding need clearly is for greater numbers of better
trained teachers, without whom the hoped-for improvements in accommodations,
instructional equipment, and curricula will have only marginal effect upon
up-grading the system's quality.
vii.      For these reasons, the proposed project would concentrate on pro-
viding assistance for (i) the expansion and up-grading of primary and sec-
ondary teacher training, (ii) the expansion of secondary school education
and improvement of quality by the provision of much needed instructional
equipment and (iii) the establishment of the country's first agricultural
and vocational training institutions and non-formal basic education.
viii.     Specifically, the project would comprise:
(a) the construction and equipment of:
-    three primary teacher training institutes.for boys,
-    one secondary teacher training college,
-    one upper secondary school,
-    two upper secondary level schools - multilateral or
vocational alternatives,
-    two vocational training centers,
-    one agricultural training center,
-    three non-formal basic education centers,
(b)  the provision.of equipment for the existing institutions below:
_    three primary teacher training institutes for girls,
-    three upper secondary schools,
-    three lower secondary schools,
(c) technical assistance:
-    the principal officers of the project administrative
unit, financed by the proposed credit,
-    a portion of the government's share of the capital
costs of the project :nstitutions and their recurrent
costs during the first four and one half years of
operation, financed by the United Arab Emirates,
-    project institution staffing and counterpart training,
financed by the UNDP and the Federal Republic of Germany,
-    a task force of about 20 Unesco specialists, financed by
the UNDP, to advise the Ministry of Education on (i) school
building design and construction (ii) management of the
Ministry of Education and the education system as a



- iii -
whole and (iii) the improvement and planned development
of the education system to meet in the most economical
manner the nation's projected needs for trained manpower.
ix.       Because of the almost complete absence of qualified Yemenis above
the primary school teacher level, the project would require a massive input
of expatriate teachers and administrators. Under the proposed UNDP project,
Unesco would provide 22 specialists, ILO would provide 7, and FAO 6, for a
combined total of 68 man-years. In addition, the Federal Republic of Gennany
would provide 7 specialists for a total of about 16 man-years, and the neigh-
boring Arab states - principallv Egypt, Iraq and Syria - would provide about
84 teachers annually to the new project institutions until qualified Yemenis
are available to replace them. A counterpart training program would provide
overseas training for selected Yemenis to be followed by a period of intern-
ship in Yemen under the supervision of the expatriate specialists. The re-
cruitment of specialists under the UNDP program may be difficult because of
the difficult living conditions in Yemen, which may force some reduction in
the standards required of these specialists if the desired numbers are to
be provided as scheduled. The project's contribution would be reduced - but
would remain significant - if too many of the UNDP posts were filled with
specialists not of the requisite quality. This is a recommended calculated
risk.
x.        The proposed IDA project and the UNDP project to provide teachers
and the task force are inter-related inasmuch as (i) the teachers would be
essential for the operation of the project institutions and (ii) the IDA
project is designed to expand, broaden, and up-grade the present under-sized
and sub-standard education system to provide a suitable base for further
development in accordance with the task force's recommendations. In addi-
tion, these recommendations are expected to provide the basis for further
IDA assistance in subsequent education projects. For these reasons, the
UNDP teachers and experts would be agreeable to the Association, and a con-
dition of effectiveness of the credit would be agreement by the government,
UNDP, Unesco, and the Association upon the terms of reference and the plan
of operation of the UNDP task force.
xi.       A project implementation unit would be established within the
Ministry of Education to provide overall supervision of the IDA financed
portion of the project and would be financed under the Credit. Contracts
for all civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded in conformity
with the Association's Guidelines for Procurement. For the purpose of com-
paring foreign and local bids, manufacturers in the YAR would be accorded
a margin of preference of up to 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing im-
ports, or the generally applicable existing level of customs duties, which-
ever is the lower. All imported materials and services related to the proj-
ect would, however, be exempted from duties and taxes.
xii.      The proposed project is estimated to cost US$17.0 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$11.5 million (about 68% of the total cost).
The project forms a suitable basis for an IDA credit to the Government of
the Yemen Arab Republic of US$11.0 million, equal to 65% of the total cost



- iv -
of the project, which would meet 65% of the estimated foreign exchange component
and about 64% of the local costs. The financing of technical assistance by
UNDP and the Federal Republic of Germany would meet the remaining 35% of the
estimated foreign exchange component and about 18% of the local costs. The
remaining 18% of local costs would be financedl by the government and the United
Arab Emirates.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A Unesco Project Identification Mission visited the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR) in April-%ay 1971 at the request of the government. Based
on the recommendations of this mission, an IDA reconnaissance mdssion in
January 1972 agreed with the government on the content of an education proj-
ect suitable for consideration for financing. A Unesco mission assisted the
government in June-July 1972 in preparing this project for submission to the
Association. The project was appraised in November-December 1972 by an IDA
mission comprising Mlessrs. A Salmon (general educator), I. Serageldin (archi-
tect), B. Crindrod (technical educator), R. Savas (agricultural educator) and
L. Vu Cong (economist-Unesco).
1.02      During appraisal, the proposed project was modified (a) to strength-
en teacher training and vocational training by adding a primary teacher train-
ing institute and vocational training center, and by changing the concept of
a new secondary teacher training college to concentrate on professional educa-
tion training and practice for secondary school teachers; and (b) to assist
efforts to make education more practical by adding equipment to nine exist-
ing institutions.
1.03      The proposed project, as modified, would provide financing for:
(a)  the expansion and improvement of primary and secondary
teacher training;
(b)  the expansion and improvement of secondary education
including the provision of vocational training;
(c)  the establishment of the country's first agricultural train-
ing institution;
(d)  the establishment of the countrv's first two vocational training
institutions;
(e)  the establishment of the country's first non-formal basic
education centers; and
(f)  technical assistance (i) to implement the overall education
program, including staffing of the Project Unit and project
institutions and the training of counterparts and (ii) to
advise the Ministry of Education on btiilding standards,
management, and the development of the education system.



- 2 -
II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
Background
2.01      The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), covering an area of about 195,000
km2 in the southern tip of the Arabian Peninsula, is one of the poorest and
least developed countries; it has been classified by the United Nations as
one of the 25 least developed countries, It has three main geographical
areas - the semi-desert Tihama coastal plain along the Red Sea, the agri-
culturally productive inland valleys and plateau containing more than three-
quarters of the total population, and the desert beginning on the eastern
slopes of the plateau.
2.02      The population, estimated at 5.8 million in 1971, is increasing at
about 2.2% p.a., and is expected to increase at a faster rate due to improve-
ments in nutrition and health services. Average age is low, with about 44%
under 15 years. Yemenis share the Arabic language and the Islamic religion,
but the social structure remains fundamentally tribal, which is one of the
main factors limiting inter-regional migration.
2.03      After centuries of isolation from the rest of the world and the
difficult years of civil war (1962-1970), aggravated by severe drought be-
tween 1968 and 1970, Yemen is extremely underdeveloped. The government has
taken initial steps to modernize and develop the country, but faces a dif-
ficult task, due principally to financial constraints, the lack of natural
resources and acute shortages of qualified manpower. The illiteracy rate
is estimated at 90%, one of the highest in the world (Annex 1).
2.04      Since the end of the civil war, the government has emphasized or-
ganizing a more modern administration, expanding health and education services,
and increasing agricultural output. Notwithstanding the attempt by the central
government to establish a national administration, the tribal structure still
gives political, administrative and social characteristics to each of the
eight governorates and, in particular, those of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida,
the three major cities in the country.
2.05      The YAR's economy traditionally depends on agriculture, which ac-
counts for 75% to 80% of the GDP and provides a livelihood, at subsistence
level, for about 90% of the population. Except for salt, no significant
natural resources have been discovered. About 26% of the land is cultiva-
ble but, at present, only 11% or two million hectares is under cultivation
because of a lack of reliable water supply, more modern technology and its
associated trained manpower. About 20% of Yemen's food requirements are
inported, farming techniques are traditional, and farmers have little if any
educational background. They are receptive to new ideas, but a government
extension service for disseminating information on modern agricultural tech-
niques does not exist. Agricultural training institutions are non-existent
(Appendix I).



2.06      The modern economic sector is concentrated almost entirely in the
three major cities (para. 2.04). As in agriculture, one of the greatest
obstacles to development is the extremely low qualification of manpower,
although traditional skills in building, and wood and metalwork handicrafts
are highly developed. Modern sector employment is estimated at about 65,000,
of which 15,000 people are government workers. Less than 1% of the govern-
ment workers has had third level education and only 2% has completed secondary
school. The industrial sector (textiles, cement, plastics, food, confectionery,
cigarettes, salt mining, cotton ginning and beverages) is represented at pres-
ent by 8 large enterprises employing an average of 500 workers each, 12 medium
size units with 50 to 100 employees each, and 120 small size units with 5 to
50 employees each. Petroleum exploration is being undertaken, and market
analyses for 65 small industrial units have been completed. In the services
sector, small scale trade predominates, while local craft is represented by
a large number of family-run workshops.
Economic Development and Manpower
2.07      Based on recent trends, GDP is expected to increase annually by 4
to 6% over the next five years. The Central Planning Organization believes
an 8% growth rate is not unreasonable, but this is considered to be optimistic.
A development strategy and investment program to be published in mid-1973 is
expected to emphasize the diversification of agricultural production, par-
ticularly cash crops, and the increased production of food through the use
of more modern technology, especially the more intensive utilization of sur-
face and underground water for irrigation. The Tihama Development Project
approved for financing by the Association in May 1973 will help contribute
to this development. As part of the plan to promote import substitution in-
dustries, the establishment of industrial estates in the three major centers
(para. 2.04) to encourage investment in small scale industrial enterprises is
being considered; an appraisal report of a small industrial estate project is
being prepared for consideration for Association financing. For the expected
expansion of industrial activities in the Hodeida region, the Hodeida port
facilities and equipment will be expanded. Attention will also be given to
road and building construction, public utilities - power facilities in par-
ticular - as well as strengthening public administration. To ensure the
availability of qualified staff to carry out this development activity, ex-
pansion and improvement of the education sector is being accorded first
priority.
2.08      By 1980/81, annual manpower requirements (Appendix II) are expected
to be: (i) 220 professionals and 1,120 sub-professionals in health, agricul-
ture, industry, commerce, and management; (ii) 450 skilled workers in industry
and 1,350 skilled workers in administration and commerce; and (iii) 180 sec-
ondary school teachers and administrators and 1,600 primary teachers. As the
present educational system (Appendix I) is only in its initial stages of
development and will not begin to produce the required types of trained per-
sonnel in the desired quantities for another 6 to 8 years, the nation will
have to rely heavily upon assistance from abroad for most of the trained
personnel required by the development effort.



- 4 -
2.09      At present, the development effort is financed almost entirely
from foreign sources; total government expenditures were more than double
government revenues in 1971, with one-quarter of the overall deficit financed
from domestic resources and three-quarters by external assistance. A poorly
staffed public administration and such heavy dependence on fluctuating for-
eign aid have made even basic fiscal management difficult. Some progress is
being made, however: the first national budget is expected to be produced by
1974; and the strengthening of fiscal administration and recent improvements
in the tax system have made possible an increase in government revenues of
over 40% p.a. since 1967 and more than 50% p.a. over the last two years. In
1971, however, government revenues still represented only 4% of the estimated
GDP.
III. EDUCATION SECTOR
Present Status and Overall Educational Development Strategy (Appendix 1)
3.01      Consistent with the country's extreme overall underdevelopment, the
education system (Chart I) is one of the least developed in the world, both
in quantity and quality. Education, in the modern sense of well-developed,
systematic schooling for both boys and girls in subjects necessary for under-
standing and working in today's world, is just beginning to emerge. The
nation's literacy rate is barely 10%. In 1972, only 12% and 1% of the re-
spective age groups were enrolled in primary and secondary schools, and girls
represented only 10% and 6% of the primary and secondary school enrollments
(Chart II). Moreover, the quality of education, for the few receiving it,
is generally poor and out of date.
3.02      The country's formal education system was established by decree
only in 1963. Until then, practically no secular schools existed in Yemen,
and almost all were Koranic schools, a situation which still prevails in most
rural areas. The system of secular schools has been developed without suf-
ficient funds and trained personnel, and consequently lacks modern teaching
materials and facilities, is restricted and outmoded in terms of curriculum,
methods, and structure and is unable to meet the current more diversified
manpower and social needs of the YAR (para. 2.08).
3.03      Compounding these overall quantitative and qualitative deficiencies
is the lack of (i) a strong educational administration and planning organiza-
tion to lead and direct the system's growth, and (ii) qualified teaching man-
power at every educational level. In the Ministry of Education, for instance,
only about 20 staff members have completed secondary school education and only
ten officials are university graduates; moreover, the services which the
Ministry is able to provide often overlap (Chart III), and inadequate coordi-
nation among the national, regional and local levels of administration increases
the difficulties of an already inefficient management. In terms of teacher
qualifications, about 92% of the primary teaching force is unqualified, and
all secondary school teachers, with the exception of religion teachers, and
all full-time higher education teachers are expatriates.



-5-
3.04      Regardless of the quality of education offered, the demand for edu-
cation is high and is increasing. Many communities have responded to this
demand by constructing new schools, mostly at the primary level. These schools
frequently have been provided by bilateral aid and local community effort with-
out sufficient national or regional coordination, appropriate scheduling, or
standards. Moreover, this enrollment growth continuously outpaces the provision
of both facilities and qualified teachers, and the related problems are being
solved in a local patchwork manner, further adding to the difficult job of
creating a coherent and coordinated educational system.
3.05      The government is acutely aware of these problems and is attempting
to design plans to develop the education system rationally and effectively.
Although the details of the plans have yet to be developed, the government,
with the help of some Unesco experts, has already stated some broad educa-
tional development goals and priorities. These goals are: (a) to improve
central and local educational planning, administration and supervision; (b)
to introduce a more flexible education structure which would include new
practical programs, non-formal training, and literacy schemes, (c) to
develop more modern curricula, teaching methods and materials, and career
guidance, td) to expand the training and upgrading of primary and secondary
educators along these innovative lines, and (e) to develop more modern
school building standards. Highest priority will be given to developing and
improvring primary education. The problems and planned corrective measures
are discussed for each educational level below.
3.06      However, there is not only an extreme shortage of trained talent,
but also an extreme shortage of funds for this task; for both these reasons,
the government intends to rely heavily on multilateral and bilateral aid to
assist in formulating educational plans and in prescribing operational pro-
cedures. The principal source of planning assistance is expected from a
UNDP project which would finance the services of 20 Unesco experts for a
combined total of 50 man-years (Annex 2) to advise the Ministry of Education
on planning and management, curriculum development, teaching methodology and
materials, and school building design and construction. One of the principal
assignments of this task force will be to prepare a comprehensive education
development plan, based upon its study of the manpower requirements of the
country, the financial resources likely to be available, and the most ap-
propriate forms of education for Yemen at various levels up to and including
the need for higher education. Because the primary school system is still
relatively undeveloped, the YAR has the option of either expanding along
formal lines, as many developing countries have done recently, or dividing
its efforts at this level between formal and some non-formal type of learn-
ing which could provide a basic education more inexpensively to youths of
varying ages, perhaps to age eighteen. One of the major functions of the
task force should be to assess the proper balance between enrollments at
primarv level in formal and non-formal types of education, the phased devel-
opment and costs of each, the required components of a non-formal basic educa-
tion system relevant to the Yemen environment and especially its rural popula-
tions, and the means by which such a non-formal system of education might best



- 6 -
be started and subsequently expanded. The task force would also review the
comparative advantages in the Yemen context of proceeding with multilateral
schools at the secondary level or alternatively to broaden the lower second-
ary education base to be followed by more specialized vocational training of
shorter duration. During negotiations it was agreed that the terms of reference
of the Unesco task force would, inter alia, adequatelv focus on the formulation
of educational policies in the field of basic and primary education and the
provision of vocational or pre-vocational training in conjunction with second-
ary schooling, either in multilateral schools or suitable alternatives.
Primary Education
3.07      Primary education consists of six years of schooling and, except
for 83 non-official religious schQols, is conducted in government institutions.
The enrollment in 1971/72 of 124,700 pupils, only 12% of the 6-11 age group,
represented nevertheless a rapid expansion of primary school education: from
1965 to 1970, annual enrollment increases averaged 10% and since the end of
the war in 1970 have averaged 32%. These increases have outpaced the supply
of adequate facilities, teaching materials and qualified teachers. The re-
sult is that, in 1971/72, only about 8% of the primary school teaching force
of 3,150 had received teacher training. The rest were almost exclusively
primary school graduates and, in many cases, even primary and secondary
school dropouts; only 4%, or 127, were women. This forced reliance on un-
qualified teachers has further weakened the quality of an already weak primary
level education. Not surprisingly, dropout rates are high: only 38% of those
entering grade 1 reach grade 4 (the normally accepted literacy level) and only
13% complete the course and graduate from grade 6.
3.08      Because the government is aware that a strong primary school system
is the foundation upon which the future development of the entire educational
system rests, it has given highest priority to developing and improving prim-
ary education. It has already developed, with the assistance of Unesco spe-
cialists, a modern primary school curriculum and it hopes that this, together
with improved teaching methods and materials, better qualified teachers and
such practices as improved internal promotion through the grades, will in-
crease the output and the quality of primary education to acceptable standards.
The degree to which a tentative primary school enrollment target in 1980 of
415,000 (Annex 3), 33% of the relevant age group, will be realized is primarily
dependent upon the recommendations which the UNDP task force (para. 3.06) will
provide, concerning the development of primary education along formal and non-
formal lines, and upon yet uncertain bilateral assistance for the construction
of additional schools.
General Secondary Education
3.09      Secondary education consists of three years of a lower secondary
(grades 7-9) and three years of an upper secondary (grades 10-12) course.
Before 1962 secondary education was, in the modern sense, almost non-existent
and since that time, it has increased rapidly, with deficiencies similar to
those which have accompanied the primarv school growth.  In 1962/63, only 730



- 7 -
students were enrolled in secondary education; by 1972, 7,280 students were
enrolled with an annual output of 1,107 from lower secondary and 279 1/ from
upper secondary schools. This represents an average annual increase of over
30% since 1962. Despite this rapid growth, the age group enrollment (ages 12-17)
in 1972 was still one of the lowest in the world -- a bare 1.0%. Moreover,
within this total, the proportion of females enrolled was negligible: girls
represented only about 1% of all general secondary school enrollments.
3.10      The quality of secondary education suffers from a rigid structure
and an overly academic and limited curriculum (para. 3.02) which attempts to
prepare students only for higher education. For lack of equipment and ade-
quately trained teachers, virtually no practical learning experience is
offered. Curricula and textbooks, adopted from foreign countries, are often
inappropriate to modern educational needs. At lower secondary level, the
curriculum is essentially a continuation of the primary course with most
subjects preparing students neither for employment nor adequately for upper
secondary education. Students in upper secondary schools are permitted to
specialize only in either arts or general sciences, which frequently are
taught without basic equipment. This limited choice forces students into
one narrow program or another without access to the kind of diversified
training needed for better preparation in the emerging YAR economy.
3.11      In an effort to overcome these deficiencies, the government has
mapped out a broad strategy to reform and develop secondary education.
First, the government has set as its target a total enrollment at this level
by 1980/81 of 19,000 (16,300 in lower secondary and 2,700 in upper secondary)
which would provide an annual total output of 4,700 (4,000 from lower and 700
from upper secondary education). This would represent an enrollment of about
2.5% of the relevant age group by that time. Secondly, to broaden the content
of education at this level the government intends to: (a) establish a more
flexible education structure which would include a greater range of subject
options at varying levels for varying durations (Chart I); (b) apply prac-
tical teaching methods and new curricula which have been prepared by Unesco
specialists and which emphasize scientific and pre-vocational subjects; (c)
provide Yemeni textbooks which are expected to be developed by the UNDP task
force (para. 3.06) and to be produced with the assistance of the Saudi Arabian
government; and (d) establish a planning, examination and guidance system with
the help of the task force to regulate enrollment in the various programs and
to assist students in choosing between the possible options. Thirdly, the
government intends to increase and improve the secondary school teacher sup-
ply by expanding training for such teachers and to train them along more
modern educational lines consistent with the above developments. To assist
the government to achieve these quantitative and qualitative aims for sec-
ondary education, the proposed project would provide a new Secondary Teacher
1/   An additional 242 received upper secondary school leaving certificates
after preparation for the certificate examination in primary teacher
training institutes or out of school.



Training College, and provide much needed equipment for existing secondary
schools. In addition, the project would include financing for an expansion
of the upper secondary school system compatible with the recommendations of
the UNDP task force (para. 3.06) which (i) will examine the needs of the
economy for school leavers with various qualifications, particularly as com-
pared with the above secondary school enrollment targets and (ii) will re-
commend appropriate sizes of various tvpes of post-primary education and
the proPer mixture of academic, pre-vocational, and vocational courses at
this level commensurate with the needs of the economy and with Yemen's ability
to defray the associated recurrent costs.
Primary Teacher Training
3.12      The primarv teacher training system in Yemen enrolled only 618
students in 1971/72, distributed among one institute for boys and three in-
stitutes for girls. Primary school teacher training consists of three years
(grades 10-12) for boys and six years for girls (grades 7-12).  As these in-
stitut:es represent virtually the only secondary school level education avail-
able to girls (only 53 girls were enrolled in 1972 in general secondary
schools), the lower three years of the girls' institutes may exist to provide
secondary level education to girls in a manner acceptable to the present
society. The UNDP task force (para. 3.06) will examine the duration of the
girls' primary teacher training programs and the optimum level of enrollments
for girls in the Yemen secondary school system.
3.13      The capacity of the existing primary teacher training system is
insufficient to train the needed number of qualified primary school teachers.
The output of the existing institutions was only 120 in 1972, compared with a
backlog of about 2,900 untrained primary school teachers. Emergency measures
have been taken to improve the qualifications of the teaching force: 500
primary school leavers have been given 3-6 months accelerated teacher train-
ing courses and secondary school graduates have been given rudimentary train-
ing before entering one year of national service as primary school teachers.
But these ston-gap measures are inadequate substitutes for the required
teacher training. When the requirements for additional trained teachers re-
sulting from the yet undetermined expansion of primary schooling are added
to the backlog of untrained teachers who must be upgraded or replaced, it
is clear that unless new institutions are established to supplement this
meager output from the existing primary school teacher training system,
the vast majority of the primary teaching force in the future will, as at
present, be unqualified.
3.14      The government intends to upgrade and expand primary teacher train-
ing as follows: (a) about 1,700 underqualified teachers who are considered
capable of improvement will be given a one year upgrading course in the pro-
posed project primary teacher training institutes; (b) the number of primary
teacher training institutes will be progressively increased over the various



- 9 -
governorates of the country; (c) as the number of secondary school leavers
increase, the recruitment of primary school leavers will be phased out; (d)
Yemeni teacher trainers and irnspectors will be trained in the proposed Sec-
ondary Teacher Training College to replace expatriates and to provide follow-
up support to newly trained primary school teachers; and (e) new curricula
already prepared by Unesco specialists will be utilized which will emphasize
professional practice and introduce practical courses in agriculutre, pre-
vocational workshop and community development training for male trainees,
home economics and child care for female trainees, and literacy methods for
both.
3.15      The project would assist the government in achieving these objec-
tives by financing the construction and equipping of three new boys' primary
teacher training institutes, including the replacement of the existing boys'
primary teacher training institute, and the equipping of the three existing
girls' institutes.
Secondary Teacher Training
3.16      The Faculty of Arts, Science and Education, described below, does
not have sufficient space for the required expansion of enrollment. In order
to replace the present expatriate teachers with Yemenis by 1984/85 and also
meet the expected enrollment growth at the secondary level by that time, an
estimated 150 secondary school teachers would have to graduate annually from
1978, the year in which the proposed Secondary School Teacher Training College
would produce its first graduates. This, in addition to the 30 primary school
teacher trainers and inspectors needed annually, would require a total enroll-
ment of about 800 in education, which is clearly beyond the present capacity
of the existing Faculty of Arts, Science, and Education.
3.17      To provide the required facilities for professional training in
education, the government would like to create a Secondary School Teacher
Training College which would offer education courses and practice teaching
to prepare trainees to become secondary school teachers, primary teacher
trainers, and inspectors. While bilateral aid would assist in improving
the preparation of trainees in subject matter areas within the Faculty of
Arts, Science and Education during their first 3 years of training, the pro-
posed project would provide a separate college which would offer to about
180 trainees during their fourth year the required professional training and
practice, including training in adult education methods and education adminis-
tration and management.
Higher Education
3.18      The Institute of Public Administration in Sana'a offers courses
varying from two to six months in secretarial studies, tax collection, per-
sonnel administration, statistics, finance, and public administration. En-
rollment in 1972 was 120, most of whom were secondary school leavers. Because
of shortness of the programs and selection processes, few drop-out. Nearly
all who have completed the courses have become government middle level civil
servants. The Institute is under the administration of the Public Service
Commission.



- 10 -
3.19      University education was initiated in Yemen in 1970 with the opening
of a Faculty of Arts, Science and Education and a Faculty of Law; both offer
four year degree programs. These institutions enrolled a total of only 260
students in 1972; the remaining 440 Yemeni students who are enrolled in higher
education are studying abroad. Both Faculties are financed by the Government
of Kuwait, with full-time teacher staffs of Egyptians, and both share the
facilities of the Boys' Primary School Teacher Training Institute at Sana'a.
3.20      As the ability of the Secondary Teacher Training College to operate
at full capacity will be dependent upon an adequate output from the third year
of the Faculty of Arts, Science and Education, the government has provided \
an assurance that, by September 1976, one year prior to the scheduled opening
of the Secondary Teacher Training College, approximately 200 places will be
reserved in each of the first three years of the existing Faculty of Arts,
Science and-Education for trainees who would transfer after their third year
to the new College.
Technical and Vocational Education
3.21      Aside from a post-primary school, assisted by the People's Republic
of China, which trains middle level technicians in a five-year course, there
is no modern technical training in the YAR. This school, which started op-
erating in 1970/71, enrolled 180 students in 1971/72. About 90 technicians
will graduate annually by 1975. At lower levels, local crafts are learned
in traditional family workshops, but skilled worker training in the modern
sense does not exist. The capacity of this system is inadequate to meet the
exDected need for about 450 skilled industrial workers annually by 1980/81-
a need resulting from the expected economic development of the YAR by that
time (para. 2.07).
3.22      The government plans to improve such training by diversifying tech-
nical subject options, offering them at various levels of the education system
(Chart I), and placing emphasis on newly developed curricula, modern methods,
and practical work. Moreover, along with this development of the formal system,
and in the same facilities, the government plans to develop non-formal upgrading
programs and courses for illiterate adults and school dropouts. The proposed
project would assist in these efforts by providing two pilot vocational train-
ing centers in Sana'a and Hodeida. In addition to demonstrating the new curri-
cula, the combined output of these centers would meet about 60% of the anti-
cipated needs for skilled workers by 1981.
Agricultural Education and Rural Training
3.23      Although Yemen is basically an agricultural country (para. 2.05), it
has no agricultural training institution. The only supply of trained agricul-
tural personnel comes frem students returning at irregular intervals from
studies abroad. As for non-formal rural training, there are only limited
programs offered to farmers by the Federal Republic of Germany and by FAO
(-he Highlands Project and the Farm Mechanization Training and Extension
Project).



- 11 -
3.24      To implement its agricultural development strategy (para. 2.07),
the government intends to stress non-formal rural training in order to adapt
the agricultural skills of the Yemeni population to the requirements of modern
production techniques. The objective is to make possible not only for the
country to reach food self-sufficiency and increase agricultural exports,
but also to increase the income of the 90% of the Yemeni population engaged
in farming. In addition, the government intends to utilize rural training
to develop its literacy campaign. To begin to accomplish the aims for rural
training development, an agricultural extension service, now completely non-
existent, must be created and it is estimated that for this new service ap-
proximately 1,200 extension agents and 300 animal health assistants would
be required. The proposed project would assist by providing a pilot train-
ing center to upgrade farmers and to train and upgrade government extension
agents commensurate with the projected absorptive capacity of the Ministry
of Agriculture. At higher levels, agricultural specialists will continue
to be trained abroad. A related IDA project, the Tihama Development Project,
would provide funds for 3-6 month courses abroad to upgrade selected Yemeni
professionals in the fields of irrigation, engineering, agricultural research,
extension and credit.
Education Finance (Annexes 4 to 6)
3.25      No information is available on capital education expenditures be-
cause financing has been provided chiefly by several Arab states and local
communities for which no adequate government recording system has been de-
veloped. Capital outlays for education, however, must have been sizeable
during the period 1969-72 when 455 primary schools (of the 1,1 :5 existing
ones), 26 lower secondary schools (of the present 51), the 4 1/ upper sec-
ondary schools, the technical secondary school, and the 4 teacher training
institutes were built.
3.26      Except for 83 religious primary schools initiated by local commun-
ities for which the central government is not responsible, public recurrent
education expenditures are completely financed by central government revenues.
The participation of local communities consists of providing the teacher with
stipends and fringe benefits in kind, and in a number of villages has included
the provision of free labor to construct schools. Government recurrent ex-
penditures for education increased by 600% between 1967 and 1971. This in-
crease would not have been possible without external assistance. In 1970/71,
the total recurrent expenditure for education amounted to YR 24 million
(US$4.8 million), representing 14% of the total recurrent government expend-
itures and 1% of the GDP.
1/   One of these schools was not designed as an upper secondary school and
is expected to be reconverted into a primary school when its enrollment
of 90 can be absorbed by a new secondary school to be built in Taiz.



- 12 -
3.27      The educational strategy described in para. 3.05 requires that
teachers' salaries - which are about 50% below those generally offered by
the private sector at equivalent education levels - should be increased as
teachers' qualifications improve andl to provide the necessary incentive to
make teaching careers more attractivre. This increased cost would be offset
in part by economies resulting from,improvements effected by the Task Force
(para. 3.06) in school management, educational planning and school distribu-
tion which would result in more economical pupil/teacher ratios (Annex 3),
particularly at primary school level, and the shifting of non-teaching ex-
penditures completely to families and local communities; this is, in fact,
the present trend. These non-teaching expenditures (food and basic clothing
for about 80% of primary school enrollment) represented 27% of total recur-
rent education expenditures in 1971. The total recurrent education expendi-
tures in 1980 are difficult to estimate with any degree of precision because
of uncertainties concerning the actual enrollment increases by that date and
the magnitude of economies which will be realized, but have been estimated
to be about YR 115 million (US$23 million), which would be 17 to 23% of
expected government expenditures. However, as the recommendations of the
UNDP task force are expected to have a major effect upon the degree and
direction of educational expansion, these estimates must be regarded as
extremely tentative and probably high. This level of recurrent education
expenditures would require reorientation of present government expenditures,
principally a major shift from defense to education. Until such a shift
occurs, significant external financial assistance undoubtedly will continue
to be required.
External Aid (Appendix III)
3.28      External aid has financed both capital and recurrent educational
expenditures and technical assistance. All the existing upper secondary
schools, teacher training institutes and about 20% and 50% of the primary
and lower secondary schools, respectively, built between 1969 and 1972
(para. 3.25) have been financed completely by external aid. In addition, ex-
ternal aid in 1970/71 financed 60% of total recurrent education expenditures;
of this amount, about 25% was allocated for expatriate teachers salaries and
75% for local teachers' salaries and other recurrent expenditures. In 1971/
72, the expatriate teachers numbered 47 in primary education, 406 in second-
ary schools (87% of total) and 17 in higher education (100% of total).
3.29      The principal sources of educational financial assistance are Abu
Dhabi, Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Additional aid is received from
the Federal Republic of Germany, the People's Republic of China, the USSR and
multilateral agencies. At present, technical assistance provided by bilateral
agencies does not require local financial contributions, but this may change
with increasing volume and increasing ability of the government to provide
some local financing. The total 1980 recurrent education costs (para. 3.27)
have been estimated on the premise that all teachers salaries would be paid
up to the local salary scale by the government. On this basis, the country
will be able to finance, if necessary, its contribution to the expanding
foreign assistance programs, which are likely to continue to increase.



- 13 -
Summary
3.30      In summary, the education system of Yemen, barely ten years in
existence and plagued by severe shortages of funds, buildings, equipment
and teachers, has not been able to develop commensurate with the needs of
the economy. With only 12% and 1% of the relevant age groups enrolled in
primary and secondary schools, respectively, the education system has been
unable to produce the required personnel with even a basic education. The
secondary school system has been unable to provide sufficient numbers of
secondary school leavers (i) to satisfy the needs of the government, which
has been forced to compete unsuccessfully with the private sector for their
services, and (ii) to provide adequate candidates for higher education.
3.31      The rapid expansion of the system during the past nine years has
been possible only with very sizeable foreign assistance, which has provided
new buildings, some equipment, and expatriate teachers. Until recently, how-
ever, insufficient attention has been given by the government and donors to
an overall strategy for educational development and to the need for improved
curricula, equipment, and teaching methods. The task force expected to be
provided under a UNDP program will assist the government in this effort.
These needs are not uncommon among developing countries, but Yemen is unique
in that it does not have at present even the human "seed corn" to develop and
maintain an improved system, and must rely, therefore, upon continued sizeable
numbers of expatriates.
3.32      The project would assist the government in alleviating the educa-
tion system's most critical needs by concentrating upon (i) the expansion
and upgrading of primary and secondary teacher training, (ii) the expansion
of secondary school education and the introduction of pre-vocational courses
at this level, and (iii) the establishment of the country's first agricultural
and vocational institutions and non-formal basic education. It is expected
that the project schools would constitute model institutions on which the
subsequent development of the system would be patterned.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The proposed project would help to finance the construction and
equipment of 13 new institutions and equipment for nine existing ones as
shown below. Technical assistance is an important part of the total proj-
ect and would be financed, with the exception of the project unit staff,
entirely by multilateral and bilateral aid agencies. The project would assist
the government to initiate its broad plans for educational improvement by
(a) expanding and improving primary and secondary teacher training, (b) in-
troducing skilled worker vocational training and upgrading, and (c) introducing



- 14 -
agricultural education, rural training and non-formal basic education. The
institutions included within the project are as follows:
Additional Accommodations
Student Places       Student         Staff
Type of Institution      Grade   Additional  Total    Boarding   Housing Units
Three Primary Teacher
Training Institutes
'r Boys (new)           10-11        960       960       960
Three Primary Teacher
Training Institutes for
Girls (equipment only)   7-12          -      1,320         -               -
One Secondary Teacher
Training College (new)  13-16         180       180        100              9
One Upper Secondary
School (new)             10-12        540       540        180              -
Two Upper Secondary
Level Schools - Multi'-
teral or Alternative
Vocational Facilities
(new) -                  10-12        900 /1   900        300 /1
Three Upper Secondary
Schools (equipment
only)                    10-12         -      1,300         -
Three Lower Secondary
Schools (equipment only) 7-9           -      1,500        -
Two Vocational Train-    7-8 &
ing Centers (new)        Ungraded    576        576        -                _
One Agricultural Train-  7&10
ining Center (new)       10-12 &      332 /2   332         320             16
Ungraded
Three Non-Formal Basic
Education Centers (new) Ungraded    600 /1   600 /1 
TOTAL                          4,088    8,208      1,860             25
/1   Approximations, pending completion of task force study of non-formal
education (para. 3.06) and secondary education (para. 3.11)
t    270 extension agent trainees, 12 animal health assistants, 30 young
farmers and a rotating group of 20 adult farmers.



- 1s -
Primary Teacher Training Institutes at Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz
4.02      Three New Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Boys would pro-
vide annually 340 new teachers trained in a two-year pre-service course at
upper secondary level and 240 upgraded teachers through a one-year in-service
course (para. 3.14). The training would be designed to equip teachers, in
addition, to become village leaders and would include courses in community
development, literacy methods, rural technology and cooperative management.
The three institutes would also be local community resource centers. In
view of the expansion of primary education and the increasing size of the
primary school teacher training system, the government has provided an as-
surance that a separate Directorate for Primary Education to administer this
system would be established within the Ministry of Education as early as fea-
sible, and at least one year prior to the scheduled opening of the project
primary teacher training institutes. In addition, in order to increase the
attractiveness of the profession, and, at the same time, to ensure that grad-
uates will remain teachers for at least five years upon graduation, the gov-
ernment has provided an assurance that, as early as feasible and upon op-
eration of the project's new primary teacher training institutions at the
latest, teacher trainees would be granted a civil service status with full
salary upon admission, including a five-year teaching assignment upon grad-
uation.
4.03      The three existing Primary Teacher Training Institutes for Girls
would be provided with scientific and home economics equipment, now virtually
non-existent. This would enable these schools to improve the quality of
their training programs, and also to expand their community development
and literacy activities (para. 3.14). The Sana'a institute for girls would
serve as one of the practice schools for the primary teacher trainer and
inspector section of the Secondary School Teacher Training College.
Secondary School Teacher Training College, Sana'a
4.04      The proposed college would provide professional training and prac-
tice (para. 3.17) in a one-year course to students who complete a three-year
subject matter course in the Faculty of Arts, Science and Education. It would
train 120 lower secondary and 30 upper secondary teachers, 24 primary teacher
trainers and 6 primary inspectors annually. This output would be sufficient
to replace the expatriate staff and ensure self-sufficiency in the staff
categories concerned by 1984-85. The college would be located on the same
campus as its new demonstration and practice schools, the Sana'a Primary
Teacher Training Institute for Boys above and the Sana'a Secondary School
described hereafter. The use of common facilities would reduce the operating
costs of the educational compound. As most practical courses would be given
by the practice teachers included in the staff of the demonstration schools,
only 9 instructors would be required. To ensure that students who receive
government stipends while enrolled as teacher trainees will remain in the
teaching profession for at least five years after graduation, the government
has provided an assurance that, beginning in September, 1974, students, upon
admission to the Faculty of Arts, Science and Education as teacher trainees,
would be required to sign a contract to teach in a government school for
five years upon graduation.



- 16 -
Secondary Schools
4.05      A new upper secondary school would be constructed as part of the
project's educational complex in Sana'a described in para. 4.04. The teach-
ing staff and trainees at the Secondary School Teacher Training College would
use the facilities and the students at this school for demonstration and
---ractice teaching, essential elements of teacher training. In addition, the
close proximity of the schools would enable the laboratories and workshops
of the secondary school to be utilized by classes from the Secondary School
Teacher Training College, thereby permitting economies in the design and
construction of the College. The secondary school would provide 540 student
places, with an expected output of about 150 graduates per year, and would
I,tt designed sufficiently flexible to permit incorporation of additional
practical course instruction if the UNDP task force should so recommend.
4.06      The government has requested financing for 3 multilateral upper
secondary schools, including the new secondary school in Sana'a described
above.  These schools would provide pre-vocational courses in addition to
the academic subjects in upper secondary education and thus enhance the job
mobility of the graduates. However, such a system is more expensive both in
capital and recurrent costs, and provides a lesser vocation skill level than
a concentrated period of vocational training following lower secondary educa-
tion. For these reasons and because the requested multilateral schools would
introduce a new system into Yemen, the role of such schools would be subject
to further review by tie task force (para. 3.06) prior to implementation.
Should the task force recommend and the government agree to pursue alterna-
tive forms of vocational training in conjunction with secondarv education,
the funds provided by the project for financing 3 multilateral secondary
schools on a Pilot basis would be used instead for this latter purpose, with
the exception of the Sana'a secondary school (para. 4.05). The government
has provided an assurance that within 9 months of the commencement of the
task force study, it would, on the basis of the recommendations of the task
force, advise IPA of the type of vocational training in conjunction with
secondary education it plans to pursue. A condition of disbursement for this
item would be the Association's concurrence with those plans. Meanwhile,
this aspect of the project has been appraised on the basis of the provision
of three multilateral upper secondary schools.
4.07      The proposed project would also provide equipment to three lower
secondarv schools and three upper secondary schools. The three lower sec-
ondary schools, which would produce 400 school leavers annually, would be
provided with scientific, commercial and workshop equipment required to in-
troduce a comprehensive-type curriculum which would better prepare students
either for jobs or for further studies than the current academic curriculum
(para. 3.10). The three general upper secondary schools, which would produce
300 school leavers annually, would have their science laboratories adequately
equipped in order to increase practical laboratory instruction (para. 3.10).
4.08      The equipment for these schools and the three girls' primary teacher
training institutes (para. 4.03) should be procured on an emergency basis, as



- 17 -
seven schools are already operating and the other two will open in the fall
of 1973. Therefore, a consultant, acceptable to the Association and on terms
and conditions agreeable to the Association, should be sent to the YAR as soon
as possible after signing the Credit Agreement for about 3 months to prepare
the equipment lists. The related costs would be included within the project
cost.
Vocational Training Centers at Sana'a and Hodeida
4.09      The two proposed centers, one in the capital, Sana'a, and the other
in Yemen's largest Red Sea port, Hodeida, would be the first vocational train-
ing centers in the country, and would train skilled workers in the engineering,
automotive, electrical, sanitation, woodworking and building construction
trades (Annex 7). Both centers would offer twqo-year full-time courses to
576 primary school leavers per annum, with late afternoon non-formal upgrad-
ing classes for a similar number of adult workers. About 270 new skilled
workers and 570 upgraded workers - at various levels of vocational profi-
ciency - would graduate each year. Training would be sufficiently broad in
each subject area to ensure maximum flexibility between crafts and the widest
range of employment possibilities on completion of a course. 'Eighty percent
of the instruction would be practical. While the use of mode'rn tools and
techniques would be introduced, traditional skills would also be encouraged.
Community development and craft demonstrations would be arranged for 60 to
80 adults during the evening. For the recruitment of students, priority
would be given to primary school graduates with prior experience in their
chosen training areas. In view of the highly specialized character of this
type of education, the government has provided an assurance that a separate
Directorate for Technical Education and Vocational Training would be created
within the Ministry of Education to administer these centers as early as pos-
sible, and at least one year prior to the scheduled opening of the centers.
Agricultural'Training Center at Ibb
4.10      This center would be the first agricultural training institution
in the country and, as no similar institution is being contemplated, probably
would remain the only such institution until the end of the decade. It would
offer (a) a three-year upper secondary agricultural extension service course;
(b) a one-year course (grade 10) for training animal health assistants (12
per year); (c) a one-year post-primary course (grade 7) to train prospective
young farmers on a pilot basis (30 per year); (d) experimental short courses
of 1 to 2 weeks' duration for adult farmers (about 200 farmers per year); and
(e) in-service training program of 2 to 3 weeks' duration for officials of
the Ministry of Agriculture. Candidates would be recruited by priority from
the inland plateau where the center is to be located, but about 20% of the
student places would be reserved for students from the coastal plain (Map).
The center would be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education
acting in close cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. As the justifica
tion for the three year agricultural technician course is a function of the
number of extension service posts which would be established, the government
has been requested to present to the Association for comment its plans for



- 18 -
expanding the agricultural extension service. The Association's concurrence
with these plans would be a condition of disbursement for this item, and the
accommodations to be provided within this institution would be based upon
these plans.
Three Non-Formal Basic Education Centers
4.11      This project item would comprise the construction and equipment of
three non-formal basic education centers on a pilot basis. It would be the
first step in a program to relieve social pressure for the more expensive
formal education and to provide a basic education to youths of varying ages.
Because of the extremely limited financial resources of the country and
the relatively limited potential for development of the modern sector, the
development of a non-formal education system would appear to have merit. As
these would be the first centers of their type in the YAR, sufficient know-
ledge of the required components -- teaching areas, equipment, numbers and
types of teachers, and appropriate curricula -- is not yet available to
permit precise cost estimates or to begin the construction of these centers
immediately. To avoid further delay in initiating this type of education,
the funding for these centers is included within this project. The centers
will be constructed upon the recommendations of the UNDP task force which
will examine not only the degree to which the YAR should develop non-formal
education but also the necessary inputs to make such a system effective.
These three project centers are expected to be the proving ground to demonstrate
the merits of such a system and probably will constitute the forerunners of
an expanded system based upon the experience to be gained in the centers.
The government has been requested to provide the Association, as soon as
possible upon completion of the task force study of the basic education
centers' requirements, a detailed plan for the initiation of non-formal
education. A condition of disbursement for this item would be the Associa-
tion's concurrence with that plan.
Advisory Boards
4.12      Advisory boards would be established for each of the project
vocational training centers and the agricultural training center to promote
close collaboration between all interested groups, to provide over-all
direction, and to formulate policy. To elicit the views of major prospective
employers in the public and private sectors concerning the relevance of the
institutions to their manpower requirements, representation on these boards
should be broad. During negotiations, the government provided an assurance
that such advisory boards would be established with regulations and composi-
tion satisfactory to the Association by March, 1977, approximately six months
prior to the scheduled opening of the first project institutions.
Technical Assistance
(a) Project Institution Staffing and Equipment (Annex 8)
4.13      Because of the almost complete absence of qualified Yemenis above
the primary school teacher level, the project would require a massive input
of exnatriate teachers and administrators.  Under a proposed UNDP project,



- 19 -
Unesco would provide about 22 specialists for the teacher training institutions
and the multilateral secondary schools; ILO would provide 7 for the voca-
tional training center at Hodeida; and FAO would provide 6 for the agricul-
tural training center. In addition, the Federal Republic of Germany would
provide 7 specialists for the vocational training center at Sana'a. The
remaining required expatriate personnel would comprise chiefly teachers of
secondary school academic subjects, who are provided at present by neighbor-
ing Arab states - principally, Egypt, Iraq, and Syria. The Minister of Edu-
cation has stated that these countries have given written agreements to pro-
vide the numbers of expatriate teachers at secondary school and higher levels
required by the present and expanded education system until qualified Yemenis
will be available to replace them. The project institutions would require
about 84 expatriate teachers under this program.
4.14      The neighboring Arab states have had no difficulty in recruiting
the 406 secondary school teachers employed at present in Yemen, and do not
anticipate difficulties in recruiting the required numbers for the project
schools. The Federal Republic of Germany, likewise, probably would not have
much difficulty in recruiting qualified vocational training experts because
of the limited number required, 7. But the recruitment of specialists under
the UNDP program may prove to be difficult because of the magnitude of the
program and the difficult living conditions in Yemen. This may result in
some reduction in the standards required of the specialists if the desired
numbers are to be provided as scheduled. The project's contribution would
be reduced -- but would remain significant -- if too many of the UNDP posts
were filled with specialists not of the requisite quality. This is a re-
commended calculated risk.
4.15      The Federal Republic of Germany has recently agreed to provide
DM 1.125 million (US$0.41 million) for experts' services and equipment for
the Sana'a vocational training center, with a second allocation of an unspe-
cified amount to be granted later, subject to Parliamentary approval. As
the experts' services are estimated to cost about US$0.58 million and because
of the uncertainty of the second allocation, an amount of US$0.23 million
has been retained within the proposed Credit for equipment for the Sana'a
vocational training center. If the second allocation by the Federal Republic
of Germany is large enough to cover all equipment costs in addition to all
expert services' costs, this amount would be transferred to the unallocated
category of the Credit for possible subsequent use in another part of the
project.
(b)  UNDP Task Force
4.16      Frequent reference has already been made to the UNDP task force of
specialists who will study how the education system can be developed at the
least cost to meet best the economy's needs for trained personnel. The size
and general objectives of this task force, described in more detail in para.
3.06 and Annex 2, were agreed with representatives of the UNDP, Unesco and
the government during negotiations. Approval of the portion of the proposal
($1.6 million for fellowships and the task force) which falls within this IPF
period (the next two years) is expected in the fall of 1973. Continued UNDP



- 20 -
support for the balance of the project ($2.8 million) which would occur within
the next IPF period is considered to be assured because of the UNDP commitment
in initiating the project. Experts will be recnrited as early as possible,
and recommendations in some priority areas, such as non-formal and secondary
education, should be available within 6 to 9 months thereafter. The final
findings and recommendations of the task force should be available about 15
;o 18 months later.
4.17      Because of the vital importance of the UNDP project in providing
(a) teachers and counterpart training for the project institutions and (b)
the task force whose recommendations will affect the form and rate of devel-
opmnent of the education system, the teachers and the task force specialists
so be provided under the UNDP project would be acceptable to the Associa-
tion. Moreover, agreement by the government, UNDP, Unesco, and the Associa-
tion on the terms of reference and plan of operation of the task force would
be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
Counterpart Training (Annexes 2 and 8)
4.18      To obtain the trained local staff capable of replacing satisfac-
torily the specialists described in para. 4.13, a phased counterpart train-
ing program has been devised to provide overseas training in selected subjects
to be followed by a period of internship in Yemen under the supervision of
the expatriate specialists. The program would include fellowships for over-
seas training for 40 t>aiversity graduates and 33 upper secondary school
leavers, who would be recruited over a four year period. This program, sup-
plemented by the anticipated output of trained teachers from the project's
Secondary School Teacher Training College and by other Yemenis returning
from overseas studies, would make possible the replacement of all expatriate
teachers by 1985. In view of the size and importance of this counterpart
program, the government has provided assurances that (a) qualified counter-
parts to experts would be provided as scheduled in Annexes 2 and 8 and that
their national salaries, when applicable, would be paid during their studies
abroad; and (b) qualified technicians graduating from the Sana'a Technical
School or similar institutions of comparable standard would be assigned by
priority as instructors and counterparts to experts in the project Vocational
Training Centers (para. 4.09).



_ 21 -
Cost of the Project
4.19       The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the various
project items are summarized below:
YR (million)            US$ (million)          , of
Local   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Total
One Secondary School Teacher
Training College            0.97     1.03    2.00    0.21      0.23     0.44     4.88
Three Primary Teacher Train-
ing ia:stitutes for Boys    3.60     5.21    8.81    0.80      1.16     1.06    21.5
Three Secondary Schools       3.28     5.52    8.80    0.73      1.23     1.96    21.5
One Agricultural Training
Center                      2.10     2.61    4.71    0.47      o.58     1.05    11.6
Two Vocational Training
Centers                     2.08     4.75    6.83    0.47      1.05     1.52    16.7
Three Lower Secondary
Schools                     o.o4     0.74    0.78    0.01      0.16     0.17     1,>
Three Upper Secondary
Schools                     0.02     0.46    o.48    0.00      0.10     0.10     1.2
Three Primary Teacher Train-
ing Institutes for Girls    0.04     0.74    0.78    0.01      o.16     O.1'7    1.9
Three Non-Formal Basic
Education Centers           1.29     1.59    2.88    0.29      0.35     o.64     7.0
Professional Fees             0.41     1.62    2.03    0.09      0.36    0?.45     h. 9
Project Administration        0.58     2.32    2.90    0.13  0-.51 -.   0.         7.0
Sub-Total                14.41    26.59   41.00    3.21      5.89     9.]0   100.C
Contingencies:
(a)  Physical Increase        1.88     2.51    h.39    0.42      0.56     0.98    10.7
(b)  Price Increase           4.03     4.62    8.65    0.89      1.03     1.92    21.1
Sub-Total                 5.91     7.13   13.04    1.31      1.59     2.90    31.8
IDA-Financed Project Cost    20.32    33.72   54.o4    4.52      7.48    12.00   1l.3
Technical Assistance:
(a)  Project Staffing         2.93    11.66   14.59    o.65      2.60     3.25
(b)  Task Force               1.53     6.12    7.65    0.34      1.36     1.70
Sub-Total                 4.46    17.78   22.2h    0.99      3.96     4.95
Total Project Cost           24.78    51.50   76.28    5.51    11.44    16.95
% Foreign exchange                                          67.6%



- 22 -
4.20      The distribution of IDA-financed project costs by category of ex-
penditure would be as follows: academic and communal facilities and site devel-
opment would account for 37% of the project cost, boarding and staff housing
18%, equipment and furniture 34%, professional services 5%, and project adminis-
tration 6% (Annex 9). Accomodations would have an economical use factor rang-
ing from 62% to 86% according to the type of facilities (Annex 10).
4.21      The project cost would include a contingency allowance for unfore-
seenphysical additions equal to 15% of the estimated cost of civil works and
7.5%"' for furniture and equipment (Annex 11). Price increase estimates are
based on average annual increases during the last four years, modified down-
wards slightly to reflect the government's increasing control over inflation-
ary pressures. The price increase contingency includes provision for annual
price increases of 6% for furniture, 7% for site development, professional
services, and equipment, and 10% for construction. Total contingencies would
represent 32% of the IDA financed project costs without contingencies and
24% of these costs including contingencies.
4.22      The foreign exchange component of about $11.5 million has been cal-
culated as follows: (i) building construction, 45%, (ii) site development,
30%; (iii) furniture, 85%; (iv) equipment, 95%; (v) professional services,
8O,; (vi) project administration, 80%; and technical assistance, 80%. The
foreign exchange costs represent about 68% of the total project cost (US$17.0
million).
4.23      The cost estimates for the project institutions are derived from
a study of recent school building costs in the YAR and are based upon inform-
ation obtained from public and private enterprises. Construction costs were
computed for each geographic area separately, reflecting local building methods
and prices and instructional standards. The estimated average school con-
struction cost is equivalent to US$103 per m2 of gross area, acceptable by
international standards.
Financial Plan (Annex 12)
4.24      The proposed credit of US$11.0 million, equal to 65% of the total
cost of the project would finance 65% of the foreign exchange component and
64% of the local costs. The technical assistance to be provided by the UNTP
and the Federal Republic of Germany would represent the remaining 35% of the
estimated foreign exchange component and about 18% of the local costs. The
balance would be financed by the government and the United Arab Emirates.
The proposed financial plan, which is acceptable to both the government and
the Association, is summarized below:



- 23 -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC - EDUCATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL PLAN
(US$ Millions )
Government and
United Arab Emirates    IDA              UNDP         FRFG            Total
Amn            Amount    %    Amount   %   Amount   %       Amount      %
1. Civil Works    0.76  15.1%   4.26   84.9%    -         -      -      -      5.02      100%
2. Professional
Services          -     -     0.45   100%      -       -     -       -      0.45      100%
3. Fun'iture         -     -      0.71   100%      -      -      -      -      0.71      100%
4. Equipment         -     -      2.28   100%      -      _      _      _       2.28     100%
5. Technical                          1/
Assistance       -   -         o.64L  11.5   4.37  758.1%   .8   10.%   5.59          100,.o
Baseline Cost  0.76   5.4%   8.34   ',9.4%   4.37  31.1%  0.58    4.1%  14.05         100%
6. Contingencies  0.24   3.3%   2.66   91.7%    -         -             -      2.90      100%
Total         100   5.9%  11X00   6L.9%  lh,37  25.5%  0.58    3.4%  16.95           100%
Project Administration



- 24 -
Recurrent Costs
4.25      The annual recurrent cost of the project institutions at full
capacity would be about YR 7.0 million (US$1.6 million). This would in-
clude the financing of all local staff and the counterparts for technical
issistance programs. These costs would represent about 6% of present esti-
mates of total public recurrent education expenditures in 1980. As para.
3.27 has stated, however, these estimates are regarded as extremely tenta-
tive because of the expected effect of the UNDP task force's recommendations
concerning the degree and direction of educational expansion. In view of
budgetary uncertainties within the near future, the government has obtained
a firm commitment by the United Arab Emirates to provide US$8 million on a
grant basis to finance a portion of the government's share of the project's
capital costs and the project's recurrent costs over the first four and one
half years of operation. Thereafter, based upon the anticipated growth of
the GDP (para. 2.07) and government revenues (para. 2.09), the government
is expected to be able to finance the project's recurrent costs without
external assistance.
V. IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Administrat-' n.  A Project Unit (Annex 8) would be established
within the Ministry of Education and would be responsible for the imple-
mentation of this project. The principal officers of the Unit -- Project
Director, Project Engineer, Quantity Surveyor, Procurement Specialist and
Accountant - would be expatriates financed by the proposed credit. The
Project Unit would also include education specialists for varying periods
totalling 48 man months to assist in the preparation of equipment lists, to
provide liaison with the UNDP task force and governmental agencies, and
to prepare a possible second IDA education project based upon the recommenda-
tions of the task force. The cost of these specialists and the five principal
officers of the Project Unit is estimated to be about $620,000. In addi-
tion, furniture and office equipment for the Unit, estimated at $20,000
would be included within the Credit; all other Project Unit costs would be
borne by the government. The government has provided an assurance that the
Project Unit Director would be made responsible directly to the Minister of
Education. The other ministries involved in the project would designate
senior representatives to liaise with the Project Unit, as required.
5.n2      The five principal officers and the Project Unit education specialists
would he appointed on a full-time basis and would be agreeable to the Association.
The project engineer, the procurement specialist and accountant would be
appointed within six months of the date of effectiveness of the Credit Agree-
ment. The appointment of the project director and the quantity surveyor, and
the adequate staffing and accomodation of the Project Unit, satisfactory to
the Assoclation, would be conditions of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement.
This is likely to be a difficult project to implement, and the first delays
F, vwell be in the appointment of the project unit's principal officers and
supporting staff. The government will be urged to expedite such action, but



- 25 -
a period of effectiveness of approximately six months is recommended to provide
sufficient time for the recruitment of qualified project unit staff and for
the preparation and agreement on the terms of reference and plan of operation
of the UNDP task force.
5.03      Professional services.  As professional services available in the
YAR are not sufficent to handle the planning and supervision of the construc-
tion of the proposed project institutions, the services of expatriate consul-
tant architects will be required for this project. Consulting architectural
firms, acceptable to the Assocation, would be appointed on terms and condi-
tions agreeable to the Association.
5.04      Sites.  Of the 22 project institutions, 13 would be new.  The
government has provided assurances that all required sites, acceptable to
the Association, would be legally acquired before construction is scheduled
to start. The cost of land acquisition would be borne by the government and
is not included in the project cost.
5.05      Procurement.  Contracts for construction and for supply of furniture
and equipment would be awarded in conformity with the Association's Guidelines
for Procurement. Contract documents and procedures for prequalification of
civil works contractors would be acceptable to the Association. The government
has provided an assurance that it would employ civil works contractors accepta-
ble to the Association under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
Detailed furniture and equipment lists would be prepared during the design
stages of project implementation and would be reviewed by the Associatiorn prior
to procurement. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to form
sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk procurement. For the purpose of
comparing foreign and local bids, manufacturers of furniture in the YAR woule
be accorded a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duty
generally applicable to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. prices, whichever
is lower. None of the instructional equipment will be locally manufactured.
The government, however, confirmed during negotiations that all imported
materials and services related to the project would be exempted from duties
and taxes.
5.06      Implementation period.  The period of implementation would be
about 5 years; construction would be completed within about 4 years from
the date of signing of the Credit Agreement (Annex 13). The project is
within the capacity of Yemen's constnrction industry to implement and it
is expected that locally-based firms would win all construction contract
awards. Total building construction annually under the project would cor-
respond to about 9% of the value of expected annual building activity in
the country.
5.07      Disbursements:  The proposed credit would be disbursed on the
basis of (a) 100% of the total costs of furniture and equipment, profes-
sional services, and the salaries of the five Project Unit principal of-
ficers and the Project Unit education specialists (para. 5.01); and (b) 85%
of the costs of site development and construction (Annex 9). The estimated



-26 -
schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 14. Undisbursed funds would be
available for further development of non-formal basic education, if in accordance
with a program agreeable to the Association.
VI. BENEFITS
6.01      The project described above embraces the entire education system
and comprises two distinct major components. One part, comprising the UNDP
task force, is diagnostic and advisory in character, and is designed to pro-
vide sorely needed expertise to guide the Ministry of Education in three
principal areas: (i) school building standards and construction; (ii) manage-
ment of the Ministry and the education system as a whole; and (iii) the im-
provement and planned development of the education system to meet in the
most economical manner the nation's present and projected needs for trained
personnel. The results of the task force studies are expected to have a
profound influence upon the magnitude and the direction of the development
of the education system. Depending upon the speed with which the experts
are recruited, some of their conclusions may be available in about 1 year,
but the complete findings and recommendations are not expected until about
2-1/2 years.
6.02      The other part of this project -- the part proposed for IDA financ-
ing -- is designed to remedy quantitative and qualitative deficiencies which
require immediate correction. The project would make possible an expansion
of every level of education. The expansion at primary level would take the
form of three non-formal schools of a pilot character to be based upon the
recommendations of the task force. These schools may prove to be the fore-
runner of a greatly expanded non-formal system. The project would also pro-
vide (a) at post-primary level, 908 places in one new agricultural training
center and two new vocational training centers, (b) at secondary level, about
1,400 places in three new multilateral upper secondary schools or suitable
alternatives and 960 places in three new primary school teacher training in-
stitutes and (c) at post-secondary level, 180 places in a degree level second-
ary teacher training college. These numbers are not large, but would con-
tribute, nevertheless, a sizeable increase over the present extremely limited
system -- a 78% increase in upper secondary school enrollment, a 155% increase
in primary teacher training at upper secondary school level, and the only
training of its type for secondary teacher training, and agricultural and
vocational training.
6.03      But more important than even the urgently required quantitative
expansion are the qualitative improvements which are expected to result from
the project. The quality of primary schooling, now desperately low, will
improve with the increased employment of qualified teachers made possible by
the project. With the assistance of this project, the present backlog of 2,900
untrained primary school teachers will be either trained in the expanded teacher
training system or replaced by its graduates by 1981. Moreover, the quality



- 27 -
of teacher training itself, both at primary and secondary levels, will be up-
graded with the assistance of the project by the provision of (i) modern
buildings designed and equipped to function effectively as teacher training
institutes, (ii) modern instructional equipment and teaching aids to the
existing institutes which would remain as part of the primary school teacher
training system and (iii) expatriate teacher training specialists and fel-
lowships for counterpart training. In addition, the secondary school system
will be up-graded through the provision of needed instructional equipment to
three existing lower and upper secondary schools to make possible effective
laboratory work, now almost non-existent. And finally, provision is made
to introduce pre-vocational or vocational courses into the secondary school
system, consistent with the recommendations of the UNDP task force, in an
effort to widen the secondary school leavers' horizons.
6.04      The project institutions will be housed in buildings more suited
to their requirements than any of the existing institutions, which are housed
either in inadequate converted buildings or in buildings improperly designed.
They will constitute models of their types of institutions upon which the
future expansion of the system, as it may be related to these institutions,
may be patterned.
6.05      Until the UNDP task force has completed its study and made available
its recommendations, the direction or rate at which the present education
system should be expanded is not clear. Because of the extremely limited size
of the existing education system, the impact of this project upon the YAR
education system will be significant and will not be adversely affected by
the task force recommendations. By expanding, broadening, and up-grading
the education system, the project will increase the supply of greater numbers
of Yemenis with appropriate educational backgrounds to open up new possibilities
for the growth of the system consistent with the task force's recommendations.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AN'D RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(i) At least one year prior to the opening of the relevant
project institutions, separate directorates for (a) primary
education, and (b) technical education and vocational
training will be established within the Ministry of
Education (paras. 4.02 and 4.09);
(ii) on the basis of the task force studies, the government
will (a) within 9 months of the commencement of the task
force, advise the Association of the type of vocational
training in conjunction with secondary education which it
plans to develop and (b) as soon as possible after the
completion of the task force study of the non-formal basic
education centers' requirements, provide the Association with



- 28 -
a detailed plan for initiating this type of education
(paras. 4.06 and 4.11);
(iii)  The government will (a) provide qualified counterparts
to experts as scheduled in Annexes 2 and 8; (b) pay their
national salaries, when applicable, during their studies
abroad; and (c) assign qualified technicians graduating
from the Sana'a Technical School or similar institutions
of comparable standard as instructors and counterparts to
experts in the project Vocational Training Centers
(para. 4.18);
(iv)  the Project Unit will be made operative as early as possible,
with appropriate staffing and adequate accomnodations. The
Project Director and Quantity Surveyor will be appointed as
early as possible and the Project Engineer, Procurement
Specialist and Accountant will be appointed within six months
of the date of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement. All
five officers and the Project Unit education specialists will
be agreeable to the Association and appointed on a full-time
basis. The Project Director will report directly to the
Minister of Education (paras. 5.01 and 5.02);
(v)  the governar .t will employ consulting architects and civil
works contractors acceptable to the Association under terms
and conditions agreeable to the Association (paras. 5.03 and
5.05).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be (a) agreement by the govern-
ment, UNDP, Unesco, and the Association on the terms of reference and the
plan of operation of the UNDP financed task force and (b) the appointment
of the Project Unit Director and Quantity Surveyor, and the adequate staff-
ing and accommodation of the Project Unit (paras. 4.17 and 5.02).
7.03      A condition of disbursement for the Agricultural Training Center
would be the Association's concurrence with the government's plans for ex-
panding the agricultural extension service (para. 4.10). Additional con-
ditions of disbursement for (i) the non-formal basic education centers,
and (ii) the construction of the secondary schools (except for the Sana'a
secondary school), or their recommended alternatives, would be the Associa-
tion's concurrence with the government's plans for initiating non-formal
education and expanding secondary level education based upon the UNDP task
force recommendations (paras. 4.06 and 4.11).
7.04      The project would provide a satisfactory basis for a development
credit of US$11.0 million to the Yemen Arab Republic.



APPEIlTDIX I
Page 1
TYE EDUCATION ANT) TRAIN ING SYSTEM
Administration and Structure
1.        Except for 83 primary schools initiated by religious local com-
munities, the education and training system in the YAR is under the respon-
sibility of the Ministry of Education. In the eight Governorates of the
country, the Ministry of Education is represented by the regional Directors
of Education. At both national and regional levels, this centralized system
of administration is inadequate. The Ministry's services often overlap (Chart
III) and they are located in quite unsuitable facilities; there is no proper
coordination between the national, regional and local levels of administra-
tion; and management is not efficient, despite the dedication of most of-
ficials. Underlying this weakness is the lack of adequate funds and qual-
ified manpower: only 5% of the Ministry's staff has completed upper secondary
school and only 10 officials are university graduates; as for funds, in 1970/
71, only 0.4% of GDP and 4% of government total public expenditures were al-
located to education (1% and 9.4% respectively if foreign aid is included).
This represented US$0.8 per capita (foreign aid included). Considerable
social demand for education combined with this lack of government funds has
led to the spontaneous creation of a cooperative self-help system to meet
local education needs in terms of buildings (mainly village schools) and
subsidies to teachers in cash and kind. These efforts together with external
assistance - which represented about 60% of recurrent education expenditures
in 1970/71 - have solved some questions temporarily but they have also in-
creased the dimension of the whole problem which lies in lack of planning
and control.
2.        The education and training systen (Chart I) follows the Arab States
pattern providing six years of primary education and three years of lower
secondary (called "preparatory") and three years of upper secondcary (called
"secondary") education.  Iligher education in the country lasts four years
and is offered either at the Faculty of Arts, Science and Education or at
the Faculty of Law. Arabic is the language of instruction. There is only
one technical school training industrial technicians in a five-year course
after completion of primary education. There is no pre-school education.
The legal basis of this structure is a decree issued in 1963.
3.         Primary education accounts for 93.47 of overall enrollment, second-
ary education for 6.17' (of which 4.77 for lowyer and 1.4% for upper secondary
levels) and higher education for 0.5% (including students abroad).
4.         In 1971/1972, primary education x7as offered to 124,678 pupils - of
uhoii only 12,239 (9.8%) were girls - in 1,238 schools totalling 3,104 classes.
There were 118,868 pupils in the 1,155 government schools (3,021 classes) and
5,810 in the 83 non official religious community schools (83 classes). All
girls were enrolled in government schools. Only 106 schools (8.5% of the
total) offered a complete 6 year course to 46,420 pupils (37% of primary
enrollment) of whom 8,518 (18%) were girls. Total primary enrollment rep-
resented ahout 12% of the age-group concerned (6-11), with 16% for boys and
1.6% for girls.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
5.        Though primary education is not compulsory in Yemen, social demand
has been considerable since the end of the war in 1970: between 1970 and
1972, total enrollment increased by an average of 32% a year (22% between
1970 and 1971 and 41% between 1971 and 1972).
6.        Of the 3,146 teachers - of whom 127 (4%) were women - only 270 (8.5%)
could be considered as qualified and about 80% had had no secondary education,
47 teachers (1.5%) were expatriates and 3,099 were Yenenis of whom 1,819 (59%)
were employed on a permanent basis.
7.        The average national student:  teacher, student:  class and enroll-
ment: population ratios (40:1, 42:1 and 21:1,000 respectively) are misleading
because of the imbalance between the eight governorates (Annex 1 to this Ap-
pendix), and between rural and urban areas in terms of teacher working sched-
ules, age, qualifications, school buildings standards etc.. This results from
a lack of adequate planning and control.
8.        The curriculum has just been reformed (Annex 2 to this Appendix),
to emphasize Arabic, maths, science and coxmmunity development: Religion has
been reduced from 24%ow to 17%; Arabic has been increased from 27% to 29%, and
maths and science from 26% to 27%; social studies represent 7% the time table;
and "rural development and practice" has been introduced and represents 14%
of the schedule with five hours per week. The new curriculum is an improve-
ment in comparison with the previous one. However, this reform will remain
theoretical as long as there is an extreme shortage of trained teachers and
inspectors, and adequate teaching materials and textbooks are not available.
9.        The efficiency of primary education is low not only in qualitative
but also in quantitiative terms though there has been progress: In 1968-69,
only 17% of Grade I entrants completed Grade 4 (literacy level), 6% completed
Grade 6 and 5% passed the final examination. In 1971-72, 38% reached the
literacy level, 15% reached Grade 6 and 13% succeeded in the final examina-
tion. The number of primary graduates increased from 921 in 1966 to 3,532
in 1972. An average 70% of the candidates pass the Primary Certificate
Examination. Moreover 20% of total primary enrollment consists of overaged
students. If the enrollment ratio is adjusted class by class, then 60% of
the pupils are overaged even if one accepts in each grade pupils one year
older than the standard (7-year olds in Grade I instead of 6-year olds etc.).
If one accepts pupils two years older than the standard, the overaged popu-
lation is still about 40%. This reflects in particular a considerable re-
peating rate.
10.       To reduce the considerable number of illiterates (90% of the popu-
lation), the government intends in the first stage to give priority to the
development and improvement of the first four grades of primary education
all over the country through more appropriate promotion and teaching. Ade-
quate training of primary teachers, teacher trainers and inspectors as well
as further improvement of curriculum, teaching materials and methods have
therefore top priority.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
II.       Second level education is divided into three cycles:  (i) the three-
year lower secondary cycle which is subdivided into two options: (a) a gen-
eral cycle and (b) teacher training for girls; an average 80% of primary
graduates actually enter this cycle; (ii) t'ne three-year upper secondary
cycle which is subdivided into three options: (a) general secondary with
a common first grade (Grade 10) and the other t7wo grades (11 and 12) offer-
ing either arts or science courses, and (b) teacher training - only Prepara-
tory Certificate holders are allowed into the upper secondary cycle which
prepares for the General Secondary Certificate; in addition to secondary
general certificates, primary teacher graduates get professional diplomas,
the Primary and the Secondary Diplomas aft:er completion of the lower and
upper secondary training courses respectively - and (iii) a five-year tech-
nical course in one school recruiting primary education graduates after a
strict selection process, and training industrial middle-level technicians.
12.       In 1971/72, second level education was offered to 8,131 students -
of whom 479 (5.9%) were girls - in 56 schools.  At lower 3ocondary level, 51
schools enrolled 6,290 students of whom 378 (67) were girls.  They were dis-
tributed as follows:  (i) 5,768 (of whom 36 were girls or 0.6%) in 47   n   1
lower secondary schools, (ii) 180 boys in one technical schools and (iii
342 girls in three Primary School Teacher Training Institutes for Girls
As a matter of fact, teacher training is becoming the only opportunity girls
have to obtain second level education. At upper secondary level, five in-
stitutions (49 classes) enrolled 1,841 students of whom 101 (5%) were girls:
(i) 1,505 were enrolled in the four general upper secondary schools; (ii)
60 were enrolled in two commerce classes accommodated in one of the general
schools; and (iii) 276 were primary teacher trainees - of whom 192 were boys
enrolled in one institute and 84 (30%) were girls enrolled in the upper sec-
ondary sections of the Primary School Teacher Training Institutes for Girls.
Total secondary enrollments represented about 1% of the age group concerned
(12-17).
13.       There were 464 teachers of whom 58 were Yemenis - all teaching
religion - and 406 expatriates (87.5%) from Egypt (226), the People's
Republic of China (54), Iraq (51), Syria (40) and Russia (9). An additional
26 were Palestinians. Only 25 of them were women (5.4%). At lower secondary
level, there were 337 teachers resulting in an average student: teacher ratio
of 19:1. The ratio was 15:1 at upper secondary level with 127 teachers. All
teachers could be considered as qualified.
14.       Second level education in its modern aspect is a recent creation: be-
fore the 1962 revolution, there were only three small institutions. It was
in 1965 that modern secondary education actually began. Since then, social
demand has been considerable, especially since the return of peace in 1970.
Between 1965 and 1972, total enrollments in general secondary education have
increased by an annual average of 26% at lower secondary level and 23% at
upper secondary level (30% at lower secondary intake - Grade 7 - and 15%
at upper secondary intake - Grade 10). This high increase was accentuated
between 1970 and 1972 and reached 36% at lower secondary level and 27% at
upper secondary level with a 50% increase at Grade 7 intake between 1971
and 1972.



APPENDIX I
Page 4
15.       The average national ratios are as misleading as in primary educa-
tion. Though the student: teacher ratios were 19:1 and 15:1 and the student:
class ratios, 31:1 and 38:1 in lcwer and upper secondary cycles respectively,
the concentration of students in the three major cities, Sana'a, Hodeida and
Taiz, with variable distribution of teachers and classes gave student:teacher
ratios ranging from about 12:1 in Rada'a to 35:1 in Taiz and student:class
ratios ranging from 16:1 in Beida to 50:1 in Taiz.  Moreover, the subject
matter teaching schedule often causes 40 to 50-place classes to be utilized
by 100 students at a time in the three main cities.
16.       The curriculum of the general lower secondary course is rather a
continuation of primary education than an introduction to secondary educa-
tion with 17'% religion, 19% Arabic, 17% English (the only essential change)
and 11% social studies - which makes 64% in arts subjects - 28,' maths and
science, 5%,' prevocational courses and 3% sports. In the three pilot schools
to be equipped under the project, a new curriculum would be introduced to
balance arts subjects with scientific and prevocational ones: 31% of the
timetable would be allocated to religion, Arabic and social studies, 11% to
English - which makes 42%7t in arts subjects - 30%, to maths and science, 23%'
to prevocational courses (including an introduction to commerce) and 5% to
physical education. At upper secondary level, the curriculum suffers from the
same deficiencies as at loaer secondary level with a first conmon year (Grade
10) including 66%. in arts subjects, 29% in maths and science and 5% in pre-
vocational activities,  'oreover, students can choose only between two courses,
Arts or Science, in the last two grades (Grades 11 and 12). As a whole, the
3-year upper secondary course includes 82% arts and 12% scientific courses
for an Arts student and 52% arts and 45% maths and science for a Science
studenlt. This imbalance in favor of Arts is all the more detrimental because
almost 80% of upper secondary students currently choose the science courses.
As external assistance rarely equips the schools it finances, there is almost
a complete lack of adequate scientific and prevocational equipment, except
for the three Russian-built lower secondary schools and the Chinese-assisted
technical school.
17.       This combined with teachers' deficiencies (para. 6) results in the
poor quality of general secondary education as a whole especially with regard
to manpowier training requirements, notwithstanding the progress in quantita-
tive terms (grade-to-grade promotion and success at examinations): Between
1968 and 1972, the percentage of Grade 7 entrants completing the lower sec-
ondary course rose from 53% to 70/% and an average 70% of candidates passed
the Preparatory Certificate Examination. The number of lower secondary
graduates increased from 330 in 1966 to 1107 in 1972.  About 60% of these
graduates entered upper secondary education between 1969 and 1972. The per-
centage of Grade 10 entrants completing the 3-year upper secondary course
rose froma 74% in 1969 to over 85% in 1972; and an average 65% of candidates
passed the Secondary Certificate. The number of upper secondary graudates
increased fron 235 in 1969 to 521 in 1972. The government intends to improve
the quality of second level education to prepare better middle level staff
for the more diversified economic development of the country. Therefore,
tl- development of modernized curricula and related teaching materials and



APPENDIX I
Page 5
methods - to educate adequately the students leaving school at any level and
giving at the same time the required background to those who will continue
their studies-, the setting up of a school and vocational guidance system
and adequate training of teachers are priority targets.
18.       In 1971/72, primary teacher training was offered to 618 students
in four institutes, one for boys in Sana'a at upper secondary level with an
enrollment of 192 (31% of primary teacher trainees) and three for girls at
lower and upper secondary levels, one in each of the three major cities,
Sana'a, Hodeida, and Taiz, with a total enrollment of 426 (69%). There were
342 trainees at lower secondary level -- all girls -- and 276 at upper sec-
ondary level of whom 84 were girls. Because of the acute need for female
teachers, the government's policy has been to reduce girls' admission into
general secondary schools and increase it into the Primary School Teacher
Training Institutes which thus have practically become the only means for
girls to get secondary education. The estimated total output of the train-
ing system since it started has reached about 300 teachers of whom 270 were
working in the schools in 1971-72. They were the only qualified teachers
among the total of 3146. In 1972, the total output of the four institutes
was 120 of whom 60 were girls.
19.       rmergency teacher training courses are also offered to primary
education leavers at the Sana'a Primary School Teacher Training Institute
for Boys as follows: (a) 3-month courses for primary Grade 4 or Grade 5
leavers going to teach in the first two grades of primary education; (b)
4-month courses for primary graduates going to teach in Grades 3 and 4; and
(c) 6-month courses for primary graduates or secondary school leavers going
to teach in Grade 5 and 6. In 1972-73, 260 trainees of these categories were
enrolled. An estimated 500 teachers have so far been trained in this manner.
Except for religion, all teacher trainers are expatriates.
20.       At lower secondary level, the 3-year curriculum includes 25% mathe-
matics and science and 18% educational training (1 3% theoretical and 5% prac-
tical), 50% Arts and 7% physical training and handiwork. At upper secondary
level, the 3-year schedule includes 50% Arts, 22% education (16% theoretical
and 6% practical), 25% maths and science and 3% physical training. Trainees
have also to choose between Arts and Science sections in Grades 11 and 12 as
in general secondary schools. The four institutes are located in adequate
new facilities -- built with Kuwait assistance -- but they are almost com-
pletely unequipped. This minimizes practical training in laboratories or
self-instruction in libraries. Teaching practice is given in city primary
schools for male trainees and in the training institutes for girls, as
these institutes are utilized on a two shift basis: one shift is used for
teacher training; and during the other, the institutes are used as practice
primary schools with a total enrollment of about 2,000 pupils. To help cope
with the shortage of teachers, female trainees are assigned 18 hours of
teaching in primary classes per week in addition to their training program
(36 to 38 hours a week). Child care and home economics are being introduced
into female teacher training with the assistance of Unesco experts.



APPENDIX I
Page 6
21.       The government intends to make the training system more productive
and better adapted to the needs of the country. By 1975, the pre-service
training period will he reduced to two years after completion of lower sec-
ondary education and a one-year in-service training course will be set up;
wbi-le attending the latter course, teachers will be replaced by secondary
graduates performing their one-year national service as primary teachers.
The modernized curriculum will include 25%oz religion, Arabic, English and
social studies, 17.5% maths and science, 35% education (25% practical and
10 theoretical) and 17.5% community development (agriculture, cooperative
management, adult education methods, rural technology with woodwork and
metal work, horme economics and child care). The science program, together
with the physical education course (5% of the schedule), will include health,
nutrition and hygiene practices.
22.       In 1971/72, higher education was offered to about 700 students
of whon about 20 (2.8%) were girls.  This enrollment represented about 0.5%
of the age group concerned.  There were 260 students in the YAR in the two
existing faculties which started operating in 1970/71: the Faculty of Arts,
Science and Education and the Faculty of Law; the remaining enrollments were
studying aborad.
(i) The Faculty of Arts, Science and Education enrolled 139
students of whom 14 (10%) were girls.  The recruitment
increased From 13 in 1970/71 to 126 in 171M72. The Faculty
trains secondary teachers in four-year Arts or Science courses.
In 1971/72, only 10 students (7°) were taking Science.  Origi-
nally, there was a two-year course for lower secondary teacher
trainees but it was cancelled in 1970. All students receive
a monthly stipend of YFR 100 (UJS$20). The curriculum is pri-
marily that of an ordinary faculty with education courses added
throughout the four years: the educational course represent
12% of the 4-year course (3%' practical and 9% theoretical).
The drop-out rate has so far reached 8K. The Faculty is
associated with Ain Shams University in rgypt and, in 1971/72,
all the permanent teaclhing staff (14) was Egyptian.  There were
also 2 part-timie teachers. The Facultv is located in the Sana'a
Primary School Teacher Training Institute for Boys and is being
extended on the 3-hectare adjacent site. It is equipped and
financed in terms of capital and recurrent eFxpenditures by
the Government of Kuwait.  In 1972/73, the enrollment of the
Faculty is 272 with 144 students in the first year.  Only 28
(10%) students are taking sciences. There are 23 permanent
and 4 part-time teachers, of whom 26 are Egyptians. The
student: teacher ratio is 11:1.
(ii)  The Faculty of Law enrolled 121 bovs in contemporary and
Koranic (Sharia) law courses given by 3 permanent and 4 part-
time teachers in 1971-72. The recruitment rose from 37 in
1970-71 to 89 in 1971/72 hut the dropout rate has been high
(34%). The Faculty is also located in the facilities of the



APPENTDIX I
Page 7
Sana'a Primary School Teacher Training Institute for Boys.
In 1972/73, the enrollment is 167 of whom 87 are in the
First Year. There are 5 permanent and 7 part-time teachers.
The student:teacher ratio is 20:1.
(iii) Training abroad (Annex 3 to this Appendix) has taken consider-
able importance since 1963 when it was initiated. Between
1963/64 and 1971/72, 1396 students were sent abroad on fellow-
ships and by 1970/71, 399 had returned to the YAR. The esti-
mated return rate ranges fron 50 to 60% depending on the duration
of the courses abroad.
23.       Except for traditional crafts taught through the ancient on-the-job
watching and doing process, technical education was offered in 1971/72 only
in the residential post-primary technical school initiated in 1970 by the
People's Republic of China. There were 180 students enrolled in the first
two years of the five-year program (Crades 7 to 11) training sub-professional
teclnicians in carpentry, motor vehicle maintenance, electrical installation
and electronics, building and road construction and machine-shop work. The
total capacity of the school is 450 to 500 places (90 to 100 in each of the
five years). The annual output of about 90 technicians from 1975 should
satisfy the needs of industry for middle-level technicians in the foreseeable
future. Grade 7 entrants are selected according to strict criteria: they
must be primary graduates with a minimum of a 60% pass in mathematics and
they must succeed in physical and intelligence tests. The curriculum is
very practical and aims at developing technical ingenuity, resourcefulness
and leadership. Each course lays particular emphasis on manufacture and re-
pair of damaged parts for recycling purposes. The first two years aim mainly
at reinforcing general education, in particular maths and sciences, teaching
the Chinese language and introducing technology and vocational practice.
During these first two years of apprenticeship, students are closely super-
vised. From the third year on, they work increasingly on their own, defin-
ing for themselves the issues raised and the possible solutions. They then
enter a form of journeymanship and are attached to industry while continuing
formal education at the school. This type of training has the advantage of
encouraging the natural ability of Yemenis to adapt themselves to a situa-
tion and learn from experience. It also fosters leadership which is of
basic importance as the YAR enters an industrial era with so little skilled
manpower.  This informal type of junior apprenticeshin followed by delega-
tion of work responsibility under expert guidance makes this school the
success it is during its initial years. There are 24 teachers of whom 4
are Yemenis and 20 are Chinese. The Yenienis teach religion, Arabic and
social studies; 14 Chinese teach the remaining subject matter and 6 Chinese
instructors are in charge of workshop instruction. About 50 of the best
third year students will be sent to China on fellowships during 1973 for
two to three years of further training.  When they return, they are expected
otrun the school and to be assigned as instructors in the project's vocational
raihing centers. Russian bilateral aie provided three secondary schools with



APPENDIX I
Page 8
woodwork andl m:ietalwork facilities; but, though these schools were initially
intended to be technical institutions, they are now general lower secondary
schools with prevocational workshops. They will be particularly useful for
the introduction of the new comprehensive lower secondary curriculum which
the government i.tends to develop.
24.       One of the main weaknesses of the education and training system
in the YAR is the complete lack of agricultural education. There was an
agricultural school operated by the jlinistry of Agriculture in Sana'a from
1960 to 1967; hut after training 106 specialists at various levels, the
school was phased out for lack of clear manpower, educational government
policy and budgetary constraints. Since 1967, the government has relied
entirely on training abroad for the supply of agricultural graduates. This
supply is very irregular as there is no planning for the recruitment of can-
didates to fellowships in this respect. In 1971/72, the staff of the Ilin-
istry of Agriculture included 40 university graduates -- of whom only one
was a veterinarian -- and 92 subprofessional technicians.
25.       As for rural training, in 1971/72, (a) the Farm Mechanization Train-
ing and Extension Project operated by FAO in Sana'a since August 1971, with
the collaboration of farm machinery firms, included six courses with a total
enrollment of 102 farmers; (b) the FAO Highlands Project in Taiz offered a
few farmers one to two-day sessions on specific subjects such as coffee, animal
husbandry, soils and f-rtilizers and plant protection; and (c) the Federal
Republic of Germany provided demonstration sessions on fertilizers and new
seed and plant varieties to farmers in the vicinity of its experimental farm
in Sana'a and also in various areas of the YAPR through a mobile expert team.
The government intends to develop farmer training by priority in order to in-
crease and improve farm production and thereby increase the income of about
90, of the population. This requires the reorganization of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the setting up of an efficient extension service which,
according to international standards, should include 1500 subprofessional
agents -- of whom 1,200 for agricultural extension and 300 for animal hus-
bandry -- and 320 Drofessionals., of whom 240 for agriculture and 80 for
veterinary science. Subprofessionals will be trained in the YAR and through
increased training-abroad programs which will also supply the professionals
required.
26.       Adult education and literacy programs are just starting in the YAR.
Recognizing the need for reducing the illiteracy rate (907), the government
passed a law in 1970 establishing a Supreme Literacy Organization attached
to the Tfinistry of Education. This organization is in charge of the financial
and educational setting up of literacy programs.  At the local level, these
programs are carried out under the responsibility of the literacy sub-divi-
sion of each governorate. All government ministries and related institutions
are represented in the Supreme Literacy Organization and co-operate in the
literacy campaign which is financed by a state budgetary allocation to the
.linistry of Fducation, a "literacy tax" imposed on cinema tickets and mail,



APPENDIX I
Page 9
and additional funds provided by various institutions and business enterprises.
Though the law stlpulates that after four years--by October 1974--the literacy
certificate will be required for employment or promotion in public and private
institutions and firms, the literacy campaign was still carried out on a
limited scale by 1971/72 mainly for lack of trained staff and teaching materials.
About 500 students in the 10 to 30 year age range were enrolled in the evening
classes given in the major towns and in literacy and practical training courses
offered by the Public Administration Institute and the Syrian Cultural Center
in Sana'a. The government intends to intensify the literacy campaign by (a)
adding an adult education method component in all teacher training courses,
(b) developing specific teaching materials and (c) setting up new evening
classes in as many schools as possible, comtbined with the priority develop-
mient of the first four grades in all primary schools.






PRIMARY rDUCATION
Comparative Percentages
.                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~NaitiosaE
Governorates    Sana'a      Hodeida      Taiz        Ibb      Haja     Saada       Radata       Beida     Total or
Average
Villages          34%'        311t        141-'      18%       7 -51'    6.8%1       6.4%        2.3%       low.:
Population        33.5%        13%        11.5%     15%        107%       8.5%       5.0% 3O5%              100%
Enrollment        30%         13.5%       30a       9.25%      8.5%      1.5%        6%          1.25%      100%
Classes           22%         17%         25        12< 2%     15%       2%o         5.5%        1.5        100%
Teachers          29%        114%         27M       9.5%       10.5%     1.25%       7.25%       1.5%       100l%
Student:
Teacher ratio     42           39         45         39        33        48          34          34        1:40
Student:
Class ratio       57           33         50        32         23         31         45          34        1.342
Students
per 1,000
Inhabitants       19          22          54        14         18         4          25           8          21        M
H



ANNEX 2 TO APPENDIX I
PRIMARY EDUCATION
NEW CURRICULUM
G R A D E S                 Total
Subjects                1      2     3     14           6     Hours      %
Religion                 6     6     6     6      6     6       36       17
Arabic                  12    12     9      9     9     9       60       29
Social Studies           -     -     3     3      4     4       14        7
Mathematics             6      6     6     6      6     6       36       17
L/
Sciences                3      3     3     4      4     4       21       10
Rural Development
and Practice 2         5      5     5     5      5     5       30       14
Sports                   2     2     2     2      2     2       12        6
Total                  34    34    34    35    36    36        209     100
Source: Ministry of Education
Including nutrition and hygiene.
Agriculture, cooperative management, rural technology (woodwork and
metalwork), childcare and home economics (for girls).



STUDIES ABROAD
YEARS                 1963/64         1964/65         1965/66          1966/67          1967/68         1968/69          1969/70          1970/71         1971/72          TOTAL
SOURCES                S    G          S    G          S    G           S    G          S    G           S    G           S    c          S    G           S    G         S      G
Bulgaria              3               10                                                                 4    1                                                          17       1
Czechoslovakia         7              10              34                8    8         10               12    2           5    5          5                4             95      15
D.R.C. I/                              1              20               17                7    2          7                8    5           5              17             82       7
Hungary                               20                               15                5               5                5                5               5             60
Rumania                               25              10               10                                                 5    3          5                7             62       3
U.S.S.R.              40              40               34              28   52          70   46              41          32   20          23              21            288    159
Yugoslavia            11              10               6                6    4           5                     3          4    3          4                              46      10
Algeria                                                                                       2          6               10              20                              36       2
Arab League                                                                                                                                2                              2
Egypt                                 25              39               20   13         34   23                20              30         43   15          25            186    101
Iraq                                  33              15               13                     1         25    9          15   15           5              10            116      25
Kuwait                                10                               20   19           6              27                S               18                      w      86      19
Libya                                                                                         4          6                               25               10      -3     41       4
Saudi Arabia                                                                                                                             45               52      M      97
Sudan                                                                   7                                                                                         .       7
Syria                                                                        3                2         10    1                5           5               5      .-     20      11
France                                                                                                                                                     3      -       3
Italy                 5                                                                                        1               1          2    -.                         7       2
U.S.A.                                                 4                      1               2                                                 a                 >       4       3
Center for the                                                                                                                                                     4
Blind                                2               2      2              2          2                2                2                     o                        10       4
I.C.S.D.2/             5                                                4    4          2                8                3                     u                 e      22       4
I.D.A.  3/                                                             72   21                                 1                1               z          19     0      91      23
Regional Center                                                                                                                                                   W;
(Beirut)                                             2      2        2    2           2                2    2           2                                              10       6
W.H.O.                                                                                                   6                                                                6
UNESCO                                                                                                                                     2      _                       2
TOTAL                 71             186             166      4       222  129        143   82         120   81          96   88         214   15         178          1396    399
ACRONYMS:  1/ Democratic Republic of Germany                         ABBREVIATIONS:   S -  Students sent abroad on fellowship.
2/ International Center for Social Development                              G -  Graduates returning to the YAR.
3/ International Development Agency Lebanon                      SOURCE:   Ministry of Education






APPENDIX II
Page 1
MAUNPOWER REQUIREMENTS
1.        Detailed information is not yet available on either labor market
or population. All the figures indicated below are estimates made by the
Central Planning Organization, on the basis of previous and ongoing sectoral
studies and particularly the sample survey in the region of Sana'a 1/. Of the
estimated 65,000 workers in the modern sector in 1971, 15% (about 10,000)
were employed in the secondary sector, 23% (about 15,000) in public administra-
tion, and 62% (about 40,000) in the tertiary sector.
2.        As available data are not sufficient for detailed projections, pending
the completion of the population census scheduled for 1974, global projections
were made to assess priorities in the field of education development. By 1981,
on the basis of a 4% annual growth rate of GDP, employment in the modern sector
(including administration) is estir.mated to be of the order of 110,000, or one
wage earner per 65 inhabitants 2/ versus one per 90 inhabitants in 1971. These
estimates were based on the following assumptions: a 5% compounded annual
growth rate of the modern sector's employment, including administration, and
an attrition rate of 3% per annum. The average annual absorptive capacity
would then be about 9,000 workers by 1980-1985. Considering the extremely
low level of qualification of the existing labor force, it is estimated that
out of these 9,000 workers, 2% (180) should have the professional level, 8%
(720) the sub-professional level, and about 20% (1,800) should be trained as
skilled workers (Annex 1 to this Appendix). On the basis of the respective
size of the related sectors (para 1, above), about one-fourth of the skilled
workers (450) should receive training in industrial trades, and three-fourths
(1,350) in nanagement, administration and commerce fields.
3.        In addition, an analysis of the labor absorption capacity of the
health and agricultural sectors in 1980 estimated that about 300 middle level
technicians would be required annually in health services 3/ and 100 in agri-
culture 4/. Professional staff would be trained abroad for both sectors.
Teaching staff requirements would be determined by the degree to which the
education system is actually expanded, which in turn will be determined by
the governmentts decisions regarding the development of formal primary educa-
tion and the amount of foreign assistance provided. Requirements might be
1,600 primary teachers and 180 second level teachers annually by 1980.
1/   Made by the Italian Consulting firm "Italconsult".
2/   If the population increases annually by 2.5%, as expected.
3/   Taking the ongoing WHO projects into consideration.
4/   Considering the projected qualified staff requirements made by the
Ministry of Agriculture on the basis of its possible budgetary appro-
priations.



APPENDIX II
Page 2
4.        Annex 2 to this Appendix matches the projected output of the general
education system with the needs for either direct employment or further studies
and training. It shows that the expected output of the general education system
(700 graduates from upper secondary, 4,000 from lower secondary and 16,500 from
primary education) would basically meet the qualified manpower requirements
summarized in Annex 1 to this Appendix. However, before they are employed,
general education graduates should receive formal or non-formal vocational
training courses of variable duration.



ANNEl 1 to APPENDIX II
Average Annual Demand of Qualified Manpower
by Sector and Qualification
(1960 - 1985)
Mode'"n,                              Teacher
SectAr 2.    Health      Agriculture  Training   Total
Professional                 180            20            20         180        400
Sub-professional             720           300           100       1,600       2,720
Skilled workers            1,800                                               1,800
Semi- & unskilled workers  6,300                                               6,300
Total                 9,000          320            120       1,780     11,220
_!
Including  industry, commerce, transportation, services, administration.



PROJECTED AVERAGE ANNUAL OUTPUT OF THE GENERAL EDUCATION SYSTEM9
AND NEEDS FOR FURTHER STUDIES OR DIRECT EMPLOYMENT
(1980 - 1985)
EMPLOYMENT IN THE MODERN SECTOR
LEVELS                                OUTPUT
PROFESSIONALS        SUB-PROFESSIONALS        SKILLED WORKERS           UNSKILLED WORKERS
Higher                                                              l - o- 400
EducationX
Upper                              4___0___250____                                        2.720
Lower 1o151                                                                 1)                                       1
Secondarv ~~~~~~~~380. 1,0
Primary                       7,3001,420
Education                                L_                  _                          *, Agriculture
Traditional activities;
Self-employment
6,300
Literacy Level                            65.000
(1) 1 to 3 Veers' vocational, agricultural, health or teacher training                                                                                      H
12) short in-servieL training
World Bank - 7391



APPENDIX III
Page 1
EXTERNAL AID
Recurrent Expenditure
1.        The expansion of the education system has been almost entirely
financed by external aid, mainly bilateral assistance. In 1970/71, 60% of
the overall recurrent expenditure for education was financed by external
sources; the estimated breakdown is as follows: YR 3.05 million (US$610,000)
or 21.5% for salaries of expatriate teachers, and YR 10.95 million (US$2.19
raillion) or 78.5% for other recurrent expenditures. No actual figure is
available for 1971/72.
2.        External aid has been increased tremendously in 1972/73.  Salaries
for expatriate teachers amount to YR 13.8 million (US$2.76 million), four and
a half times as much as in 1970/71. The breakdown by sources of financing
and by level of education is as follows:
Expatriate Teaching Staff
Level of Education            Annual          Average Annual
Financing                                          Cost in         Salaries for
Sources       Primary   Secondary    Total        lS$             Teachers (US$)
Saudi Arabia       27         223        274 /1   730,000 /1            2,650
Abu Dhabi          -          148         148      547,50"              3,700
Kuwait             39          69         108      365,000              3,380
Qatar              19          20          39      109,500              2,800
Iraq               37          63         100      263,000              2,630
Syria              -           86          86      258,000              3,000
Egypt              46           6          52      110,000              2,120
Libya                   150               150      375,000              2,500
Total        168   150  615         957    2,761,600
/1   Unicef pays only US$150 per year per teacher for 24 of these teachers.
With regard to other current expenditures, at the time of appraisal,
US$1.2 million had already been made available:
Kuwait           US$  712,950
Algeria               245,000
Abu Dhabi             226,600
Qatar                  49,000
Total      US$1,233,610



APPENDIX III
Page 2
In addition, Saudi Arabia has provided 85 fellowships for studies abroad and
clothing for 1,000 scouts; Kuwait has provided 7 fellowships for studies abroad
and 20,000 books for literacy programs; Abu Dhabi has agreed to provide US$8
million for financing higher education.
Capital Expenditure
3.        Contrary to recurrent expenditure, an aggregation of external aid
for capital expenditure on a yearly basis is not possible because of commit-
ments over different periods of time and lack of data regarding precise timing
of implementation. However, from 1969 to 1972, external assistance financed
the construction of 87 primary schools, 12 general lower secondary and four
general upper secondary schools, one technical secondary school and four primary
teacher training institutes.



APPENDIX IV
BUILDING SYSTEMS
Economic rationality as well as government regulations dictate the
use of local building materials whenever possible. The selection of the ap-
propriate construction system reduced construction cost estimates by approx-
imately 40% from the original figures of the request documents.
The building costs in this report have been computed on the basis
of the following assumptions:
1.   Sana'a:         All construction is in stone, with bearing walls
and reinforced concrete slab roofs and stone
foundations everywhere. Boarding facilities are
assumed to be built in the same fashion but with
walls of baked brick instead of stone.
2.   Hodeida:        All construction is in reinforced concrete with
hollow (cerient) blocks for wall filling.  The
foundations are in reinforced concrete using
special anti-salt water (marine) cement.
3.   Taiz aid Ibb:  As in Sana'a but boarding facilities are also
built in stone.






00000                              0.0000000001
08                                    S880o oo
- 0 0                                         
008., ooo.,.,..oo   o                                     00.0000000
0.000                           0    0   -,
8888.8M8                               -
.0g.00.0  000                                                00
;                                                     0* 00 0000 0001
8.88
I     -oooo     -
0                           000000    800
1                                                 00
000000000                                      .t8H0? 
.00!00
a .2-8;
               000000800               1                              8   100
0      0000            .0.0                8  iS 8
000000                 000      .000    0.0000.0   .'00             0    0                              00    0.
00       00    0           0            o
.0 0 0 - 0    0 00      0          0                 00     0  .0         0
S
.0        5
0000000000    000 0 0 00 0   0 0000 00 0 0   0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 000 0.0 0 0 .0 0 .00  .0 0 0    0000 000.000  0
000   o0005500 0000.00000000000000000000000              0000000000         0
000    0 00000000  o 0.0000000 00.00.000  0000  00000000.00    0
0                                      0      0      00                        0                                        0 -   0
00               -00000 000000000000   000. 00000000000000.000.00000000000000000.00000000             00-000000000000   0 -   0
0                                                                                                                       0  00  0
0.               00.00 0 0 00000.00000000000 00 0   00000.000000000 0 0000000 00 0 000 0 00   0 0 0    00 - 000000000   0   0
000 0   00 00  000 000   00 0000 0.0  .00 00000 000000000000000              00        0000000000      0   0
000     000000000000      0.   a
00000000000000            00 00.0500                                       000  .000000000000  00  0
0              00000000000000000               000000000000000.0000005-00000000000000050000.000000                  0    0
0              0000000000000000    000 0 0000    000000 0 0   0 0000 0 000000000 00 0.000000.0   00000    0000000000  000   0
0              0000.0  0000  .00000    00 000 0000  .00000000.00.0000.00000  00 .0 00.0     0000     00 0 0 000000         0
00000000  00   00           00000000-000000000000    000.00000000000..00.0000   00 00   0   000             0000000000        00000
0.0000000  00 0 0      000 0000000000 0000   00000000    000000000.00-0.. 00.0- 000 000. .0000..0   0000    00000000000       0   0 00
0     0         0   00000             000 0          00      0  0   0       00 0 .0   0   00 00                           0  .0
.888.888
.0 000 000000000             0000000    00         0       0000    00000         0000000000        0   000000
0000000000000000    00000000    000000000   .00000000000000000000000000    000       000000000000     0   000000
0       00  0  000   00          0            00            0  .0    0   0  00         0            .0
00    a
000 0. 0    00000.000000000 00000   00. 0.00.000.0   0000000000   00000000- 000000000000000000    000  0-00000000000  0  00000
00
00 0       000000 000o00000    0.00000000000000000000000000.00000000000000000    000             0000000000       0   5000000    0
0.     00 0          00          00           000      0 0 0   000 00 00 0                                         0.0.000    .0
05                                                                                             00 0    0
S
ooooo
8
08.8                       S;S580880.SS000000000000000000000000000o00.-0-000000.000000.00 0    0000000000                    0
85                                                                                                    .                .      0
0000000000    0,OoOO'0.  0000000o000.000000000*00000000000000    000-0    0000000-00
00                           0000              .000       03          00000           000          00           0  00
0.                   00000000000    00000000    00000000000   0.000000000000000000000000000           0000000000        0     00000
000 000000 00000000.0000000000000    00000-000000000000000.00000000              .0 000000000     .0         I
000000    00000                 0.0    0 00000    00                      0           00         0
00             OOOoOOOOOOO    000000000   0000000000   000000000000000003000000000000    000     0000000000000    0
0    .0  000    0                           0            0
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000-0   000.0000008  00
8 o S                  0-0000-0-000-000000.000000    00000000    000000000000000000-0000000    0000    000000000          0
.0     000      0000            00         00000               0        00*       0000                    5
4                                0000    00.0    00000.    00000             00      000       000000000           .00000-0         0   3Ogo
0000000000 00000000000000000000-0000000.000000 0000000 0000    000                0000. 00000      0
000      00          00   00         .0  .00                  o   0     0  0    0       0    *0
0         0 08
0    otSo0.o00o0oooooooooooooo  00   .00000..000000000000000 0000.0000    00             00000000000
0 48
00 0     0-0000 000000000    000000000    000 00000   000000000000000 000  . 00   0000    0000000000       00
00 00   . 0    0 .                                                .                                    8 0.08
0000: 0500000000:                   00000:       : 0   000      0000000000000
001.--:!                        0 - .                          0.             0                            0___________






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLiC                                                        TECHNICAL  ASSISTANCE
EDUCATION PROJECT
TO THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
(TASVK FORCE)
EXPECTED                                             TYPE OF                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
SOVRCE OF                                            TECXNICAL                                                                                                                          3                  4
FINANCIEG      UITS             LOCATICO       ASDIDTADCE                  IDRSCRESTDON_ __ _ _ _                                                                                                                  _ _ _ _             _ _ _ _               . .        _
FDINANCING          UNM LSCE ~TIQN   ASSISTANCE                                 DFSCR FI3121 314   / 12 3 4  (2  314 /12 3 4  /i 2 3  4T   12  3 4  1   213 4 .
UNTDP/ W:.SSCO!                                                                                                                                                  .         .        .. . .                                 ,
5r~orgaaicior. Scol  Scc,c'c       Ecocort 1   Proj-ct Director (xo-lge-eo.t Specilist._
1   PlRDning and Stotstic.
1               C.c,ng, hootin,g, BdooctSng
1   M_noge_m.t gnd AdRimstrati-on
1   Voc_ttoc-i a,d Sho.ol Guid-cc
hellor ship.         1   PSannchg  n-d Ststioti-c
1   Financing, Costong, BdOOetiog
1   Manag_ment and AdoEci.tratioo                                  ,                                              .  .._
1    ohool and Vocational Gid- .ce                                |         ;
School Einldind    50c             x dperts            S1  Arhitect                                                         !
Unit                                               1   Engieesr
1 Cr.fteinan
1   Purnhtore Lssigner 
EquipRe-t Con...ltnts (Short ter-)
Pelloiships          1   Arohitect t                                                                         ..........................
1   Ergineep                                                                 I      ...........
1   IDentity S     -rvo'ri
Eddcotion Unit    Son-s            Ixeprts              1   PrSnery- Sd-conio  -rgrn   and Methods
1   scientifio Edumstion Progrems and Methods.
1    're-eocntlntafti-1EdAta - ?-rogroec anid Mthoe I
Acu-t Ed-cation EDd Liter-cy Progrnmo  t Msthods
F Psmily Education,Fygiens,Nutrition, SooN CcocomEci
N -on-FormAl Fducation specisli. t                                                                ___         _
S   hUdio-VTte-l Tchrnique- -, Td-ot-onl Te-hco-JE_
1   Librr.sn ti
1   Tentbook Developm-nt                                                                 i                      _ .                     .             _      _i
1   Tenching Mxt-cril DsveloeRnp t                                                               I
FPl.o1.hips          1   Te-ching M6terta Dsvelop-tni                                                         I        *
I   Txtb-ok D ..slop_stec                                                                I_
PROJECT
LEGEND                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         ~~MPLEMENTATION  Re  on LEINIT A Giono    --                            I- -
E<PEPTS                                            ~~~~~~SCHEDULE
FELLOWSHIP5  FOR
UNIVERSITY rRADIJATCS                       . .....rCALENDAR  YEARS                                                    _     _ 7_      .                                                                  -            +
. .            _       W.   Y:    I           .           ._.                                .-                                 .  ;
z
rri






YEKE1 ARAB REPUBLIC
PRIMARY AND GMERAL SECONDARY E)UCATION DEVELOPIKENT
1971/72 - 1980/61
Average Annual Enrollnent                                                  Student/Teacher
LEVEL                       Growth Rate                  Enrollments           Teachers              Ratios
.  ___________________    1969/72   1972/ 2   1931/65      1971/72  1980/31   1971/72   1980/81   1971/72   19,80/81
PRDIMRY                   3°to- 003%  15%      10%        12)j,700  1415,000    3,150     3,00       40:1       50:1
L7WER         36%       12%        10a'        5,730    16,300       300        580     19:1        23:1
SECONDARY
UPPER         27%        7%         7%         1,500      2,700      100        110     15:1        24:1
SUB-TOTAL     314%      11%        10%         7,280    19,000       400        690     18:1        27:1
TOTAL                      32%       15%       10%       131,980   434,000   3,550        8,990      n.s.       n,13
Notes: j
Excluding Primary Teacher Training, Technical and Commercial Training.
According to tentative plans.
1J



ANNEX l1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
1.         Estimated Recurrent Education Expenditure by Type of Education
(1970/71)
1/
Thousands of YR-           % of total
Primary education                       15,900                      66
Lower secondary education                3,900                     16
Upper secondary education                2,100                       9
Teacher training                         1,300                       6
Other                                      800                      3
Total                         24,000                    100
2.    Estimated Recurrent Education Expenditure by Category
(Is70/71)
Thousands of YR            % of total
Personnel                               13,000                     54
Food and Fellowships                    6,500                      27
Material & maintenance                   4,500                     19
Total                        24,000                    100
1/ Rounded figures including external financing which represents 60% of the
total.
Source: Ministry of Education



AINJ1hX >
YEI,EVT idLAB REPUB`IC
Education Expenditures, GDP and Government Budg-et
1971 - 1981
Pi11lion  YR    
1970/71      l1930/d3l
Low
GDP                                                 2,h71                  3,724
Government Develooment Expenditures                     3
.Government Recurrent Expenditures                    171
as proportion of GDP                              6.92K
Government --"venues                                 97.56%           L137          694
as proportiorn of GDP                                              135/         18%
"Iecurrent .>klucation Expenditure                    22;                    115
as oroportio;n of GDP                               1%/                    3'
as oroportion of Governm3nt Recurrent
Fbxpenditures                                  l4,'           23.5%         16.5%
j  Average of ?,376 (1970) and 2,566 (197-1): GDP is computed on a civil year basis
while the fiscal year starts on July 1.
Mission estirate.
Incluii riLi extmrnal [financing.



ANNEX 6
Pro-ected Recurrent Education Expenditure
By Type of Education
1971 - 1981
1970/71              1980/81
Thousands               Thousands
of  YR        %         of  YR       %
Primary education                       15,900      66         51,900      45
Lower secondary education                3,900      16         16,300      14
Upper secondary education                2,100       9          4,200       4
Teacher Training Institute               1,300       6          9,200       3
Vocational training                        -         -            900       1
Agricultural training                      -         -            900       1
Other                                      800       3        31,000       27
TOTAL                                24,000     100       114,600      100
Including the recurrent cost of the project which represents 6% of the total.
Higher and specialized education (in country and abroad).



VOCATIONAL TRADMIG
STUDa'T 3NROLiENT AND OUTPUT BY TRADE SUBJECTS
Enrollment               Output                           Additional Subject Teaching Areas
Course Skill Areas        Sanala   Hodeida  Total  Sana'a  Hodeida  Total                          For Each Center
1. Automotive, diesel        46       48       96       A)L    24        48        The SAna'a Center would take heavy diesel
and heavy plant                                                                plant subjects and welding while the
maintenance work                                                                Hodeida Center would emphasize the marine
engineering subjects including welding and
pumps.
2. Mechanical fitting,       43       45       96       24      24       48        At the Sana'a Center, the emphasis would be
machines and fabri-                                                            put on power plant, pump, and farm machinery
cation work                                                                     repairs and the manufacture of parts while
the Hodeida Center would concentrate on marine
plant parts manufacturing and factory main-
tenance work. Farm equipment manufacture and
maintenance would be taught at both centers.
3. Electrical, electron-   48         48       96       24     2)        48        Automotive electrical wTork and AC-DC genera-
ics and automotive                                                              tion and lighting equipment would be
electrical work                                                                 emphasized at the Sanala Center while at the
Hodeida Center, these subjects would be
taught with a marine bias.
4. 'eoodworking,             45        43      96       24      24       48        The Sana'a Center would specialize in furni-
construction and                                                                ture m.anufacturin- while boat building and
furniture manufacture                                                           marine joinery would be emphasized in the
training program at the Hodeida Center.
5. Plumbing, sanitation    43          $d      96       24      24       48        Irrigation work and pipe welding would be
and irrigation work                                                             taken at both centers. *Karine plu-bing and
fitting would be addZ.tional t the Hodeida
Center.
6. Building construction  4$           $3      96       2L     24        45        The Sanala Center would e-phasize stone
and concrete work                                                               work while the Hodeida Center would soecialize
in reinforced concrete constraction and
civil works.
Totals                  20       2t,      576      14W'     14)4     2._
________ _____ __ _____ __I_______________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_.






YEMEN ARAB RkEPUBLIC                                                                   TC                                     CLASSAC
ED3UCATiON PROJECTrE H                                                                                                         IA    ASSA C
TO PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
EI    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I5                                                                                                                                          
1                                                                                                                            Imm  t                                                                               4l.Zt,
=   11110 lA,~ofl   & Iltorloy  01Igloo,.    0~t,10   -   -                 I-,-,-,-,-o-,, -,-r-,-,                              - -
-   lIm  311,  oesl11nt1m-3o4o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ool101, lll.11± ~ ~ ~           ~             ~              .......
1 1 l 1 0 / 1 1 1 1 r 1   P 0 1~~~~~~~~~~~r y   S   p e n .   S   1 0 0 . 0 1 1 1 1 <   < 1 0 1 1 1 1 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 . 1 1   0 1 0 1 0   1   0 , 1 1 , 1 t l , ,   I   -.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
II 111.01100     1,1               SNIISCPolk                                                      - 101O1-l
S~..AR        6AD     A 1o1o0t- -                                                                                                ----'- -:
u--tsT         rA 0A,S    11100   1000ln---
11.                                1     Il   1111,1ol-yy                                                       -.                          I                               -,~~~YERS  a  67,7                                              T
I  I1t~~o   10  p~~mm    &   So,,.  lO~'h~oov    -                                                                                                          _ -   -






YEIfN ARAB REPUBLIC
IDA FINANCED PROJECT COSTS BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURES
YR ('000)                             us$ ('000)
Local        Foreign        Total       Local       Foreign       Total    % of Total
1. Construction
Academic Communal Facilities    6,609          6,189        12,798       1,469        1,365       2,814        31.2
Bonrding                        3t477          2,816         6,293         773          626       1,399        15.4
Staff Housing                     684            356         1,040         152           79         231         2.5
Practice Farm                     128            170           298          28           38          66         0.7
Site Development                1,532            657         2,189         340          146         486         5.3
Professional Services             406          1,624         2,030          90          361         451         4.9
Sub-Total                   12.836         11,812        24,648       2,352        2.6615      5,h67        60.1
2.  Furniture                         482          2,727         3,209         107          606         713         7.8
3.  Equipment                         512          9,739        10,251        114         2,164      2,278         26.0
Sub-Total                      994        12,466         13,46o        221         2,770      2,991         33.8
4.  Project Administration            581          2,326         2,907        129           517         6k6         6.1
TOTAL IDA FINANCED PROJECT COST
(Excluding Contingencies)      14,411        26  604        41,o5       3,202         5,902       9,1a44      100.0
5. Contingencies                    5,888          7,132        132020      11307         1,585      2,892
TOTAL IDA FINANCED PROJECT COST
(Including Contingencies)      20.237        331796         54Q033_   J     L95       7,501     11.996
NOTE: 1 US$ = 4.5 YR



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EDUCATION PROJECT
UNIT CAPITAL COST AND USE FACTOR
_C O S T S  (I N  U S S)                                    U S E   F A C T O R S        NUMBER OF   TEACHER:
T Y P E  O  F   F A C I L I T I E S             AREA IN  \2                                            10 J ILOI t    FURNITRE ECU T  ELT LABORATORIES                                    WEEKLY v    STUDENTS
TYPE    OF   FAC  ILITIES      ABEAINM2          ~~~~~S ITE DEVEL(PMENT2-'   PUL        FUNIUECT          UPMN             TOTAL        CLASSROOMS    AND WORKSHOPS   PERIODS ~   RATIO
SECoNY SCHOL TEACIER TRAINING COLLEGE
aiadeeic & Co_un-l                               5.0  (7.2)                 70                650            110             401           1,230 (1,050)      807             72%            36           1:20
iarding                                          8.7  (8.4)                100                880            240              -            1,220 (1,2603
PRIMARY SCHOOL SEAC'dER TRAINING INSTITUTES
Academic & co_munal                              5.2  (5.8)                 60                550             90              360          1,070 (650)        822             79h            48           1,18
Boarding                                         7.5  (7.4)                 80                730            160                             970 (650)
MIULTILATERAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Academic & Communal                              4.9  (5.8)                 60                510             80              370           1,020 (650)       862,            80%            38           1:18
Boarding                                         8.1  (7.4)                 90                770            160                           1,020 (650)
VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
Acade.ic & Co_munal                             11.8  (12.7)               160              1,360            120            1,150          2,800 (2,320)      62.             75%            48           1 14
AGRICUL7URAL TRAINING CENTER
Acadeaic i. coua                                 7.8  (8.8)                 80                750            80              830           1,740 (1,400)      76'!            64%            40           1: 18
Boarding                                        7.5  (7.4)                 120                760           160               -            1,030   (650)
STAFF IDSU ING
Secondary School Techer Training College    102.0  (130)                 1,230             10,000             -                           11,230 (14,280)       -                             _
A4rieultural Training Center                    91.2  (130)              1,390              8,750             _                _           10,140 (14,280)
Median of previous Bank Group financed projects unadjusted for dollar devaluation and price escalation. 
Professional fees and contingencies are not included.
Coocorning only regular courses.  Study hours, evening classes and other extracurricular
utilization of feillities are not taken into eccount.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC -  EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCE
STTE DEVELOPMENT        BUILDING          FUBNITTURE       EQUIPMENT        PROFE3SIONAL SVCS.   PROJECT  ADMIN.               TOTAL COS  'T                 AL  CONTINGENCIES
_________ ________  LOCAL           FOREIGN    LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL FOREIGN   LOCAL             FOREIGN    LOCAL          FOREIGN   LOCAL   FOREIGN  TOTAL    IAS % OF TOTAL
I.  CONTINGENCIES (As % of Project Cost)
1.  Unforeseen                                  10        10         15       15       7.5      7.5       7.5    7.5          5          5        Nil          Nil
2.  Price Increase                            24.5       24.5        35      24.5    16.5    16.5        18.5    16           7          7         14            14
3.  Total                                     34.5       34.5         50     39.5    24.0    24.0        26.0   23,5         12         12         14            14
II.  PROJECT COST (Without Conntigecics)
Thousands of YR                          1,532        657   10,898        9,531      481   2,724   512    9,739        406        1,624       581          2,326   14,410       26.601    41,011            31.87
Tbo,,sands of us$                                                                                                                                                     3,202      5,902      9,104
7O Foreign Exchange                                   30°/O               47'!               S55O             95'!.                                          80/%                 65.61
TII.  CONTINGENClES (Ir Tho.,ands of YR)
1.  Unforeseen (000 YR)                        153         66    1,635        1,430       36      204    38        730       20          81        -               -      1,882      2,511      4,393
(000 US$)                                                                                                                                                  418        553         976
2.  Price Increase (000 YR)                    375        161    3,380        2,066        71     399    95    1,558         29         114        61             326    4,031       4,624      8,655
(000 US$)                                                                                                                                              696      1,027      1,923
3. Total Contingencies (000 YR)                528        227    5,015        3,496      107      603   133    2,288         49         195        81             326    5,913       7,135    13,048
(000 US$)                                                                                                                                      1,314      1,585      2,899
% Foreign  Exchange                                   30%                 40'%               852.           94.47,                  807'.                     80/                 54.2%
IV. TOTAL IDA FINANCED PROJECT COST
(WithT Contin- encies
thon si5genFYs                           2,060        884   15,913       13,027      588   3,327   645   12,027        455        1,819       662          2,652   20,323    33,736    54,059               24. 2%
Thou-ands of US$                                                                                                                                                     4,516       7,487    12,003
7. Foreign Exchange                                   30%                44.7%               85%'     _      94.9%                  80'/.                     80%                 62 2 .9
US$ 1.00 = 4.5 YR






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC - EDUCATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL PLIAN
(AlfOUNTS IN MILLIONS)
G'3ERNlaIEr                    IDA     _   _ __   _ _ __   UND?               ____       RG                 __ _ _ _ _    TOTAL
ITFM             SOURCE            YR        US$ V             YR       US$       7       YR        US$        7       YR        US$            -       YR            $        %
1. CIVIL WORKS        L              3.42       0.76             9.01     2.00                                                                           12.43         2.76
F                -         _             10.19     2.26                                                                           10.19          2.26
T              3.42      0.76    15.1   19.20      4.26     84.9       -        _              -              _         _         22.62          5.02     100.0
2. PROFESSIONAL       L                                          0.41     0.09                                                                            0.41         0.09
SER6VIC ES        F                                          1.62    0.36                                                                             1. 62        0. 36
T                _         _       _      2.03     0.45    100.0       -         _         .        _         _         _          2.03          0.45     100.0
3 . FURNITURE         L                                          0.48    0.11                                                                            0.48         0.11
F                                         2.73     0.60                                                                            2.73          0.60
T                _          _      _       3.21    0.71    100.0       _         _         _        _         _         _          3.21          0.71     10.0
4. EO,UIPNENT         L                                          0.53     0.12                                                                            0.53          0.12
F                                        10.12     2.25                                                                           10.12          2.25
T                _          _      _     10.65     2.37    100.0       -         _         _        _         _         _         10.65          2.37     100.0
5. TECHNICAL          L                                          0.50     0.11              3.92     0.87               0.54       0.12                   4.96          1.10
ASSISTANCE        F                                          2.00     0.44              15.72     3.50               2.06      0.46                  19.78          4.40
T                _         _       _      2.50     0.55     10.1    19.64      4.37      79.3     2.60      0.58      10.6        24.74          5.50     100.0
6. BASELINE COST      L              3.42       0.76            10.93     2.43              3.92     0.87                0.54      0.12                  18.81          4.18
F                _          -            26.66      5.91             15.72     3.50               2.06      0.46                  44.44          9.87
T              3.42      0.76      5.4   37.59      8.34     59.4   19.64      4.37      31.1     2.60      0.58       4.1         63.25        14.05     100.0
7. CONTINGENCIES      L              1.08       0.24             4.82     1.07                                                                            5.90          1.31
F                _          -             7.15      1.59                                                                            7.15         1.59
T              1.08      0.24      8.3   11.97      2.66     91.7      -         -         -                                       13.05         2.90     100.0
8. TOTAL              L              4.50       1.00    18.2   15.75      3.50     63.8      3.92     0.87      15.8    0.54       0.12       2.2         24.71         5.49     100.0
F                -          -      -      33.81     7.50     65.45   15.72     3.50      30.5     2.06      0.46       4.0         51.59        11.46     100.0
T              4.50       1.00     5.9   49.56    11.00      64.9   19.64      4.37      25.8     2.60      0.58        3.4  -    76.30         16.95      100.0






YDIEN ARAB REPUBLIC - EKUCATION Pg,3ECT
WLMDSTATION SACBIILE
1                 ~~~~~2                   3                         .                                                 6 
PlitUECT ITtMS                             I     2      3     4    _      2      3    -    - I     2I   z    31    4   -1       2     3   4           _  2      3      4 1     2         3   4   1       2     3     4
1. PROJECT UIIIT                              RRR    ____                                                                                    _     
2.CIVIL VtKS                                  _      __                 __                                        __                                     ___
- Vocational Training Centers a                             ***   A*   ***   *TT   BAS  CCC   CCC   CCC   CCC   CCC   SSg   BBS   BSt  UB
_  All Other Project Schools                           f     *    M*   **   *TT   BAS  CCC   CCC   CCC   CCC   CCC   CCC    CCC   BS    BSB BggS   gBs
3. FUN Il                                                                                                                                                                      W
-  Vocational Training Centers                                    PPP   AAP   PPA   TTm  BBA   SSM   M        I     MI0 b01  ISB    BSB   EB   BSBS                         t
-  All Other Project Schools                                      PPP   r      PPP   PAT  TEB  BAS NBI  200N   MM0   MM          1 III   gag   "Sa sas    Isa
415X-- - --- __                                                                _                 _   __                                                              lo       _                  _
4. NOW=~It
_  Vocational Training Centers                                    LPP  AAP   PPA   TmT  BMS   S         4M   MNM   WM    III   Ig    saa   BBS  BBS    a                     z
All Other Project Shools                                        PP_   PM    PPF   PAT  TIB   BAS   SMh  IQ0I   MM01  !M4    Mil    Igg   ss  gBg    Bs   a               Io
-Crash Progre. (for tbs 9 
-eisting schools)                     EPA   TTB  AMBA   M4  15il  USg  Bgg   USa _     go                                           _|
5. PROFESSIONiAL SE VICES                      R   RBR   ASS                 ..     ...
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~I
6.  TECEhICAL ASSISTANCE                      RUBS RRB  RRR-                                    -     -                                                                         '
LEGEND:
S Survey of site&                                               B  Bid evaluation and awrding             P  Preparation of preliainary  aster list.
*  Preliminary desiga for cotruction                            S  Signins of contracts                   P  Preparation of final master lists and bid docnsents
*  Pinal desigms for cotruction ad bid docuents                 C  Conatruction sxeuttiot                M2  nufaeturing
r  Invitation snd tendering of bide                             A  Reviews and approvals                  I  Delivery and installation
R Reeruitnt                                                        Professional services                  g  Gusrantee and liability



MNilIh14
YEW  ARAB  i3PUBLIC
ESTIMATD DISBURSB24ENT SCHEDULE
(US$ Thousands)
Accumulated        As , of    Undisburaed    As % of
Year    Quarter      Disbursements      Disbursements      Credit        Balance       Credit
I         21             -                  -               0.V         11,000         100.0
2              30                 30               0.3        10,97C          99.7
3            211                 241               2.2        10,759          97.8
Z        4j.           169                410               3.7         10,590          96.3
5            471                 881               8.0        10,111          92.0
6            294              1,175              10.7          9,825          89.3
7            121              1,296              11.8          9,704          88.2
3        F3             94              1,390,             12.6          9,610          87.4
9            789              2,179               19.3         8,821          80.2
IC            923               3,102             28.2          7,898          71.0
11          1,152              4,254               36.7         6,746          61.3
=4LL    12' ---        661              4,915              44.7          6pC 5          53
13            664               2,79- - 2                  -     ,2'1          47.3
14          1 ,161             6,50               63.3          4,040          36.7
i5          1, 7 26            6,6&                             2,314          21.0
>  1G   H33     c C'O               66.3         1,4t)          13.5
17            65c6           1,"7,               92.5            625           7.3
16            33h             1,511               95. 6           465           4.4
19            4Q,'4            1,'-2C '.                           LiO          0.7
6   20 7/       6J            '1,C.0             120.C             -             0.0
Notes:
-  / It is expected t'hat oroJect year I w'il ccrrespCnd t. Fiscal Ye.-.r e973/74, i.e. the
first disbtrsement of $27,COG wouli' t,ake plare !n the third ouar(er of FY 1-9'/74
(endine June 70', I?71).
The clcsinc datsp tould corresPond tc 5epenv er: 3er , 1,'07.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIL
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
PRIMARY EDUCATION                                    SECOND LEVEL EDUCATION                               HIGHER EDUCATION
LOWER ("PREPARATORY")    UPPER ("SECONDARY")
TEACHER TRAINING FOR GIRLS (1)
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING FOR BOYS
4 :5  )
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING FOR BOYS (1I
4       5        6                                   PROFESSIONAL
SECOND LEVEL
COMMERCIAL                                         TEACHER TRAINING
4                64 
ACADEMICIl)                  COLLEGE OF ARTS, SCIENCE  AND EDUCATION
PREPARATORY           MULTILATERAL(21               FACULTY OF MODERN AND ISLAMIC LAW
1                  <-                             |-l-§_ 2         l_ 3-4 5.' i '_ *4*m 2 
YOUNG FARMER TRAINING         AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
_''W,'-~s~ .6 ,,>)
VOCATIONAL TRAINING        ANIMAL HEALTH ASSISTANTS
....... COURSE          *....
- al%\gX  g<PART TIME
5^G   :Sg\\COURSE
TECHNICAL SCHOOL
0 FINAL EXAMINATIONS
AGE I        I        I        I       I        I            I        I        i        l        l
6       7        8        9       10       11           12       13       14       15       16       17           18       19       20       21
(1) Grade 5 and 6 are divided into arts and science sections
121 Includes science, technical, agricultural, commercial, office practice streams.
The Sana'a multilateral school also includes an arts stream
CONSTRUCTION, EQUIPMENT & FURNITURE
PROJECT .
INSTITUTIONS
LJ EQUIPMENT ONLY                                                                                                             World Bank 7355 IR)






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID 1971-72
GRADE                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AS %OF  FEMALE
EDUCATION           AS 1 OF     ENROLLMENT AS
ENROLLMENT
HGHRAD                                                                                                                                                ENQROLLMENT        AGE- GROUP        % OaF TOTAL
HIGHER f ) . + +- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AT EACH LEVEL
1S                                                                               I l                                 l l  l    I~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
14  680)    (s20                       0.j j5%           0.2%             2.8%
14 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14
t3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~645                                                                                                       OS               8.45
SECONDARY
12                                                                                                                     4       14                           I                                  fi
11                                                                                                                     629  34                  1   1.4°4             0.5%.             6.5 0%
10                                                                                                                     640   53                       i                I               
PREPARATORY                                                                                                                                                     6. Q               .9%6 
1280 163                                          9                 ¶
8                                                                                                                  '7921      1¶29                  4.7'%            1.45%              6.0%
7-                                                                                                              2840         186
PRIMARY
6                                                                                                            3752             460
S                                                                                                        5431                  617                       9
9581                       9853                                        12.0°            10.0%
3                                                                           17008                                                1731
2                                                    26467                                                                          2562
,   443901                                                                                                                      15871
BOYS                                                     GIRLS                                                W..rd  .-.. 7314
Note: *In addition to the primarv enrollment given above, there were 5,810 students enrolled in
non-official schools about which no grade-to-grade information was available at the tinme of
the appraisal mnission.                                                                                                                                                                                       H






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
ORGANIZATiON OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
GENERAL ADVISOR                      ERNISTER          HiGHER EDUCATION|
DIRECTORATE  |                | DIRECTORATE                        DIRECTORATE                       DIRECTORATE                        DIRECTORATE
ADMINISTRATION                      RELIGIOUS                       INSPECTION AND                     INSTRUCTION                         PLANNING
& FINANCE                        AFFAIRS                           FOLLOW-UP                                                       _               J
PERSONNEL                                                            ENGLISH                         FIRST LEVEL                       CURRICULUM
DIVISION                                                            DIVISION                          DIVISION                          DIVISION
PUCASN                               MATHEMATICS                       SECOND LEVEL                       STATISTICS
SECTION                      ~~~~~~DIVISION                     DIVISION                          DIVISION
UDEIN  &SOCIAL                                                          TECHNICAL
ACCOUNTING                                 SCIENCE                          EOUCATION                       EXAMINATIONS
SECTION                       ~~~~~~DIVISION                    DIVISION                          DIVISION
TEACHING
ARCHIVE                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RELIGION                                                 AlIDS
DIVISION                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIVISION                                              DIVISION
STORAGE                            ARABIC                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCHOOL
ARABIC                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~MAINTENANCE
DIVISION                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIVISION                                                DIVISION
World Bank - 7354
_                        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-






YEMEN  A 3AB REPUBLIC
S A UE D I A P A 3 I A                                        EDUCATION  PROJECT
EGhP,@ \t \bAUSAJDI                          ARABIA*                                           Fmo    (D.t Ir                     -         -Ic - dlricoic  hi
_ i        \                                  _i'  ]1                                               ;     r)rt  or (oC,  Leiso  (Drov Ftcroy rom-s
b  >V WE \ I 4S r _. _aL70- iQ   onrT.I;nremc                                                                 t-~         cmoadr
r,  T         car /sosv A /       l   ,     '  a                                            PROJECT  ITEMS
,      iS   (A           D     A'         J               A    Construction, Eqip-ent and Pcrrnture
1 SeondayScoolToacher Trore  C,oogo. S oe 
2          m 4.oyer                                  2 Pr 2   imaecondury  Scnoo[ Tecc  rT   lc.st rote For Boys, S-rmo
3 Primary Schodi T-acher  -r cg onrtote  For Boyr, Hoduda
4 Primary School Tooc-ir Tre o g lonttrtr  For Bcy, T>i-
5)         ) -o                               ni. |  X \   \   S Multdilteral  doper Secondary  Scro,    Sana-'
6Uppor Secondory School or A terratice, Hodeida
/ :  :   .   !  4 1    t  --\  i                7 Upper Secon-dry School or Alt-r-atice, Tai-
:  I',    0  0   X  t  3'5Ho-rf"  -_  B V cationa   Trai-ir9 C-rl-r, Sarca
to                                     I n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~9 Voca               Ira   T-a-,g  Ce-te, Hlodeida
10 Agr c.ir-ral Traning  Ceotor, lab
8Cc                                                                '4               o f>    E 3    pf ,,z,   J t    |   \  V   C  *!.B  - Equip-t
AXon   t       t      t?\   t        _   .  ' \  li   n'n  11 Primary Schoo Teacher Trairn.n.  lestrct, For Girls  an-a
I  c   ~~~~~~~~~'    <1 ~~~~~~~12 Prirary School Poacher Tra-ig   ricoFor Girl, Hnodeida
13 Primary School Teacher Training lrtitote For Gtirs, Tars
1         r,   El E   tN i tH   A   J  J  A                             14 Lc.er   S-econdry  School.
5awer   Secordary  School,  Hode,ia
16L  Ioor    ecordry I   shoa      Taic,
30                                             17 dppnr   Sococacry~~~~~~~~7  5    Syo S, ea%
1B Upper   Secondary  Scho.    Hodeida
19 Upper   Secordary  School   Taie
rYji .; id  t\zridiYri    )          6;~--  gl%3  j  *                                                                                        B11<7    HA  B-  
i1 D A                                                               ----0  --'>  j-)-----i'---                                             in
0 0  t 0  0    J 0~~~~~~~~., Al >'~ $D                                                                                       ,
PEOPLE'S   DEMOCRATIC   REPUBLIC   OF  YEMEN
-    -      02op0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 2   l   0   01
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  f                                          OF         A OEN
(C<                             (mc               tcO;9g>c -O                         \                                                 I
cl                      '""                         ,                                            0        20   40
A    ,'C/F                                                                    O          A E                                 20         410          610      w
Vra/                                                                                                                               MrE S
/               F T. A  I                                                                                                                                                  ID
/~                                                                                                                                        i,i,,i.iO.i.r.uc 04.Or 



