CIRCULAT1NG -COPy
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK              e
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1263a-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
June 26, 1973
This report was prepared for official use onty by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited wiothout Bank cy oup authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                             Yemen Rial
US$ 1                                    YR 4.50
YR 1                                     US$ 0.22
YR 1,000                                 US$ 222
YR 1,000,000                             US$ 222,200
Fiscal year              July 1 to June 30
21 No par value has been communicated to the IMF.
However, the Yemen Arab Republic agreed in 1972
to a provisional rate of US$1 = YR5. Most free
market transactions took place at that rate
during 1972. Following the devaluation of the
dollar in February 1973 the rial appreciated
to a rate of $1.00 = Yi.50.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic for the equivalent of US$11.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance an education project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A memorandum entitled "Current Economic Position of the Yemen Arab
Republic" (EMA-50a) dated April 20, 1972, which updated the economic report
issued on October 16, 1970, was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 15, 1972 (R72-109). More recent information on the economy was obtained
by an economic mission to Yemen in the autumn of 1972 which will shortly com-
plete its report. The substance of the mission's findings has been reported
recently in the President's Report and Recommendation on the Tihama Develop-
ment Project (IDA/R73-35) dated April 16, 1973 which was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 19, 1973. As there have been no major develop-
ments since that time, the section on the economy has been reproduced in
Annex I. Country data are also provided in Annex I.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YEMEN
3.        To date the Bank Group has had three operations in Yemen.   Annex II
contains a summary statement as of May 31, 1973. In 1971, the Bank made a
grant of $200,000 to help finance jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development a team of planning and economic advisors. The team,
currently composed of five members, has helped create the Central Planning
Organization (CPO) which is responsible for devising and carrying out Yemen's
economic development plans. The CPO is perhaps the most active and best-
organized and staffed organization in Government. It is drafting a national
development strategy and mid-term investment program, helping channel external
aid, advising on general economic policy and identifying and preparing invest-
ment projects. The team of advisors has been very successful and the Govern-
ment has requested an extension of its services, which under the present
arrangement would end later this year. Staff contacts having ascertained
that no UND? or similar financing seems available for such an extension, and
in view of its success, I intend to submit to the Executive Directors in the
near future a proposal for a further grant to finance, again jointly with
the Kuwait Fund, the team for an additional period of two years.



- 2 -
4.        In June 1972, IDA extended a credit of $7.7 million equivalent for
a Highway Project. The project is designed to create a national Highway Au-
thority with capacity to effectively plan, design, maintain and administer
the highway network. It provides equipment for road maintenance and feeder
road construction, and also finances feasibility studies and detailed designs
of important highway links.   Although this was the Yemen's first experience
with a Bank Group landing operation, the Government has carried out its re-
sponsibilities quickly and efflciently. Necessary legislation was passed,
the Highway Authority was created and staffed, and three groups of consul-
tants were selected for various project activities.
5.        On May 1, 1973, the Association made a $10.9 million credit for
the Tihama Agricultural Development Project which will help finance: the
development of surface and groundwater irrigation works at Wadi Zabid in
the Tihama (coastal) region, the introduction of a Tihama Development Au-
thority and institutions for agricultural credit, extension and research,
training and a major soils and groundwater survey of the Wadi Mawr region.
The Kuwait Fund is financing $6 million of project costs.
6.        Future Bank Group activity will focus on three objectives:    (a)
enlarging Yemen's absorptive capacity through assistance to the education
sector, the creation of essential institutions and initiation of resource
surveys and other basic information studies, (b) continuing to help devise
an appropriate development strategy and investment program including special
project identification and preparation work and (c)i lending with an emphasis
on agriculture, the development of human skills and essential infrastructure.
This strategy recognizes that Yemen is among the poorest of the 25 least-
developed countries, requiring special assistance and justifying IDA financing
of a high percentage of project costs, including local costs (see para.20).
7.        Apart from the proposed credit, two projects are expected to be
submitted to the Executive Directors before the end of 1973 - a small in-
dustrial estate project which was appraised in March/April and the Sana'a
water supply project which is currently being appraised together with staff
from the Abu Dhabi Fund which is likely to participate in the financing.
PART 1II - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
8.        Secular education in Yemen is less than a decade old.   Before the
Republican Revolution in 1962, the education system consisted essentially
of Koranic schools whose exclusive purpose was religious and literacy train-
ing. There were no secondary or higher education facilities and no skill
training of any kind. Although the Republican Government recognized the
need to modernize and expand the education system, the civil war (1962-1970)
drained its meagre resources and diverted its attentiorL from economic and
social development requirements.



-3.-
9.        With the end of the civil war in 1970, the Government began to
focus on the need for modernizing and expanding the education system. The
demand for schooling outstripped the Government's capacity to provide new
schools, facilities and teachers. Nevertheless enrollments at all levels
increased by an average of 32% annually from 1969 to 1972. Bilateral assis-
tance from the People's Republic of China, Egypt, Iraq, Kuwait and USSR be-
gan to be provided on a major scale for school construction and for the pro-
vision of expatriate teachers at the secondary level and above. Between
1969 and 1972 bilateral aid financed the construction of 87 primary schools,
four primary teacher training institutes, four upper secondary schools, 12
lower secondary schools and one technical school. Some national curriculum
development was also initiated.
10.       Despite the rapid growth over the past three years, Yemen's educa-
tion system is among the least developed in the world. In a country of six
million people, there were only about 7300 students in lower and upper sec-
ondary schools, less than 1 percent of the relevant age groups in 1972. Only
12 percent of all children age 6-11 were attending primary school, and the
drop out rate was extremely high. Only about a third of the entrants reach
the basic literacy level of grade 4, and less than 15 percent graduate at
the end of grade 6. Higher education is confined to the Faculty of Arts,
Science and Education and Faculty of Law which opened in 1970. Together
they enrolled about 260 students in 1972. Another 440 students are studying
abroad.
11.       Compounding the narrow educational base is the generally low qual-
ity of the curriculum and teaching. The sudden increase in enrollment has
outpaced the supply of qualified teachers and reduced the quality of an al-
ready weak education system. About 92 percent of the 3150 primary school
teachers in Yemen are not sufficiently qualified, most of them not having
completed primary school themselves. The shortage of teachers is also acute
at other levels. In 1972 all secondary school teachers, with the exception
of religious instructors, and all higher level teachers were expatriates.
The quality of foreign teachers is highly uneven, their supply irregular,
and the methods of instruction often extremely variable. The problems of
scheduling their assignments and the variety in their teaching techniques
and standards have hampered regular school operation and made homogeneous
national educational policies impossible.
12.       The educational system is also laboring under other handicaps af-
flicting many underdeveloped countries - inadequate buildings, almost no
instructional equipment, outmoded curricula and teaching methods, inade-
quate training for employment, and insufficient educational options. The
system provides six years of primary education followed by a three year
"preparatory" lower secondary cycle and a three year upper secondary pro-
gram. The curricula and textbooks used at the secondary level are essen-
tially imported and unadapted to Yemeni conditions. Curriculum at the
primary level has recently been revised to emphasize Arabic, mathematics,
science and community development. At the lower secondary level, students
have little choice but to specialize in arts subjects, which constitute 64



percent of the curriculum, and which fail to prepare them either for employ-
ment should they leave school or for upper secondary education where the
large majority of students enroll in scientific sections.
13.       The only specialized training facilities in Yemen are a five year
post primary technical school, four primary teacher training institutes and
one secondary teacher training institute.   There are no vocational and agri-
cultural training centers or other specialized trainiLng institutions in Yemen,
despite the predominance of the agricultural sector amd the rapid expansion of
the industrial and commercial sectors.
14.       Financing of education also continues to be a serious problem.
Most investment expenditure and about 60 percent of recurrent expenditure
for education were financed by external sources in 1970/71, essentially on
a grant basis. Total recurrent expenditures for education were less than
$5 million equivalent in 1971, representing only about 14% of total govern-
ment current expenditure and perhaps 1 percent of GDP, among the lowest levels
in the world. The major providers of capital and recurrent expenditures (in-
cluding expatriate teacher salaries) have been Abu Dhabi, Egypt, Iraq, Kuwait,
Qatar, and Saudi Arabia and, to a lesser degree,       China, Federal Republic
of Germany , and the USSR.
15.       Yet there are encouraging signs.   The Ministry of Education, itself
hampered by insufficiently trained and experienced staff (only about 20 staff
members have completed secondary school education and only ten officials are
university graduates), is aware of the problems besetting the education sys-
tem and is eager to improve the sector. Already, with the help of UNESCO
specialists, new curricula have been devised which would provide more prac-
tical instruction in primary and secondary schools and primary and secondary
teacher training institutions, and would offer more course options at second-
ary levels. The government intends, with UNDP assistance, to finance a task
force comprising about 20 specialists to advise the Ministry of Education on
planning and management, further curriculum developmerLt, teaching methods
and materials, and school building design and construction (see para 21).
16.       In addition to the strengthening of the Ministry of Education, the
most pressing needs of the education system are (i) to upgrade the quality
of school leavers at all levels, (ii) to expand the system and to initiate
new types of training to produce the numbers and kinds of trained personnel
required by the nation's economy and (iii) to train sufficient numbers of
Yemenis to function effectively as teachers and administrators at all levels.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
17.       The proposed project is designed to help meet the most immediate
needs of the educational system outlined above. It would concentrate on
improving anu expanding teacher training and secondary school education
and establish the country's first vocational and agricultural training in-
stitutions and non-formal basic education centers. A credit and project



- 5 -
summary is attached as Annex III together with a map showing the location
of the proposed project schools. A report entitled "Appraisal of an Edu-
cation Project in the Yemen Arab Republic" (149a-YAR) dated May 30, 1973,
is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
18.       The proposed project is based on the findings of a &NS ¢0 iden-
tification mission in May 1971, and of an IDA reconnaissance mission in
January 1972, and was prepared by a UNESCO mission in mid 1972. The proj-
ect was appraised in November/December 1972. Negotiations were held in
late May, 1973. The Yemen delegation was led by His Excellency Abdul Afif,
Minister of Education. Representatives of the UNDP, UNESCO and United Arab
Emirates also participated in the negotiations.
19.       The project is an integrated program of assistance by the Associa-
tion, UNDP and bilateral sources. The IDA-financed portion would consist of
(a) building and equipping thirteen new institutions, (b) equipping nine
existing institurions, and (c) provision of the principal officers of the
project administrative unit. The schools to be assisted are described in
para. 22 and Annex III. The UNDP would finance the task force to assist in
strengthening the Ministry of Education, and provide teachers and administrators
for project schools. The Federal Republic of Germany would provide staff and
possibly equipment for one vocational training center. Details of the task
force and the technical assistance to project institutions are described in
paras. 21 and 23 below.
20.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about $17.0 million,
with a foreign exchange component of about $11.5 million. The IDA credit of
$11.0 million would help finance the construction of the new schools, provi-
sion of equipment and furniture and the cost of the five-man project unit.
It would cover 65 percent of total project costs, and finance about 65 per-
cent of the estimated foreign exchange component plus $3.6 million equivalent
of local costs. The major technical assistance elements would be financed by
the UNDP ($4.4 million) and Federal Republic of Germany ($0.6 million). The
balance of $1.0 million would be met by the Yemen Government. The United Arab
Emirates has agreed to provide a grant of up to $8 million to help cover a
portion of the Government's contribution to the capital cost of the project,
and the expected recurrent costs of the project schools for the first four
to five operating years. The proposed financing plan is set out in Annex III.
The Task Force
21.       A group of about 20 specialists, financed by the UNDP with UNESCO
as Executing Agency, will be provided under the project. This task force
will advise the Ministry of Education on (i) school building design and con-
struction, (ii) management of the Ministry of Education and the education
system as a whole, and (iii) the improvement and planned development of the
education system, to meet the nation's projected manpower needs in the most
economical manner. It will advise on curriculum development, teaching method-
ology and materials, and will prepare a comprehensive development plan for the
education system, including recommendations on the establishment of the non-
formal education centers and secondary level institutions included in the



- 6 -
IDA-financed portion of the project (see para. 23). Agreement between the
Borrower and the Association oni the UNDP project document for the task force,
including its terms of reference, is a condition of eEfectiveness of the Credit.
A timetable for the preparation of the project document was agreed with the
Government, UNDP and lUNESCO during negotiations.
Project Schools
22.       The educational facilities to be built anid equipped from the IDA
Credit are designed to meez a substantial portion of Yemen's manpower needs
in 1980. The project would provide the following fac:Llities: (a) at primary
level, three non-formal pilot schools, whose academic program would be designed
by the task force; (b) at post primary level, an agricultural training center
for extension agents, veterinary assistants and farmers and two vocational
training centers producing about 270 new skilled workers and 570 upgraded
workers annually, (c) at secondary level, three primary teacher training
institutes with about 580 graduates annually and three upper secondary level
schools with an output of about 450 students annually and (d) at post sec-
ondary level, a secondary teacher training college with 180 graduates an-
nually. The output of the project schools is not large in absolute numbers
but would still represent an 80 percent increase in upper secondary school
enrollment, a 150 percent increase in primary school teaclher output, and
produce the country's only trained agricultural and vocational workers.
23.       Because the education system is relatively underdeveloped, various
options for the expansion of the system are still avaiLlable to Yemen. At
the Association's suggestion, the Government has agreed to consider, with the
assistance of the task force, alternative ways of expanding the primary and
secondary school systeums.  Because of Yemen's extremely limited financial
resources and large training needs, there seems to be merit in developing a
non-formal education system to supple-ment formal primary education and provide
a basic education to youths of varying ages, perhaps to age eighteen. Funds
for construction. of three pilot non-formal education centers are included in
the project. Alternative methods for expanding seconclary education will also
be evaluated. The Government originally requested financing of three multi-
lateral upper secondary schiools which incltde vocational and administrative
specialization iii their later years, but has agreed to consider other possi-
bilities of meeting its skilled manpower requirements, such as concentrated
vocational training hollowing lower secondary schooliing. One upper secondary
s:hool would be constructed as part of the Sana'a education complex. Recom-
. en.atUons for the formr and academic program for the two other project schools
: thils level, as well as the three non-formal bas-ic education centers, will
be prepared by the Governmenc with the assistance of the task force. Agreement
with the Association on the plan for development of these five project schools
would be a condition of disbursericnt for these items under the Credit.
Technical Assistance to Project: _nstitutions
24.       Because of the absence of trained Yemenis above the primary
school teacher level, the project would require a massive input of expa-
triates.  The UNDP would finance 22 specialists for the teacher training



-7-
institutes and secondary schools, 7 experts for the Hodeida vocational center
and 6 experts for the agricultural center, with UNESCO, ILO and FAQ respec-
tively acting as Executing Agencies under the overall supervision of the
task force. The Federal Republic of Germany would provide seven specialists
for the Sana'a vccational school, and neighboring Arab states -- primarily
Egypt, Iraq and Syria - would provide about 84 teachers annuaiLj to the new
project institutions until qualified Yemenis are available to replace them.
A counterpart training program of about 65 overseas fellowships will also be
included, followed by a period of internship in Yemen under the supervision of
the expatriate specialists.
25.       The German Government has indicated it may be able to finance the
equipment required for the Sana'a vocational training center in addition to
the provision of specialists. This would, however, require Parliamentary
approval as part of the annual aid appropriation bill. Should this approval
be forthcoming, the amount of the Credit provided for such equipment, amount-
ing to about US$230,000, would be available as an additional contingency
provision.
26.       The recruitment of foreign staff under the UNDP/UNESCO program may
be difficult because of the large number of specialists required and the living
conditions of Yemen, which may affect the standards expected of the specialists,
if the desired numbers are to be provided as scheduled. Similarly, it may
be difficult to find adequate numbers of Yemeni counterparts for training
under the project. However, the calculated risk of a shortfall in the numbers
of appropriate specialists and consultants found is preferable to cutting
back the technical assistance program before it has a chance to succeed.
27.       The proposed UNDP and IDA projects are interrelated inasmuch as
the teachers would be essential for the operation of the project institu-
tions and the task force will make recommendations with regard to the con-
struction of several project schools. The task force's recommendations should
also provide the basis for further IDA assistance in subsequent education
projects. For these reasons, UNDP-financed teachers and experts would need
to be acceptable to the Association; in addition, agreement by the UiDP, UNESCO,
IDA and the Government on the project document and terms of reference for the
UNDP task force would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
Project Execution
28.       The IDA project would be carried out by a project unit in the Min-
istry of Education. The Unit would be composed of a project director, en-
gineer, quantity surveyor, procurement specialist and accountant plus short-
term education specialists for a total of 48 man months. The project unit
would be financed under the proposed credit. UNDP has agreed to pre-finance
the project unit, on a reimbursable basis, until the Credit is effective.
Such financing is not expected to exceed $100,000. The short-term specialists
would provide liaison with the UNDP task force and governmental agencies, to
assist in the preparation of equipment lists and to prepare a possible second
IDA education project.



- 8 -
Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement
29.       The schedule for implementing the project foresees the establish-
ment of the project unit about the fourth quarter of 1973 and the provision
of the organization and administration advisors early in 1974. Fellowships
for the local staff who would be working in the project institutions would
be awarded sufficiently far in advance to have trained staff available at
the time of the school opening. The construction program should be com-
pleted by the autumn of 1977.
30.       All contracts for construction and for supply of furniture and
equipment would be awarded in conformity with the Association's Guidelines
for Procurement.  Construction contracts would be sufficiently large to
attract international firms. However, the construction activity is within
the capacity of Yemen's construction industry, and it is expected that lo-
cally based firms would win all awards. Equipment and furniture items would
be grouped to the extent practicable to form sizeable bid packages and permit
bulk procurement. For the purposes of comparing foreign and local bids, manu-
facturers in Yemen would be accorded a margin of preference equal to the ex-
isting rate of customs duties or 15 percent of the c.i.f. prices, whichever
is lower.
31.       The proposed credit would be disbursed on the basis of 100 percent
of the total costs of furniture and equipment, professional services and the
salaries of the Project unit's principal officers, both expatriates and Yemeni
staff, and 85 percent of the costs of site development and construction.
PART V - LEGIAL INSTRUNENTS AND AUTHORITY
32.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab Republic    and the
Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the resolution
approv:ing the proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Owing to the difficulties involved in appointing the project unit's
princip'. officers and supporting staff, a period of 6 months has been allowed
for the J.`llfilinent of the conditions of effectiveness.  Otherwise, the draft
Agreement conforms ro the normal pattern for credits for education projects.
I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with t:ae Articles of Agreement of tne Association.



- 9 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
34.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 26, 1973






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
COUNTRY DATA - YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
POPULATION                   DENSMITY
Roughly 75,000 aq.m.                5-6 million (1971 eat.)      65-80 per sq.m.
no census
Rate of growth: 2-3%
(1960-70)
POPUIATION CHARACTERISTICS                      HEALTH
Lifei expectancy: east. 30-40 years             Population per phyaician: 20,000 eat.
Iafant mortality: about 50%                     Population per hoapital bed: 1500-2500 est,
NUTHRIT ION                                     EDUCATION
Widespread malnutrition and                      Literacy: Est. 10% of total population
protein deficiency                            School enrollment (1972): 133,000
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1972: $90
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE                 % of GDP              % of Labor Force
Agriculture                       70-                         0-90
Other sectora                     20-30                      10-20
GOVERNMET FINANCE (millions of rials)                    Prov.    Est.
FY69     FY70     PY71     FY72
Revenues                                32       73               1$l
iExpenditures                           122     129      171      234
Current Balance       1/             -70      -56      -73      -8
Development expenditures-               23
Overall Balance                      _93      17      -156     -139
Domestic bank financing                  70      1        37      -32
External financing                       23      92      119      171
MONEY AND CREDIT  (millions of rials)                                J u n e
1969'    1970     1071     1971T   1972
Money suppl;y                           190     230      292      269      374
Quasi money                              5        8       32       36       45
Credit to private sector                19       29       70       55      108
Net claims on government               118      151      110      1141     109
1/ Equivalent to foreign project ald



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ($ millions)                                            Jan.-Jun
1969     1970      1971     1972
Eports                                     4
Import                                            -66       -89      -72      -48
Invisibles and worker re,ittanoea.                 42        45       47       36
Cash and commodity grants                            5       18        6       13
Current Balance                                 -11      -20       -13
Non-monetary capital./                            7        rj        7 
Reserves, changes (-increase)                    -        -10      -18      -114
Reserve Position ($ milli.cn)
Net reserves of Central Bank                       75        80       95      100 (June)
(of which: Free Reservea)                          (1)       (7)     (23)     (32)(June)
RATE OF EXCHANGE (U.S.* per rial)
Free market rate (average)                         22        18       19       20
MECHANDISE EXPORTS (Recorded)2/          A    g    9
U-N       1n.
Coffee                                   1.   -
Qat                                      0.6           16
Cotton                                   o.6           16
Hides and skins                          0.5           14
Other                                    0.6           16
Total    3             100
EXTERNAL DEBT, June 30, 1972mln.
Public debt, incl. guaranteed                          246
of which: disbursed                                 (147)
Debt service due 1972/73                               10-20V
Debt service ratio, est. 1972/73                       12-25 v
EATE OF EXCHANGE-/                              IBRD/IDA LENDING
(as at May 31,1973)               SIn
Free Market Rates                            7US$mln
1972 Average   March 1973                                      IBRD    IDA
1 R-;9          $ 0.20          $0.22         Outstanding and disbursed       -    0.2
YR 5-.         YR4.5           Undisbursed                    -    18.4
Outstanding incl. undisbursed   -   18.6
1,, i2Jlcudes private and public capital, SDR's, and errors and omissions.
./ Only about 50-60% of estimated total merchandise exports are recorded.
T, T-is estimate was provided to the IBRD in September/October 1972, at which time
uita on the debt and debt service burden were still being assembled from various
cRencaes.
LI The debt service ratio is estimated on the basis of debt service as % of
,r ro.'ected 1972 exports (including unrecorded) and net invisibles and remittances.
!Jo rar value has been communicated to the IMF. However, Yemen agreed in 1972 to
provisional rate of US$1 = YR5.
May 31. 1973



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
THE ECONOMY
1.        The present Yemen Arab Republic was established in 1962, replacing
the ruling Imanir and his oligarchy, umder whom Yemen had remained almost com-
pletely isolated from the rest of the world. Lack of internal transport and
communications facilities has contributed to the continuing isolation of
many parts of the country. Since 1962, Yemen has witnessed a long civil war
(1962-1970), frontier clashes with the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen,
drought, subsequent famine in certain areas (1969 and 1970), and disease
including a cholera outbreak in 1971.
2.        Political integration has been hindered by tribal and religious
differences. The end of the civil war left the tribal sheikhs in a stronger
and more independent position than before. This fragmentation of power,
combined with the absence of institutions and of trained cadres at the central
government level, has greatly hindered the government's ability to formulate
national economic objectives, tax adequately and otherwise control the
economy, and carry out a program of economic development.
3.        Despite these problems, however, coalition governments have made
considerable progress since early 1970 in introducing basic elements of
modern government. Within the past eighteen months, Yemen has elected its
first national legislature, established a central bank, organized a national
planning and statistical agency and a public works authority, and improved
its revenue performance. Four commercial banks began operation in 1971-72
(bringing the total number to five), and the government has been successful
in soliciting increased external assistance from Eastern, Western, and
Arab sources. In November 1972, an agreement was signed at Tripoli between
the governments of the two Yemens; this agreement aims at a merger between
the states and improved the prospect that greater attention can now be given
to the task of economic development.
4.        Yemen is among the least developed countries in the world. Over
90 percent of its estimated 5-6 million people are engaged in agriculture
and only a few hundred thousands live in cities and large towns. The small
village economy predominates, as there are few nomadic tribes. Considerable
progress has been made in building roads and other transport facilities over
the last decade, and development of the primary highways should be completed
by 1974, with completion of the Sana'a-Saada road to northern Yemen and the
paving of the Sana'a-Taiz highway (see Map). However, Yemen remains extremely
underdeveloped in virtually every other form of economic and social infra-
structure, and in most forms of institutional and administrative capacity.
Domestic savings are extremely small, but due to the actual and potential
availability of foreign aid, imported capital goods are not the most crucial
bottleneck. The most basic constraints to development and the country's
ability to absorb aid are the lack of skills (technical, entrepreneurial and
managerial), the lack of institutions, and the meager quantity and quality of
the country's resource base and the information concerning it. Yemen will



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
need to expand its abosrptive capacity through resource surveys and pre-
investment studies, enlarged training programs, and incentive schemes to
attract skilled Yemenis now working abroad to return.
5.        Land and water are both very scarce in Yemen, yet agriculture
accounts for perhaps three-fourths of GDE'.  Farmers are industrious, and
land and water resources are carefully husbanded, with well-planned terrac-
ing and irrigation work. However, the agricultural sector remains basically
subsistence-oriented and is constrained by a feudal system of land tenure.
Cereals for local consumption are the principal crops, while very modest
amounts of cash crops are exported; rock salt comprises the only significant
non-agricultural export. These exports have lcng been stagnant, and there
seems little prospect for muchi growth in the near future. Food imports, on
the other hand, have mounted rapidly in recent years. Improved rainfall in
the past two years has narrowed the food gap in the countryside, but the
trade deficit in food products has continued to mount.   Given these condi-
tions, the agricultural sector warrants highest priority in Yemen's develop-
ment program.
6.        Yemen's known non-agricultural resources are very limited.   Fishing
and possibly forestry may have some potential for growth, but are currently
of little economic importance. Unlike most countries of the Arabian penin-
sula, Yemen has no known oil resources. No basic resource survey has been
made, and except for rock salt, no minerals are known to exist in commercial
quantities. Until about five years ago, industry was virtually non-existent.
Since then, a number of factories have been built inr the main cities, mostly
with foreign aid. These include tobacco, textile, aluminuim, soft drink,
cement and other building Taaterials factories. Nevertheless, industry
employs probably still less than one percent of the labor force.   However,
there appear to be good prospects for rindustrial expansion in other agricul-
tural processing and in l'ght maanufacturing for construction and domestic
consumption.
7.       lTourism is another sector with a very snall base, but with some
potential for growth. Before the 1962 Revolution, tourists were discouraged
from enter-ing the country. Later the civil war and lack of amenities were
serious deterrents. Tourism is now being enlcouraged and two new hotels have
recenitly beern completed.  Yemen has much to offer the tourist, inrcluding a
Lzvorable climltate in the mountains, fine scenery, unique architecture and
antftuit_es.  W-ith its new roads, airport facilities and hotels, Yemen may
< CCct tourism, especially from neighboring countr`es, to play an increasing
roie rLx tile economy in comiTng years.
8,        The overall economic situation has improved substantially since
about mid-1970, due to the end of the civil war, a substantial inflow of
capital and entrepreneurs from Southern Yemen, improved rainfall, and large
i-_jecttions of foreign aid in support of both current and capital expendi-
tures.  Production in the countryside has risen substantially in the past
two years (mainly due to better weather), and there has been a boom in con-
struction and consumption in Yemen's cities. Urbarn growth has been supported



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
by large private remittances from Yemenis working abroad (nearly $550
million in 1971), by inflows of private capital and higher public expendi-
tures. The large inflows of both public and private capital and transfers
in 1972 contributed to the accumulation of cash balances by the government
and to a stabilization of the free exchange rate of the Yemeni rial. How-
ever, the rising foreign assets and expanding credit to the private sector
contributed to continuing inflationary pressures.
9.        Yemen's recent fiscal performance has been mixed.   Current revenues
have more than doubled in the past two years, despite fundamental social and
political constraints on tax capacity. Nevertheless, the current budgetary
deficit continued to widen as current expenditures increased even more. Budg-
etary support (largely from Saudi Arabia) was equivalent to almost half of
total current expenditures in FY72, while development expenditures continued
to be financed almost entirely from foreign aid. Foreign project and commodity
aid in FY1970 and FY1971 averaged about $16 million annually. Yemen's budg-
etary and balance of payment's position is extremely vulnerable, and greater
control needs to be exercised on the growth of current expenditures. The
growing prosperity of the urban sector will remain precariously dependent on
remittances and capital inflows from abroad until development efforts begin
to improve productivity and create an economic surplus in the rural sector.
10.       Thus far, Yemen's lack of clearly defined national economic objec-
tives and priorities has resulted in a piecemeal and uncoordinated development
effort. To remedy this situation, the Bank, together with the Kuwait Fund,
has sponsored an advisory team in the Central Planning Organization (CPO).
The CPO will shortly present its recommended medium-term development strategy
and investment program to the Council of Ministers, after which an official
program is expected to be adopted.
11.       Ye-men's reliance on foreign aid over the past decade has resulted
in the growth of a large foreign debt. Total public external debt as of
mid-1972 was estimated at about $147 million (disbursed only), with about
another $100 million undisbursed. The major creditors are the USSR, People's
Republic of China, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the Federal Republic of Germany.
Yemen has not been able to service most of its debts, and lenders have not been
pressing for repayments. Some debts have been rescheduled, and the Yemeni au-
thorities are currently engaged in bilateral negotiations to postpone other
repayment obligations. With a few exceptions, lenders have recently been
making their assistance available on grant or very soft terms, recognizing
that Yemen's capacity to service debt will remain limited for many years.
12.       The project aid program of the Federal Republic of Germany is cur-
rently the largest. The aid role of the Soviet Union has been cut back in
recent years; People's Republic of China is continuing with a large road
building project. Substantial aid has been provided by Kuwait, Saudi Arabia,
Iraq and Libya, and in recent months the Union of Arab Emirates has also made
aid commitments to Yemen. British and American aid will soon become more sig-
nificant. To date Yemen has been very receptive to foreign assistance. As
aid programs have increased, however, the need has grown for better aid coor-
dination and direction.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN
THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(As at May 31, 1973)
US$ Million
Credit                                             Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year        Borrower      Purpose       IDA            Undisbursed
315       1972   Yemen Arab Repub-
lic              Highways        7.7                 7.5
376       1973   Yemen Arab Repub-
lic              Tihama Agri-
culture      10.9                10.9 1/
TOTAL                            18.6                18.4
Of which has been repaid          -                   -
Total now held by IDA            18.6
Total undisbursed                                    18.4
B.   OTHER BANK GROUP ACTIVITIES
A Bank grant of $200,000 equivalent was approved by the Executive
Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. This
team of five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization,
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general
economic policies, indentifying and preparing investment projects, and co-
ordinating external aid. The CPO is perhaps the most dynamic and active
public sector organization in Yemen.
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 2/
Credit 315 - Highways; US$7.7 million Credit of June 26, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The Yemen Government moved very quickly to establish a Highway
Authority, appoint its director and select three different sets
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encoutered, and the action being taken to re-
medy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Fage 2 of 2 pages
of project consultants (for technical assistance, feasibility
studies and supervision of construction). Although the
Development Credit was made effective only on January 15, 1973,
this was due essentially to delays in the mails. The project is
proceeding satisfactorily and the technical assistance team began
work in Yemen on January 20, 1973.
Credit 376 - Tihana Agriculture; US$10.9 million credit of
May 7 1973; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Project consultants for supervision of construction of irrigation
works at Wadi Zabid and for preparation of the feasibility study
at Wadi Mawr have been engaged and are being financed by the
Kuwait Fund on a reimbursable basis prior to the effectiveness
of the Credit. Topographic mapping of Wadi Mawr has also been
initiated by the United States Geological Survey for the project.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC - EDUCATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Yemen Arab Republic
Amount:        US$11.0 million equivalent
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description: The proposed project would modernize and enlarge the educa-
tional system through the expansion and up-grading of prim-
ary and secondary teacher training, the expansion and diver-
sification of secondary school education, the introduction
of vocational and agricultural education, and the provision
of technical assistance for planning, administration and
educational development. Specifically, the proceeds of the
IDA Credit would help finance the following:
(a) building and equipping 13 new institutions:
- one secondary school teacher training college,
- three primary teacher training institutes for boys,
- three upper secondary level schools - multilateral
or alternative vocational facilities,
- one agricultural training center,
- two vocational training centers, and
- three non-formal basic education centers;
(b) equipping 9 existing institutions:
- three lower secondary schools,
- three upper secondary schools, and
- three primary teacher training institutes for girls; and
(c) providing technical assistance:
- to administer the IDA-financed project,
- to modernize the Ministry of Education (UNDP-financed),
and
- to implement the education program including the
training of counterparts (UNDP and bilateral financed).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Estimated Cost
US$ million
Local         Foreign          Total
Construction and Equipment
Secondary Teacher Training College       0.21           0.23             0.44
Primary Teacher Training Institutes      0.80           1.16             1.96
Secondary Level Schools                  0.73           1.23             1.96
Agricultural Training Center             0.47           0.58             1.05
Vocational Centers                       0.47           1.05             1.52
Non-Formal Basic Education Centers       0.29           0.35             0.64
Sub-total                           2.97           4.60             7.57
Equipment only
Lower Secondary Schools             0.01           0.16             0.17
Upper Secondary Schools              -             0.10             0.10
Primary Teacher Training            0.01           0.16             0.17
Sub-total                      0.02           0.42            0.44
Professional Fees and
Project Administration                   0.22           0.87             1.09
Sub-total                      3.21           5.89             9.10
Contingencies                       1.31           1.59             2.90
Sub-total                      4.52           7.48           12.00
Technical Assistance                0.99           3.96             4.95
(project institution staffing
and task force)
TOTAL PROJECT COST             5.51          11.44            16.95
Financing Plan:                                      US$ million
Local         Foreign          Total
IDA Credit                          3.52           7.48            11.00
Government                          1.00             -              1.00
UNDP                                0.87           3.50             4.37
Federal Republic of Germany         0.12           0.46             0.58
TOTAL                          5.51          11.44           16.95
In addition, the United Arab Emirates will provide a grant of up to $8 million
to help the Government cover its contribution to the capital cost of the proj-
ect and to cover the local recurrent costs of the project for the first four
to five operating years. Egypt, Iraq and Syria are expected to provide teach-
ers for operation of the project schools, as part of their assistance program
to Yemen.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Estimated disbur3ements:                           US$ million
Cumulative
FY   1974   1975    1976   1977     1978  1979  Total
0.2    1.0     3.0    4.5     2.2   0.1    11.0
Procurement
Arrangements:     Contracts for construction and for supply of furniture
and equipment would be awarded in conformity with the
Association's Guidelines for Procurement. Items would
be grouped to the extent practicable to form sizable bid
packages. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local
bids, manufacturers in Yemen would be accorded a margin
of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duty
or 15 percent of c.i.f. prices, whichever is lower.
Consultants:        The project unit, consisting of an architect, engineer,
quantity surveyor, procurement specialist and accountant,
and assisted by education specialists, would be financed
out of the Credit. All other technical assistance would
be financed by the UNDP and Federal Republic of Germany.
APPRAISAL REPORT:   149a-YAR
May 30, 1973






,¢SEDA5e DoN.IŽ  0.< <  A .S                                                                                            46 S 
Sc "};; S       ,r a nc                                                                  YEMEN          ARAB REPUBLIC
r IOor/ ; S A U D I A R A B I A                            EDUCATION                      PROJECT
ar,   o    UNITED AlaDSSiRDrl'ST,-  S U I   A  A   AASieP                                                                          Rod
eGrP,J 3, \s u o |  r             A ,ES *IA                               Pro,ect sites                      Payed Prima r y Ro.cs
r* > s   .  l   ,                                    l   Nol oral CapItalUnpapd Grovel Primary Roads
o    Other cities, to-s and vil-oges    Primary Roods under C-cstr
)  5D \}_  . td >.            N.,           ,p -          7-900- Contours in meters                Other Roads
AD                 h(f1>f - ie u rAO  5 /(                                          r I Prourac ol Bovodorien          Wadis
4 /                       *,,..f                    Or g ) | { \ stnernatinal Bovodonies              d International  Airports
,51  Iari^lor,^             !   2J)    %   <)    ~t;)      <              PROJECT   ITEMS
( (S  aA  A   D tA         f            A - Construction, Equipment and FurritAre a
I Secondary School Teocher TrainIng Callege, S.oa
-        2 Primary School Teacher Tr-ining Institete For Boys San-'
3 Primary School Teacher Troining Instriute F.r Boys, Hodnida
\>   2  o )  %  (   <- ,.4 Primary School Teacher Trainig Institute For Boys, Tam
5                                              5 <  I  -fH  \  X  -0  6e  6 Multilateral Upper Secondary School, Sana'a
eca         6 ,    -\1; 'Upper Secondary School or Alternative, Hoderdo
7 Upper Secondary School en Alternotice, Taiz
8 Vocational Training Center, Sanaa
r,              t    5   2 HrJ                i,\  6                          9 Vocational Troaiing Center, Hodeoda
I! n2  l   \      >o0\\   \ p      }      2         10 Agricultural Training Center, lbb
IGu7 0f p;gdl__   XI j   %\     0°    r         aB - Equipment
1\- ----- - ~    4~               I ,5z°  %  Qs  (  11 Primary School Teacher Training Institute For GHis, Sana'a
t   l  _ > >  XJ   A j\   1, /  rJ   12Primary School Teacher Trainmg Institute For Girls, Hode.da
, IH  A  J J     A       \ I4 \  [              13 Primary School Teacher Training Institule Far Girls, Tai-
H  AJ  JA  I  jelnrir              ~~~~~~4 Lamer  Secondary School, Sana'a
to.                         SAb.kp      /5°o        gts/5/                        1 5Lower  Secondary School, Hodeida
16 Lamer  Secondary Schoo 1, loin
1 7Upe    Secondary School, Sana'a
Ii   I                                          lB U per  Secandary Suhool, Hadeida
19 Upper  Secondary School, Taml.
A        A                                U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nd.fi..d B-ndasy
lit  Zaidee                                                                                 -'S~~~~~l  .-1
I'D1>                                  270 -  Z0  s,  A td                   Q
3 6-9tManWV>;~liAis                        dn \       i\ (/<\s 
0~~~~~~~
9 , ~ ~ ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~  ~   ,,        -11    -         - PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC    REPUBLIC  OP   YEMEN,              _
H- 5  \
/     t                                                                                                ;: ,, ;I<Dubab  r U
DE                        goo
3F T6 A 1M-                                                                                                               n r
-14                                                      Ldd                                                       r,A                      14-; ,p   9  , 



