CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 421 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
(j)1           BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 19, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 421 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 19, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1973, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, b,,ng hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Unit" means the project implementation unit described in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(b)   "Task Force" means the task force referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million dollars ($11,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,


﻿4
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1983, and ending April 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE Ill
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry
of Education with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, educational, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide,


﻿*                                   5
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower shall provide the funds required for the technical assistance specialists
and fellowships under Part B(2) of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of overall management and coordination
in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish within its Ministry
of Education a project implementation unit with such powers, responsibilities,
functions and staff as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall appoint to the staff of the Project Unit, upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, and on
a full-time basis: (i) a Project Unit director, acceptable to the Association, to be
the head of the Project Unit; and (ii) a quantity surveyor acceptable to the
Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the Effective Date
or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, appoint to the staff
of the Project Unit, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
and on a full-time basis, a project engineer, a procurement specialist, and an
accountant, all to be acceptable to the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall, according to a timetable to be agreed with the
Association within six months after the date of this Agreement, appoint to the
staff of the Project Unit, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
and on a full-time basis, education specialists acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish a task force to advise its
Ministry of Education on the development of its educational system and shall
submit to the Association for its approval the terms of reference and the plan
of operation of said Task Force.
(b)   The Task Force shall be composed of appropriately qualified specialists
acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall cause the Task Force to conduct
a study of the need for expanding the upper secondary school system and
the alternative means of meeting such need; (ii) shall submit to the Association
for its review, not later than nine months after the commencement of the operations
of the Task Force or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,


﻿6
the recommendations pertaining thereto; and (iii) shall determine, in agreement
with the Association, and on the basis of these recommendations, the appropriate
measures for expanding upper secondary level education.
(b)   The Borrower shall, prior to the construction of the non-formal basic
education centers referred to under Part A(l)(g) of the Project, cause the Task
Force to complete a study of the requirements of a non-formal education system
and to formulate and submit to the Association for its approval, on the basis of
said study, a plan for initiating said system.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A(1) of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ architectural consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. In carrying out the construction of the facilities included in
Part A(1) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall (i)
award the required fellowships to appropriately qualified candidates in accordance
with a plan to be prepared in consultation with the Association; (ii) continue the
payment of salaries, when applicable, to fellowship recipients during the term of
their studies; and (iii) employ specialists acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than one year before the
date of the scheduled commencement of operation of the primary teacher training
institutes referred to under Part A(1)(b) of the Project, or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Association, establish, within its Ministry of Education, a
directorate for primary education which shall be responsible for the administration
and supervision of the primary school system and the primary teacher training
institutes referred to under Parts A(1)(b) and A(2)(a) of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall, not later than one year before the date of the
scheduled commencement of operation of the vocational training centers referred
to under Part A(l)(e) of the Project, or such other date as shall be agreed with
the Association, establish, within its Ministry of Education, a directorate for
technical and vocational training which shall be responsible for the administration
and supervision of the technical education and vocational training system and the
vocational training centers referred to above.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall recruit, from among the graduates of the
Sana'a Technical School or such other institutions of comparable standard, qualified


﻿7
technicians to serve as instructors in the vocational training centers referred to
under Part A(1)(e) of the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any mraterial modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall submit to the Association for approval, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans and specifications relating to, and the list of
sites proposed for, the construction of the educational facilities included in Part
A(l) of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of tht proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire, not later than April 1, 1975, or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Association, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in the Project, and
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause each entity and institution included
in the Project to carry out its operations and manage its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, technical and educational policies and
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, furniture and
equipment of the educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately
maintained and shall cause all necessary renewals and repairs thereof to be made;
and (ii) establish appropriate administrative and financial procedures for the purpose
of such maintenance.
Section 4.04. In order to ensure that the secondary teacher training college
referred to under Part A(1)(a) of the Project shall, at all times, operate at full
capacity, the Borrower shall, not later than one year before the scheduled
commencement of operation of the said college, take appropriate measures to ensure
the availability, in the Faculty of Arts, Science and Education in Sana'a, of a
total of about six hundred places, including about two hundred places in the
third-year class for the exclusive placement of teacher trainees.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1974,
or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, take appropriate measures
to ensure that teacher trainees admitted to the Faculty of Arts, Science and
Education in Sana'a shall serve, upon graduation from said Faculty, in government
schools for a period of five years.
(b)   The Borrower shall, upon the commencement of operation of the
primary teacher training institutes listed under Part A(1)(b) of the Project, (i) grant
civil service status to teacher trainees admitted to said institutes; and (ii) take
appropriate measures to ensure that said trainees shall serve, upon graduation, in
government schools for a period of five years.


﻿9
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1977 or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Association, establish, for each of the
educational institutions referred to under Parts A(1) (e) and (f) of the Project,
an advisory board under such regulations and with such composition as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.07. In order to ensure the most appropriate design of the
agricultural training center referred to under Part A(1)(f) of the Project and its
full utilization in developing extension services, the Borrower shall prepare and
submit to the Association for its approval a plan for the expansion of its agricultural
extension services.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿10
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VH
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿11
(a)   the Project Unit has been established and adequate premises, facilities
and supporting staff therefor have been provided;
(b)   the Project Unit director and the quantity surveyor referred to in
Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement have been appointed pursuant to the provisions
thereof; and
(c)   the terms of reference and the plan of operation of the Task Force
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement have been agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 8.02. The date January 15, 197  s hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under the provisions of Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Education of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Education
Ministry of Education
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
Ministry of Education
Sana'a


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereanto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s / Yahya Geghman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ G. B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Parts A(1)(a), (b),
(d) and (e), A (2),
A(3), and B(1) of
the Project
(a)   Civil Works              2,570,000         85% of total ex-
penditures
(b)   Consultants'              930,000           100% of total ex-
and other                                   penditures
specialists'
services
(c)   Furniture and            2,000,000          100% of total ex-
equipment                                   penditures
II.  Part A(1)(c) of the
the Project
(a)   Civil Works               640,000          85% of total ex-
penditures
(b)   Consultants'               70,000           100% of total ex-
and other                                   penditures
specialists'
services
(c)   Furniture and             450,000           100% of total ex-
equipment                                   penditures
1II. Part A(1)(f) of the
Project
(a)   Civil Works               610,000          85% of total ex-
penditures
(b)   Consultants' and           70,000           100% of total ex-
other specialists'                          penditures
services


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(c)   Furniture and             340,000          100% of total ex-
equipment                                  penditures
IV. Part A(1)(g) of the
Project
(a)   Civil Works               440,000          85% of total ex-
penditures
(b)  Consultants' and            20,000          100% of total ex-
other specialists'                         penditures
services
(c)   Furniture and             200,000          100% of total ex-
equipment                                  penditures
V.   Unallocated                    2,660,000
TOTAL             11,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   expenditures under Category II until the Borrower and the Association
shall have agreed on the measures for expanding upper secondary level education
pursuant to Section 3.04(a) of this Agreement;
(c)   expenditures under Category      III until the Borrower shall have
furnished, and the Association shall have approved, the plan for the expansion
of agricultural extension services pursuant to Section 4.07 of this Agreement;
(d)   expenditures under Category      IV  until the Borrower shall have
furnished, and the Association shall have approved, the plan for initiating a
non-formal education system pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04(b) of this
Agreement; and
(e)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,


﻿*                                  15
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
*        Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I(a),
11(a), III(a) or IV(a) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
(1)   The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a)   A secondary teacher training college;
(b)   Three primary teacher training institutes for boys;
(c)   Two post-lower secondary schools;
(d)   One upper secondary school;
(e)   Two vocational training centers;
(f)   An agricultural training center; and
(g)   Three non-formal basic education centers.
(2)   The provision of scientific, commercial and workshop equipment for:
(a)   Three primary teacher training institutes for girls;
(b)   Three upper secondary schools; and
(c)   Three lower secondary schools.
(3)   The provision of furniture and office equipment for the Project Unit.
Part B:
(1)   The provision of a total of about 220 man/months of technical
assistance for the Project Unit.
(2)   The provision of: (a) about 135 man/years of specialists' services for
a total of about 62 experts to staff a task force within the Ministry of Education


﻿17
and the project institutions; and (b) about 94 man/years of fellowships for about
73 Yemeni counterparts to be trained abroad to eventually replace expatriate
experts.
The specific institutions included in the Project, their location and planned
capacity, and the appropriate areas to be constructed for each institution are set
forth in Part A of the Annex to this Schedule and the details of technical assistance
under Part B hereof are described in Part B of the Annex to this Schedule, as
such Annex may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1977, and
Part B of the Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿18
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
A.   List of Educational Institutions
Estimate
Estimated Student      Additional       Area (m )
Places        Boarding Housing       New
Institution       Location    Additional   Total  Places   Units     Construction
A Secondary Teacher
Training
College (1)    Sana'a.        180       180      100       9          2,870
Primary Teacher      Sana'a        320        320     320        -         4,050
Training        Hodeida       320       320      320        -         4,050
Institutes     Taiz           320       320      320        -         4,050
for Boys (3)
Upper Secondary
School          Sana'a        540       540      180        -         3,920
Two post-lower       Hodeida       450       450      150        -         3,400
Secondary      Taiz           450       450      150        -         3,400
Schools
Vocational Train-    Sana'a        288        288      -         -         3,390
ing Centers    Hodeida        288       288       -        -          3,390
(2)
An Agricultural
Training
Center (1)      Ibb           332       332      320      16          6,420
Non-Formal Basic
Education
Centers          *            600       600       -         -          *
Primary Teacher      Sana'a          -       440       -         -           -
Training        Hodeida         -       440       -         -           -
Institutes     Taiz             -       440       -         -           -
for Girls
(3)
Upper Secondary      Sana'a          -       480       -         -           -
Schools (3)     Hodeida         -       310       -        -            -
Taiz            -        510       -        -           -
Lower Secondary      Sana'a          -       320       -         -           -
Schools (3)     Hodeida         -       480       -        -            -
Taiz            -        700       -        -           -
*    To be specified in the study carried out by the Task Force.


﻿19
B.     (i)    Project Unit (financed out of the proceeds of the Credit)
About 42 man/months of architect's services, about 39 man/months of
engineer's services, about 30 man/months of quantity surveyor's services, about
36 man/months of accountant's services, about 24 man/months of procurement
specialist's services and about 48 man/months of education specialists' services; and
(ii)   Technical Assistance financed by        the Borrower from       other sources
Number of      Number of       Number of       Number of
Institutions            Experts       Man/Years       Fellowships     Man/Years
(a)  Task Force
(Ministry of
Education)                  20*             50               9              11
(b)  Secondary Teacher
Training College             7               9               7               7
(c)  Primary Teacher
Training Institutes
for Boys                     6              13               6               6
(d)  Upper Secondary
School and Post-
lower secondary
Schools                      9              19              12              12
(e) Sanaa Vocational
Training Center              7              16              12              12
(f)  Hodeida Vocational
Training Center              7              16              12              12
(g)  Agricultural Training
Center                       6              13              15              34
Total                       62             136              73              94
*    Short-term  equipment consultancies (for a total of about 15 man/months) have been considered as
one expert post.


﻿20
The technical assistance specialists and the fellowships under (a), (b), (c),
(d), (f) and (g) above will be financed under an agreement between the Borrower
and the United Nations Development Programme and those under (e) will be
financed under an agreement between the Borrower and the Federal Republic of
Germany.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
I.    Contracts Subject to International Competitive Bidding
Subject to the provisions set forth in Paragraph 11 of this Schedule, civil
works, furniture and equipment shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Bidders shall not be required to prequalify.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the
name of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and
shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report by the Project Unit on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
by the Project Unit, and the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids
were asked.


﻿22
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract.
(e)   The Borrower shall submit to the Association for its approval any
proposed change in a contract involving a price increase of more than
20% of the contract price, or more than $50,000 equivalent, whichever
is less, together with a statement of the reasons for the proposed
change.
3.    With respect to any other contract for civil works, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
B.    Contracts for Furniture and Equipment
1.    Items shall be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement as shall be consistent
with appropriate technical and procurement practices. Insofar as practicable,
contracts for such items shall be for not less than $100,000 equivalent. Contracts
for less than $2,000 shall not be sent to the Association for concurrence or financing
from the Credit.
2.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for its
approval the following:
(a)   lists of all items required for the Project and the proposed grouping
thereof, showing the specifications and the estimated unit price of each
item and the total price of each category of items. The list shall identify
only those items or categories of items costing more than $2,000
equivalent; the residual items shall be included in one miscellaneous
category for each educational institution, the amount of which shall
not exceed $50,000 equivalent or such larger amount as may be agreed
with the Association, for each such institution. Identified items shall
be indexed, coded and numbered for identification with the
educational institution, courses and space for which they are required.


﻿23
Amendments to such list shall also be sent to the Association for
approval; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
a description of the method to be used for inviting bids on an
international basis, including the proposed advertising procedures.
Bidding documents shall specify that bidders must bid for at least 85%,
or such other percentage as shall be agreed with the Association, of
each package, and that the Borrower may make awards for less than
one package if judged more economical.
3.    Procurement shall be limited to: (a) those items specified in the approved
lists mentioned in sub-paragraph B.2(a) above and identified in contract documents
by such indices, codes and number as appear in such lists; and (b) the amount
approved for each miscellaneous category mentioned in sub-paragraph B.2(a) above.
4.    The Borrower shall send to the Association, after bids have been evaluated,
a summary and analysis thereof, and obtain the Association's approval before
awarding a contract. In case of a contract to be awarded to other than the lowest
bidder, the Borrower shall send to the Association a brief justification by the Project
Unit of the proposed award.
5.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and the contract has been awarded,
the Borrower shall furnish the Association with the following:
(i)         a certificate signed by the Project Unit Director that the goods
contracted for are in accordance with the quantities and
specifications in the list approved by the Association under
paragraph B.2 above; and
(ii)       two conformed copies of the contract awarded, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract.
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the


﻿24
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the
evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For goods included in Categories I(c), II(c), III(c) and IV(c) of the table
set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to goods manufactured in the Yemen Arab Republic in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Yemen
Arab Republic, if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added in the
Yemen Arab Republic equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering goods manufactured in the Yemen
Arab Republic, other than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in
goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be
supplied locally, to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group.
The lowest evaluated bids of each group shall then be compared with
each other and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from Group
A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared
with the lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph
(b) above, after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported
offered in each Group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group C
bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A


﻿25
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for purposes of award; if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as
determined under paragraph (b) above, shall be selected for purposes
of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
II.   Contracts not Subject to International Competitive Bidding
With respect to any contract for furniture and equipment for the Project
Unit, the Borrower may procure such goods under such contracts in accordance
with the normal procurement procedures of the Borrower. The aggregate cost of
the goods to be so procured shall not exceed $20,000 equivalent. The Borrower
shall submit to the Association for its approval, prior to the execution of any
such contract, a list of the goods to be procured thereunder and shall make such
modifications in the said lists as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after the execution of any
such contract and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
of withdrawals of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of the contract.


﻿26,
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project
Unit referred to in Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement will have
such responsibilities and powers as may be necessary or incidental to the proper
execution and supervision of the Project and, in particular, the following
responsibilities and powers:
(a)   the   coordination of Parts A    and B(1) of the Project with all
government services and with private, national, bilateral and multilateral agencies
involved in the Project or in other related education programs;
(b)   arrangements for the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision
of architects and related consultants, and contractors provided for in Section 3.05
and Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(c)   arrangements for the review and approval of the reports, specifications
and other material submitted by the architects and other specialists;
(d)   the administration of agreements with such architects, specialists and
contractors;
(e)   the preparation of master lists of furniture and equipment required
for the Project, as prescribed under Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreemert;
(f)   the preparation of bidding documents, the evaluation of bids and the
awarding of contracts for civil works and the procurement of furniture and
equipment;
(g)   the periodic inspection of all construction work;
(h)   the maintenance of records, including financial records of the execution
of the Project, and the preparation of interim evaluation and quarterly progress
reports to the Association;
(i)   the preparation, with the help of the consulting architects and related
specialists, of a comprehensive implementation schedule based on the Critical Path
Method, or other satisfactory method, for setting down the planned timetable of
coordinated activities and responsibilities on which the carrying out of all aspects
of the Project will be based;


﻿27
(j)   the preparation for submission to the Association of applications for
withdrawals from   the Credit Account; and
(k)   advice and assistance, as may be required, and in close collaboration
with the Manager of the UNDP financed activities in the Project, relating to the
educational needs of the institutions included in the Project.
2.    The Project Unit will include the following principal officers, acceptable to
the Association and appointed on a full-time basis on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association:
(a)   a Project Unit Director who shall be an architect and who shall be
directly responsible to the Minister of Education. The Project Unit Director shall
have overall responsibility for the direction and supervision of the Project Unit's
work;
(b)   a Project Engineer;
(c)   a Quantity Surveyor;
(d)   a Procurement Specialist;
(e)   an Accountant; and
(f)   Education Specialists (for a total of about 48 man/months).
3.    The Project Unit will also be provided with technical, accounting, secretarial
and other staff and with the necessary office space furniture and equipment, as
may be required for the efficient and proper discharge of the Project Unit's
responsibilities.


