Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
flLE  tW
6ICK                                                     Rhpsue Ne. P-3693-YDR
IEPORT AND  ECOllDTON
OF 111
PRESIDENr OF MM
ITERNATIONAL DEVELOPINT ASSCINTION
AS ADNISTATC  OF THE SPECIAL FND
TOT 7E
EXECUTI   DIRECTS
0SA
PROPOSED SPECIAL FUND CIEDIT
IN AN AM= BQUIVALENT TO SDR 9.9 1I=LIO
TOTME
PEOILE'S DEMDCRIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
FOURTI EDUCkTION PROJECT
April 17, 1984
IITh dnemat hu a rbidui dls&mwl. ami iMM be =am by: uucPh. I  ly lah pu IfuInmof
tb UduP'I dhu. ft eussmb amy use uibuiwl be diudmi widlwo Wedi Bnk ahdl



CURRENCY EQUIVALNTS
Calendar 1983           March 1984
Currency Unit         Yeamei Dinars (OM)            YD
US$i             -       YD 0.345                  0.345
YDL              -       US$2.90                   2.90
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
SCUDOL YEAR
September - June
GLOSSARY
HAAR      -       Miisttry of Agriculture and Agrian Reform
KOE       -       Ministry of Education
NOLCS     -       Ministry of Labor and Civil Service
cREGT     -       National Center for Rural Extension Training
Pm        -       Project Implementation Unit
TTC       -       Trade Training Center



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Amount:            SDRs 9.9 million (about US$10.4 million equivalent) from
the Special Fund Administered by IDA
Terms;             Standard
Project
Description:       This project would focus upon the training of vocational
instructors and rural extension agents, the training of
primary school teachers and production of school text
books, and the maintenance of school equipment and
facilities. Specifically, the project would help to:
(a) ensure an adequate supply of qualified instructors for
vocational schools and trade training centers by
establishing an instructor training institute; (b) provide
for the training and upgrading of rural extension personnel
by establishing a national center for rural extension
traiaing; (c) increase the supply of qualified primary
school teachers by establishing a primary teacher training
institute; (d) expand textbook printing production capacity
to meet the country's needs for school books by upgrading
the Ministry of Education textbook production center;
(e) consolidate and strengthen a regional program of school
maintenance by providing mobile maintenance units; and
(f) ensure that training programs address manpower needs by
establishing suitable criteria for manpower planning.
Benefits
and Risks:         The proposed project would contribute to improving the
quality of human resources development in PDRY, the level
of which remains one of the major constraints to PDRY's
overall economic development. It would improve and
strengthen primary education, manpower development, and
rural extension services. The project faces no major
risks, although there may be some difficulties in obtainirng
qualified rural extension consultants who would be
agreeable to living in the remote areas of PDRY. However,
sources of supply have been identified by the Project
Implementation Unit.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contenis may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs. I/                                   Local        Foreign     Total
-----   USS Million----
Vocational Instructor Training Institute               0.44         1.67        2.11
National Center for Extension Training                 0.38         1.14        1.52
Primary Teacher Training Institute                     2.14        2.29         4.43
Textbook Printing and Production Unit                  0.32         2.08        2.40
School Maintenance Vehicles                            0.04         0.40        0.44
Preparation of Future Projects                         0.00         0.20        0.20
Base Cost                                          3.32        7.78        11.10
Physical Contingencies                             0.29        0.67         0.96
Price Contingencies                                0.58        1.36         1.94
Total Project Cost                            4.19        9.81        14.00
Financing Plan:                                     Local      Forelan    Total
Government                                             3.60         0.00        3.60
IDA Special Fund                                       0.59         9.81       10.40
Total                                         4.19        9.81        14.00
Estimated IDA Special                                mUS$   illion…-
Fund Disbursements:               FY    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Annual                     0.7    2.2    2.8    2.2    1.8    0.7
Cumulative                 0.7    2.9    5.7    7.9    9.7   10.4
Estimated Completion Date: June 30, 1989
Rate of Return:              Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:      Nb. 4652-YDR of April 4, 1984
1/ Excluding duties and taxes from vhich the project would be exempt.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AS ADMINISTRATOR OF THE SPECIAL FUND
REPOkr AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SPECIAL FUND
CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A FOUKIH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the followLng report and recommendation on a proposed
SpecLal Fund credit of SDR 9.9 million (about US$10.4 million equivalent) on
standard terms to the People's Democratic RepubLic of Yemen (PDRY) to help
tLnance a Fourth Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen:
Economic Memorandum" (3570-YDR) dated January 29, 1982, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 10, 1982. A Mid-Plan Review mission returned
trom PDRY in June 1983 and its findings are incorporated into this part of the
report. The report of this mission is being discussed with the Government,
and is expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. A
country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Situated in the southwestern corner of the Arabian Peninsula, the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), with a population of 1.9 million
(mid-1981); covers an area of 333,000 square km and extends nearly 1,400 km
along the Gulf of Aden. It is a semi-arid land of rugged configuration with
sparse vegetation, low rainfall and few natural resources. Agricultural
production is limited to some 12 scattered wadis comprising the total
cultivable area of about 200,000 ha or less than 1 percent of the country's
land surface. The one major resource is fish, which is not yet fully
expLoited. The majority of the population lives on the narrow coastal plain
along the Gulf. There is also a concentration of population in the Wadi
Hadramawt, a large fertile valley in the centre of the country. The rest of
the population, of which 10 percent is bedouin, live in small scattered
communities. There are also an estimated 200,000 Yemenis working outside
PDRY. Except for the oil refinery at Little Aden, there is little industrial
actLvity in the country. The country is still at a low level of development,
its institutions are relatively weak and its per capita income was $460 in
1981.
I/ Part I and Annex I of this report are substantially the same as those in
the President's Report for the Seiyun Regional Water Supply Project
(P-3bbb-YDR) which was approved by the Executive Directors on November 29,
1983.



Developnenzt UbJeCILVeS and Constraints
4.       P'riur tO Lndependence in 19b7, thie economy was mainly centered around
Aden and depended heavly on services provided by the port ot Aden and
budgeLary supporL irom thc British.  Following independence, the government
has SoUght to diversity the economy and carry economic development to all
parLs ot tihe counitry. Uver the past decade, the Government of PDRY has
consistentLy pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context
ot a planned economic system.  The principal objectives of the Government have
been:  (a) to satxsfy the basic needs of the population for food, essential
consumer goods, shelter, employment, health care and nther social services;
(b) to develop the production capacity of the economy, especially in
agriculture, fisheries, manufacturing, construction and minerals; (c) to
strengthen the infrastructure sectors, i.e., transport, pover and
telecommunLcatLons; (d) to raise education standards, emphasizing technical
and higher education; and (e) to increase exports of domestic products.
5.       In pursuing these objectives, the government relied primarily on the
large public sector .and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms were
inLtiated witlh the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969, which
brought the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (banking,
insurance, shipping, trading) under government control. Subsequent investment
in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration has given the
public sector a dominant influence over industrial activities. Two agrarian
reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally changed the land
tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings. Simultaneously, new
farm organLzations--state farms and cooperatives--were created to facilitate
the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques. Fishing and
consumer cooperatives were also established. More recently, two of the
remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden Refinery (British Petroleum)
and an international communications facility (Cable and Wireless)--were
transferred by mutual consent to tne government of PDRY.
b.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government, and
was to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives. But the
private sector has proven to be resilient and appears to have regained some
strength in recent years. At present, it is estimated to account for almost
half of the nation's gross output of goods and services (excluding government
services). Private activity can be found in almost every sector and is
strongly represented in agriculture, construction, trade and transport. The
voLume of private investment--mainly in housing--has risen sharply since the
mid-1970s, partly at the expense of public investment. Cooperation between
pubiic and private capital is encouraged in some areas, such as light
industries, and a limited number of joint ventures are now active. Foreign
private investors have been invited to participate in oil exploration and the
fishing industry. A new Investment Promotion Law has recently been
promulgated, providing incentives to private investors and encouraging foreign
investment in other sectors such as tourism and construction. The response
has been good from both Yemeni nationals returning from abroad and private
foreign investors but unfortunately the Government is not yet in a position to
offer significant assistance by way of feasibility studies or suitable
projects.



- .j -
7.       :i  Iq .. tI. .t.I   r &v I17l/s Litt- coiLntry has made sigiii canti progress in a
niazaab.- ut ;' 1  r  -i.  .eipm I  : ba%c 1foodst.ults anid other essential consumer
gAoId b wI -I   o.h.r.*., I.ir;.-Iv rh .,ug) l hgia.lr K1mpkurts.  S-ik'u l enrollment rose
stia Ily, PI II.t lit trat y pr-.grawIs were inLroducedI, and healt.I services
iplprove!d.  i L  I t  Ir.mia1pu -1 iwtwork was st rerigtIIi-iecl , new powtr St at ions bull t
and producIL iVt! capaC ites i1 agriculture, iisheries and inaiutacturing
expadtu1d..  -,ikbht; nt1L LI Lve.-tm'elits were made in mineral exploration wliile more
recently, ln"rt.! w.as Uln upsuIAe in private house construction.  Rising
LnvesLmIe!nlLs lt-.I L.) .i rapid .xpans ion ot the local construction industry.
uveral I eCou1n*1i1. eApdnsiiLon, togethier with net emigration abroad not only
el.iminiated Upell utinmploynitn1t, but created some Labor shortages.
h.       Itiese developitients were supported by substantial. aid tnflows, and by
a Large Incre.m,. ot remaltLances sent by Yenienis working abroad (see para.
19).  Exports oll the  ttiher hand displayed little dynamism ref Lecting in large
part tne IL)W  t.vt:Ls oL capacity uLiLtzation, especially in agriculture and
tisheries.  Not:wtlIlbLandinlg large iuvestments in these sectors, agricultural
and tisli produCLIU11 have stagnated in the last five to six years. However,
Since an increaSiLg amount of product can be solo Ln the free market as
OpPoseu to .MILCLal channels tsee para. 12), the output statistics may
increasingly understate the level ot production and thus the performance of
the agriculturt and tishieries sectors.
9.       'ile beconda Five-Year Plan continues to pursue the overall development
objectives outiLned above (see para. 4). The Plan was originally envisaged to
cover the 1l99-bJ period. However, following a recowmendaLion by the Council
on Arab Economic UmILty asking Arab countries to synchronize their 'ive-year
development plans, the Second Five-Year Plan commenced in 1981.  The Plan
proposes a total investment of $1.47 billion (in 1980 prices) for 1981-85, of
whLch 19 percent Is to be spent for energy, 17 percent for agriculture and
fisihing, o percent tor m.anufacLuring, 18 percent for transport and
communicationis, b percent tor education and health, 18 percent for housing and
14 percert tor water supply, trade and other. The Plan assumes that about
$1.Ub bi.Liion (72 percent) will be financed through foreign capital, of which
approximately $40b million had already been committed at the beginning of the
plan period.  mne prOduction targets are ambitious.  They call for an overall
rate of growth of lu percent per annum with sectoral growth targets of 13
percent tor industry, 9 percent for agricuLture and 16 percent for fisheries,
and 9 percent tur transport and communications.  Production growth is to be
achieveu not only tihrough new investments but also through improved
utilization 01 eXxstilig capacities.  The Plan, which is currently in its
tourth year ot LrnpLelienttation, achieved very high implementation ratios during
the tirsL Lwo years i.e., in 1981 about bU percent and in 1982 about 90
percenit ot aninuaL investment targets.  Implementation ratios were about 90
percent in inaustry, agriculture and fisheries and 8U percent in social
services. Nearly b ) percent of development expenditure was financed through
toreign sources and the rest from domestic sources.
IU.      Ln implementLng the Plan, the Government faces a number of
constraints, thie most important ones being limited financial resources,
limited nacural resources, shortages of manpower, especially in the
construction sector, mnsuLficient technical and managerial skills, and low



lev:..s ot productivity.  A harslh climate severely limits the area available
tor cultivarion, although substantial increases in agricultural output could
be achieved thtrough higher yields, and, where appropriate, by substituting
cash vrops for subsistence agriculture.  The narrow domestic market and few
known; raw materials limit the scope for industrial development. These
constraLnts are compounded by the rugged topography which creates severe
difficulties for Lnternal transportation resulting in increased domestic
transport cost.
11.      The Government has tried to ease the shortages of adequately trained
manpower with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, including
assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY. In addition,
again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education and training
program was launched ana in recent years has become increasingly technically
oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher education abroad and the
establishment of technical training institutions in PDRY, the country is now
generating an increasing flow of technically trained people who could
gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower. Shortages of unskilled
labor exist mainly in the construction sector and are being eased through the
import of foreign labor.
12.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of the
principal problems faced by the Government. In addition to shortages of
trained manpower, the reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems, including low Government procurement prices in agriculture
and fisheries, weak management, lack of spare parts, and poor maintenance.
These constraints are often compounded by excessive state control which causes
distortions and stifles initiative. No early solutions to these deep-seated
problems are in sight, although the Government has recently started to pursue
a more flexible price policy to provide incentives for farmers and fishermen.
For example, state procurement prices for most agricultural crops and fish
have been substantially increased, accompanied by measures permitting farmers
and fishermen, both as individuals and in cooperatives, to sell a large
portion of their output on the free market at prices substantially above state
procurement prices.
Recent Economic Developments
13.      The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment, which
increased trom $57 million in 1974-75 to $166 million in 1977. In 1978,
however, public investment started to decline in real terms and in 1979, it
was some 20 percent lower than in 1977. The principal reason for this decline
was a growing shortage of construction workers, many of whom preferred to work
in the private sector where much higher wages are paid. In 1982 development
expenditures increased substantially to $397 million, reflecting the special
efforts of the Government to complete ongoing projects. Current government
expenditures for education, health and more recently defense, continued to
grow through 198S2, both in nominal and real terms.
14.      During the past decade, high levels of public spending have
acceLerated the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices is estimated



- 5r
Lo i.ivt j;ruwn Qt za  aniiual aver.age rate ot about 4 percent during 1976-81,
Lijolilaild wi Li ontly 2 purcent per annum during 197U-75.  rhe major growth
st-CLors wern governtiiient services, construction and manulacturing.
,ArLcralctaraL output aud Lish productLion apparently stagnated.  To some extent
LiLe UdsappoL1lLLng pertonnance ot agriculture and lisheries was the result of
liaoi IllrgratLUll troills tLese sectors to higher paid jobs within the country
(i.e. consLructLon) ur abroad.  But it also reflects the factors referred to
aIuove ksee para. 12).
Li.      Real UIJ  is estimated to have grown by about 6 percent in 1981.
AgrLcuLtural production grew for the first time since 1975 by about 5 percent
Wiile construction grew by about 2U percent.  Industrial production, on the
other hand, declined in i981 due to technical problems, congestion in the port
ot Aden, and low capacity utilization of the oil refinery. The floods of
Marchl 1982 inflicted severe damage to the agricultural sector, causing crop
losses both for domestic consumption and exports. Similarly, industrial
output showed only a small increase compounded by the shortage of inputs. As
a result, economic growth was negative in 1982 but the situation was reversed
in 1983, WLtII the level of GDP returning to about the same as in 1981. (Firm
data tor 1983 are not yet available). Performance in 1983 was hurt by a
drought which continued into 1984.
lb.      lo sustain the massive Lncrease in public spending, the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With a low per
capita income, there were severe limitations on raising domestic resources.
The principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic funds was taxation. New
taxes have been introduced and tax collection improved. In addition, profits
of public enterprises have been rising. As a result, total public sector
income rose tram $bS million in 1974/75 to $397 million in 1982. This still
Lett a large overall deficit in the public sector amounting to $412 million in
1982.
17.      ro supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amiuzunLs of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries and Arab
natLons. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and international
organizations, including 1UA.   Gross foreign aid inflows rose from $66
million in 1974 to $131 million in 1978. In 1979 they dropped to $87 million,
due in part to the decline in public investments. However, foreign aid
inflows once again rose sharply in 1980 ($169 million) and again in 1981 ($319
q          millon).  But aid inflows for 1982 showed a decline ($263 million) and the
outcome tor 1983 appears to be a continuation of this downward trend.
lb.      The overall expansLon of economic activity, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. Total
imports rose from $190 million in 1974 to $797 million in 1982. Most of the
increase was due to rising world prices, especially those for crude oil and
toodstutfs, reducing the growth of import volume to only one-fourth of the
nomiLnal value. About 30 percent of imports represented food and beverages, 22
percent crude oil and petroLeum products, and 20 percent machinery and
equipment.



- b -
L9.      IxporLs, nmaLnly fish and cotton, have been able to cover only a minor
share ut the import bill.  In 19h2, thiey were estLmated to be about $35
iiilliuti or souie -4 percenL ut commodLty imports.  Much more important than
CUI.:ttotiLy exporLs are PJRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by labor
inoemue and private transfers.  The latter have risen rapidly since the
niL%-9Y7US, increasing from $41 million in 1974 to $448 million in 1982.  This
h3s been due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to additional
emILgration, and to new Lncentives which liberalized remittance-financed
imports, allowed the construction ol private dwellings, and offered higher
interest rates to non-resident bank depositors.  Fast growing exchange
earnings and increasitg dLsbursements from foreign aid have enabled PDRY in
recent years to cover Lts import requirements and to strengthen its foreign
reserves. Ihe latter rose from $b7 million at end-1974 to $279 million in
Uctober 1983, which accounted for a little more than 4 months of imports.
21U.     Gross official reserves increased only moderately in 1982 and
declined slightly Ln the first ten months of 1983. This probably reflects
growLig Lmports due to the floods of 1982 and the intensification of the
development eftort. The volume of imports is reported to have risen,
especially for consumer goods and fuels; in addition, import prices increased
turther. Labor Lncome and private transfers, on the other hand, have grown at
a slower pace as Lnanigration and wages tended to stabilize in the oil
exporting countries. Rising import prices intensified inflationary pressures
wLthin PORY and the inflation rate rose to about 10 percent in 1982 compared
to 4 percent in 1981. These pressures were reinforced by substantial
increases Ln wage levels, especially in the private construction sector, and
by growing domestic bank financing of public sector expenditures.
impact of Flood Damages
21.      In late March 1982, unusual floods caused extensive economic damage
in PDRY. Heavy rains fell continuously for about three days damaging arable
land, infrastructure and buildings throughout most of the country. In many
places, the rainfall exceeded 10 inches during the three-day period, and water
descended from the mountain slopes surrounding the area and swept away
vLllages, causLng substantial losses to agricultural areas and crops,
livestock, roaas and bridges and equipment. The most seriously affected areas
are in Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah Governorates. Wadis in Lahej and Abyan
Governorates were seriously affected due to erosion of the wadi banks, thus
washling away large tracts of agricultural lands and residential property.
Along the wadis, most feeder and on-farm roads have also been washed away.
Hence, much of PDRY's limited spate irrigated infrastructure is now in need of
rehablitatLon, repair and probably in need of basic redesign and
reconstruction. The Zinjibar bridge in the Abyan Governorate was totally
destroyed, as were numerous sections of the main Aden-Al Mukalla coastal road
linking the capital to other governorates, and the branch to Wadi Ahwar in
ADyan Governorate. Thus, the disaster was reputedly the largest in recent
history. Official estimates listed 500 people dead, 25,000 houses destroyed
and 5U,UUU head of livestock lost, with physical damage of between $250
million and $500 million in total cost.



- I -
. . .      I:a@-  .I.auIl.8l:t    I.D  . I'  It at IIi LL.l   C I tijliS    hi.ad   ;   tI   tii a,   I Illti.  t.  ti i tall t- It allet  St It'
t *',i   .Li Jit'    1   I- I ,,l  s.::l-.. I L :. .  I IIat     jilt!  I .t i*11a  I  t).IIn   , I l-a  IVm IIqaIrt  I:; rI ,* 1 util    I    'I:ia zsu'l
,., Liit* I       II..I,. I ,      i, I ',,   1 -_W W.N o'st  LI.Ill.tI  at bL tw.eeI  $.'f-ti il lIIlit'll.  lit  11181CL3tt
'IaI t II  [Ut.'  I .L.II I w I, :.uil':t.uitL AL L, Oantil k,coitLed  I or .l bolIt I1i lrtdc tItIt  t
*ai La  . I .*AaP.I. a I .   PURY rert-l v.il eiuierge:K-y a1Si statLa.' ol III  .h liii t11128  Ir iii
Llit  hata.' IIia IIiia.  I 'on.tLa I v FUntl and $1  iii 11 ziuio   I roni lIDA  I or a  loud recovt ry
i.111.  Iit .i.I.1 I L I 0II, 'llit, rget'iiiy :a s I. %i Ltn' o)I  Lbou L $u  i    Lo   I I    liri IN
*igt'l,At' S .IL .i :.-u1ht'X Lrita   .issi stn;:ce in LlII  tori  (it projvct  loans liave bei.,u
prvtI LI-,I.  t ll.:st'- c:ash .mlld iia-k itd grants ha IVe Ima ml y bt'ill tor relielI  purpose,
and tlit- a  :Ilgia ItIiid v a  s sunI.   Iienecd Lu L.1tp ort atti itionalr  ulod,
Lt:IisLL utILLL ioIna LL':r i L  anid  capi LaLI equipimeiiL to replace. lusses cuntiLntes  Lo
halve :t irlty I IV IViIiUpact on I'l)RY Y's bal  lice ol payment.s.  Hlence, P'DRY requires an
I8 Ie  4.iJt  I LOaW L  mI t .'r£ LO'  .ind  I inneL.C al ass i sLaL ance I rIoa L lie i nI t mrinat ionl I
CiaitilIuiIli I ty
!).        Ilue Ilzrge ini law ul  loreign  loanis since 1967 led to a rapiii
accuinulnt ion  tyl I'RY's a'xternal public debt, even thoughi part of the aid was
psr&iv tI.  IU Llii torni  tl grants.   lvoLal debt outstaniding (including
uindislhaarsed) as uL .iiul 1982 aouunted to $1,54U million, of which  $785 nillion
Was ULSIMLr:;wdl.   Ii lateral sources accounlted tur $1,117 million or 72 percent
al total c'nnnLanitmnts, wilth  the USSR providing the bulk ($714 million),
Lullowcd by tiiuiia ($1'9 milliuon),  .astern European countries ($163 million),
anl  Ata!) C1unlLtrLes t$91 miliLon).   By the end of 1982, multilateral flows
amounLted ta $4iuJ uilioiL1,  Llicludinig $Z94 million Irom Arab Funds, $12b million
trtiais IUA  I  aid $63  uitillusl  troam  Lhle Eurupean Common Market.  trhe tenns o1
al I lians are  ligilly cuOicessiotiary.   In addition, PDRY has received $511
iII l .uin l granit assisLanice during 1974-U2, mostly from Arab countries.
'4.       TIW  sotl Lenns at PDRY's external debt liave resulted in relatively
silmalL debt  t.eLVLCC obligations.   Debt service payments were $8 million in
19bl. Ilowever, PDRY's debt service obligations almost doubled in 1982 (to $15
million), equivalent. to 4.5 percent ot total foreign exchiange earnings from
exporLs Ot gotods and services, and are projected to increase further in future
ye.ors.   Ibis will exert additional pressure on its balance of payments.   In
view of. tte Iragility of the economy, the country's  low income level and low
level ot developillent, tlhe Bank's assistance to PDRY should continue to be on
IDA teris.   Fur tie same reasons, some local cost financing by IDA is
just It led.
Jv.       In  9uY9, unitr Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized mutst at the Loreigii-owned enterprises  (see para. 5).   This law
provideuo  Lot cuolIpenskt1aLL  in the torin of 20-year Government bonds bearing
interest ot Z percent.  *Iwenty-tive percent of the net annual profits of aLl
tihe nati.tuaLized comnpaniies were to be used for servicing the bonds.   In
response, sulne It thie loreigi banks whicih were nationalized  froze substantial
/  ilis amount, Is now $Lb.2 million (see para.  27).



Yemeni deposiLs whiicl Lthey had transferred abroad.  Immediately atter tile
promulgatLon ot Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of
accountants of international repute to audit the accounts of aLl the
natLonalized companies and evaLuate their assets. The audit report was
submitted to the Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached soon
after with three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were finalized
with three additional banks in 1977, with the oil companies in Late 1977,
early 1978, and in 1979, with a development finance company in mid-1978, and
with a bank in 1980. Dialogue with the one remaining claimant company, of
which IDA is aware, continues, and both parties have stated their desire to
reach a mutually acceptable settlement.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS Y
26.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base of a service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the tuain markets. This will be
continued. IDA will also continue to assist in agriculture, including the
fisheries subsector, education, water supply and sewerage, petroleum
exploration, power and health. In addition, a new sector being examined is
industry. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to be
an integral feature of IDA projects in PDRY.
27.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member of
£FC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and, after a pause of about two
years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for
this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in
1978. To date, IDA has had 23 operations in PDRY, for a total commitment of
$158.2 million.   Of this total, $39.7 million has assisted the transport
sector, $50.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector, $21.5 million the
power al.' energy sector, $15.4 million the education sector, $23.7 million the
water supply sub-sector, and $7.6 million the health sector. Pr--ect
implementation in PDRY has suffered from delays and in some caseo cost
overruns. Common causes of delay have included the time required to arrange
the required cofinancing, difficulties in recruiting and retaining foreign
advisors and in attracting foreign contractors, inexperience in project
mobilization, and in recent years, shortages of both skilled and unskilled
manpower. But projects are in almost all cases being properly implemented,
even if delayed. Disbursement performance under IDA credits in PDRY as
measured by the Bank's disbursement profiles system continues to be
satisfactory. The preparation and submission of withdrawal requests to the
Bank is also carried out expeditiously. Thus performance compares favorably
with that in other countries in the Middle East and with Bankwide experience.
1/ Part II of this report is substantially the same as that in the
President's Report for the Seiyun Regional Water Supply Project
(P-3666-YDR), which was approved by the Executive Directors on November
29, 1983.



Thii, tre-nd Ls :.spected to continue.  Lessons learned from experience with
del;as aai.L cost overruns in earlier projects are being taken into account in
*yur iuiluw-up prajects including the proposed project. Annex II contains a
suluu.iry stdAtenenit ot lDA credits as ot September 30, 1983.
28.      Future operations are in both the preparation and study stages.
et0jecr possibiLities in agriculture, fisheries, industry, transport,
petrolemia and power are under consideration. As in the recent past, the costs
-i tuture projects are expected to be substantially higher than the funds IDA
can provide to PDKY. Therefore, efforts will be contitried to encourage other
development agencies to join IDA in the financing of suitable projects. From
FY71 through December 1983, the Government and IDA have been successful in
secuLing through projects about S192.84 million of cofinancing from other aid
donors tUNDF $1 million; Kuwait Fund $36.4 million; Arab Fund $87.09 million;
Islamic Development Bank $11 million, Abu Dhabi Fund $16.75 million, OPEC Fund
$22 million, IFAD $11 million, EEC $6.4 million, FAO $0.1 million, Swiss
Reliet Su.l MilLon, WHO $0.6 million and UNICEF $0.4 million), thus helping
to increase the inflow of development aid to the country.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
29.      PDRY progressed remarkably well during the last decade toward the
goal of establishing an education infrastructure colomensurate with national
needs. The formal education system was expanded during this period by
increasing primary enrollments (grades 1-8) an average of 17 percent per
year. Combined enrollments in primary and secondarv education (grades 1-12)
increased from 94,000 in 1968/69 to more than 300,000 in 1981/82. This latter
fLgure for 1981/82 includes 61 percent (269,000) of the country's primary
school age children and 17 percent (31,000) of the secondary school age
group. Additionally, PDR't's enrollment of females (26 percent in primary and
31 percent in secondary).. is higher than in most other countries of the
region and, of the country's 10,700 teachers, about 35 percent in the primary
schools and 23 percent at the secondary level are female. University
enrollment of 3,800 students in 1981/82, though relatively small (3 percent of
the relevanr ase-group and 51 percent female), is being alloyed to expand on a
limited basLs to meet projected manpower needs. The Government has also
carried out a creditable literacy campaign, which has helped to raise the
adult literacy rate from about 7 percent in 1968/69 to about 40 percent in
l9bl/b2.
JO.      During the past planning cycle, significant changes vere made in the
nation's 'ormaL education structure and curricula to help address the
country's manpower needs. The formal education structure now includes, as an
aLternative to academic secondary school, secondary vocational and technical
education programs of two years (grades 9-10) and Eive years (grades 9-13),
respectively. Most ministries provide non-formal in-service training and
several have established their own centers for preservice skill training. The
1l This information, which is based on data collected by recent Bank
missiLons, ;nay differ from the data given in Annex I, which is based on
inlorination provided by the United Nations system.



- 10 -
Ministry of Labor and Civil Services (MOLCS), for example, has established
industrial trade training centers (TTCs) in four of the country's six regional
governorates .
31.      Despite the achievements outlined above PDRY faces a severe shortage
of skilled and in some sectors unskilled workers, exacerbated by the
emigration of workers to neighboring oil-producing countries. The number of
skilled workers living abroad is estimated to be about equal to the 410,000
currently employed in PDRY (1980 estimate). The manpower shortage is
especially critical in the skilled worker and technician categories. This
shortage is more acute in the agriculture/fisheries, industrial, and
commercial sectors--representing 69Z of the country's total employment.
Construction, with 8Z of the total employment, also suffers from a manpower
shortage in the skilled worker category. IDA estimates of labor demand and
supply by sector indicate that approximately 55,000 newly trained workers
would be required for these three sectors during 1984-93. Planned training
capacity will meet only about half of the projected need.
Sectoral Issues
32.      The more notable policy issues in educational development relate to:
(a) absence of vocational instructor training, (b) weak rural extension
training, (c) low quality of schooling, and (d) limited coordination of
manpower training programs.
33.      Vocational Instructor Training.  Increasing manpower demands and the
resulting greater emphasis on traiuing have created the need for a formally
organized instructor training program to serve the developing schools and
institutions, particularly those operating at the vocational school/trade
training center level. The Ministries of Labor and Civil Service (MOLCS) and
Education (MOE) as well as other line ministries anticipate an increasing need
for instructors in their TTCs and vocational schools. Training will be needed
for about 1,500 new vocational instructors during the next ten years.
34.      Rural Extension Training, though crucial to agricultural development,
is not presently available in the country. Increased investment and rapid
developmeat in the agriculture sector have resulted in a shortage of
appropriately trained manpower, estimated at 265 extension workers annually.
This shortage is creating a serious obstacle to achieving production targets.
Agriculture is a vital sector of the PDRY national economy, but a large
proportion of the agricultural labor force is untrained or undertrained and
not currently reached by the embryonic national extension service.
35.      A national rural extension service is being established to provide
technical assistance to agricultural workers at the local farm level. Few
qualified staff are available for the initial operational program and most of
these require in-service training. The extension service needs extension
agents and assistants plus agricultural specialists (agronomists,
horticulturists, livestock and dairy specialists, etc.) to conduct applied
research and to provide technical support to the extension agents. In
addition, technicians and skilled workers are needed to provide field services
and operational support. Though existing institutions (including the expanded
agricultural vocational school (Cr. 865-YDR) and agricultural technical
institute (Cr. 1222-YDR)) will train staff with most of the required technical
skill_, all staff will need specialized extension service training.



- 11 -
Jo.      yuality of Schooling.  Primary and general secondary schools in PDRY
are of low quaLLty because of poorly trainee teachers, lack of adequate
textbooks and instructional aids, meager classroom furniture and equipment
(under revLew through a school inventory study financed under Cr. 1222-YDR),
and poor maintenance of school facilities. Though a special effort is being
made under two IDA-assisted projects (Cr. 494-YDR and 1222-YDR) to improve
teacher qualitications through the development of both pre- and in-service
teacher training. the deficiencies continue to be serious deterrents to
quality education.
37.      The key issue in te.acher preparation both pre-service and in-service,
is how to upgrade the quality of preparation quickly in order to underpin the
curricular changes being introduced in the schools. To help upgrade
pre-service teacher training to post-secondary level by 1990, the Government
has recently introduced two-year post-secondary training for teachers of
grades 5-8. For teachers of grades 1-4, a new four-year curriculum (grades
9-12) was initiated in 1981 to increase the teachers' knowledge of subject
content and to improve the quality of teaching. Secondary school teachers
continue to be trained in a four-year degree program at the University of
Aden. The national annual demands for teachers over the next 10 years are
expected to be 360, 480 and 100 for grades 1-4, 5-8 and 9-12 respectively.
Except for primary teachers, these needs will largely be met by the capacity
of the existing facLlities. In the hinterland, however, no primary teacher
traxning exists; the more remote regions of three governorates are estimated
to require about 120 teachers of grades '-4 annually.
38.      The shortage of textbooks in PDRY is a serious constraint to the
development of quality instruction at all levels of schooling, including the
university. The MOE's textbook production unit is currently meeting only
about 25 percent of the annual demand; and the cost of producing textbooks
abroad is almost 30 percent greater than in PDRY. Furthermore, this limited
printing capacity results in many university and adult literacy textbooks
currently having to be reproduced with antiquated equipment. Current
projections for the MOE and the University of Aden indicate a need for
printing annually about 40 different textbooks, teacher guides and student
workbooks with a total production requirement of about 1.6 million copies per
year. Capacxty for printing in PDRY by 1985 is estimated to be only about 0.9
million books annually split equally between the MOE and the one
semi-autonomous press in PDRY. The shortage of textbooks is a major obstacle
to achieving quality education and meeting the country's long-range education
development goals.
39.      Proper maintenance of school facilities continues to be a weakness of
the education system in PDRY.  Because maintenance services are not readily
available in the country, the MOE needs its own mobile maintenance service.
Two mobile maintenance units were financed under the third education project
(Cr. 1222-YDR) as an initial response to this need. However, these serve only
two of the country's six governorates.
40.      Coordination of Manpower Training Programs is lacking.  The severe
shortage of trained manpower in PDRY has resulted in several ministries
establishing their own training programs. While this has not been a major



- 12 -
problem yet, there is concern that a continuation of this trend may lead to
unnecessary duplication of programs and excessive expenditure of scarce
resources. CoordinatLon is needed to monitor new training programs.
Education Finance
41.      Education expenditure, as a percentage of GNP, has remained stable
over the last five years, at about 7.62. While this was higher than in most
other countries of the EMENA region, the proportion of total government
expenditure allocated to education decreased slightly from 10.5% in 1980 to
9.7Z in 1982 (8.3X for recurrent and 1.4X for capital). This order of
magnitude is expected to concinue throughout the current planning cycle.
While PDRY clearly needs a high level of investment in education, sector
studies are in progress to review cost and finance issues.
Government Strategy for Sector Development
42.      The Government's strategy for educational development, outlined in
the current Second Five-Year Development Plan (1981-85), aims to; (a) expand
opportunities for prevocational, vocational, and technical training in the
formal school system, (b) improve the quality, efficiency, and coverage of
basic schooling, (c) restrict intakes to secondary general education programs
whilf improving the quality of schooling at this level especially through the
provision of textbooks and instructional equipment, (d) improve the quality of
university programs and place a limit on enrollments, and (e) promote the
eradication of adult illiteracy.
Past Lending for Education and Training
43.      Since 1972, IDA has pursued a dialogue with the Government, mainly
through the Ministry of Education, which has emphasized improvement of quality
in the formal education system and the provision of vocational and technical
education as a major means to upgrade manpower skills and to help alleviate
manpower shortages in PDRY. The first education project, initiated in 1974
and financed with a US$5.4 million IDA Credit (Cr. 494-YDR), extended teacher
training opportunities in two regions of the country (Aden and Hadramawt
Governorates), introduced pre-vocational education in the upper grades of the
primary cycle and vocational education curricula in two selected secondary
schools, provided training programs for semi-skilled and skilled workers, and
initiated rural development training activities in semi-nomadic and
cooperative farming areas. The Project Completion Report (March 1982) stated
that the project was executed satisfactorily; i.e., project institutions are
operating efficiently; student success rates are high; and staff-student
ratios are satisfactory. The report concludes that efforts toward meeting the
institution-building objectives were perhaps most successful in that the
capability of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was developed most
effectively; project design and implementation performance improved; and the
capacity for MOE curriculum and textbook development was greatly strengthened
through the technical assistance component. The draft PPAR dated February
1984 confirms these observations although it notes that it is premature to
comment on outcomes of the rural development training programs and the
vocational curricula in secondary schools. The second education project,



- 13-
effective in June 1977 and financed with a US$4.0 million IDA credit (Cr.
865-YDR), continued this strategy by providing for the development of three
vocationaL schools for agriculture, commerce, and industry respectively.
Though this project has experienced delays, it is now progressing
satisfactorily. A third education project, effective in October 1982 and
financed with a US$t.O million IDA credit (Cr. 1222-YDR) is assisting with the
development of a teacher training center (for both pre- and in-servi e
training) in Aden, an agricultural technician training center at Saber, and a
combined vocational-technical education center to train individuals for
skilLed and technician leveL employment in the commercial sector, and a
primary teacher trainLng institute at Seiyun. As a result of unexpected
tinancial lLmitations, the Government was unable to provide the full US$8.0
million needed and unsuccessfully sought alternative co-financing assistance
durLng the past two years. The primary teacher training institute at Seiyun
(now estimated to cost US$5.7 million), now included in the proposed fourth
education project, will be dropped from the third education project upon
effectiveness of this Special Fund Credit. The Government has closed the rest
of the financing gap from its own funds.
44.      IDA Lending for education and training in PDRY has been consistent
with the Government's education objectives and priorities. In addition to
financing improvements in general education, we have placed the major emphasis
on alleviating severe manpower shortages and improving the skills of those
workers currently engaged in the labor market. This proposed project conforms
to this lending strategy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
45.      The proposed project was prepared by the Government following an IDA
identification mission in May 1982. The project was appraised in February
1983. Negotiations were delayed until March 1984 in part due to the
unsuccessful search for cofinancing for the Seiyun Teacher Training Institute,
originally part of the Third Education Project (Cr. 1222-YDR). The Government
delegation was led by Mr. Abdul Wahed Abdulla Obad, Deputy Minister of
Education. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen, Fourth Education Project" (No. 4652-YDR) dated March 30, 1984 has been
prepared. A map of PDRY showing project locations is attached. Special
conditions in the Special Fund Credit and of the project are summarized in the
Credit and Project Summary in Annex III.
Objectives
46.      The proposed project would build upon previous IDA-financed projects
in PDRY by focusing upon the training of vocational instructors and rural
extension agents, the training of primary school teachers, the production of
school textbooks, and the maintenance of school equipment and facilities. The
project would help: (a) ensure an adequate supply of qualified instructors for
vocational schools and trade training centers of the various sectoral
ministries by establishing a vocational instructor training institute (125
places); (b) provLde for the training and upgrading of rural extension
personnel by establishing a national center for rural extension training (150
places); (c) increase the supply of qualified primary school teachers by 120



- 14 -
graduates per year by establishing a primary teacher training institute (590
places); (d) expand printing production capacity to meet the country's needs
for school books by upgrading the MOE's textbook production center (from 0.5
to 1.2 million copies per year); (e) consolidate and strengthen a regional
program of school maintenance by providing 5 mobile maintenance units; and
(f) ensure that training programs efficiently address identified manpower
needs by establishing criteria for manpower training programs.
Project Description
47.      Vocational Instructor Training Institute.  A vocational instructor
training institute, the only such institute in the country, would be
establisned in Aden in the Ministry of Labor and Civil Services' existing
trade training center (TTC). This component would provide minor
refurbishment, equipment, furniture and technical assistance for the institute.
It would serve instructor training needs of all ministries and agencies. The
institute would utilize TTC shops (for which additional equipment would be
provided) for the technical skill component of training. Classrooms and
teaching methodology laboratories would be remodeled in a suitable building.
Instructors would be trained in building construction, welding, machine shop
operation, refrigeration and air conditioning, auto mechanics, electricity,
and electronics. The equipment would serve 125 instructor trainer places plus
an additional 250 student places in the TTC. This dual use of TTC shops for
both trade training and instructor training would result in a utilization rate
of about 90 percent for buildings and equipment. The trade training program
would provide opportunities for instructor trainees to observe a range of
reaching methodologies and to practice their own skills in the shops. All
student instructors would be assigned to instructor posts by the Ministry of
Labor on completion of their training.
48.      The demand for instructor training over the next ten years is
expected to be on the order of about 1,500 persons--an average of about 150
per year. The proposed institute would have a training capacity for 125
students. About 115 places would be reserved for the one-year preservice
instructor training program. The remaining 10 spaces would be used for
in-service training courses which would serve a total of 30 instructors per
year in three cycles of 10 students each. Thus, the institute would train 145
instructors per year--about 97 percent of currently estimated need. The
Government is developing the iastructor training curriculum for the proposed
institute and would provide it to IDA for review by December 31, 1985,
following which it would put the curriculum into use (Special Fund Credit
Agreement, Section 3.04). Staffing the institute will require 8 instructor
trainers, 2 equipment and audio-visual technicians, and one institute
director. The Government would ensure that the instructor training institute
would be staffed with appropriately experienced and qualified individuals in
adequate numbers (Special Fund Credit Agreement, Section 4.03(a)). The staff
will be drawn from existing skill training and technician training institutes.
49.      National Center for Rural Extension Training.  This component would
provide construction, furniture and equipment to establish a National Center
for Rural Extension Training (NCRET)--the first institute in the country to



- 15 -
train an1 upgrdde empLovees tor the National Extension Service.  'rlxe proposed
CentLer would prvvida! specLalized, extenision-oriLented training tar extetnsion
agents and assistant agents, plus agricultural specialists, techniiicians and
skilled wvrk4±rs who provide technical support to the extension service and
tarii iauanagers.  The center would be located at an existing agricultural
training and demonstration center at Giar, about bO km. east of Aden.  It
would be ddiuinLstered by the Department of Extension and Research in the
Ministry ot Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR). The proposed NCHET would
share the classroom, administration, and instructional support facilities of
the agricultural training center and would have access to the agricultural
research center and tarms at nearby El Kod. Therefore, only limited new
construction would be required. Sufficient land is avaiLable on the site for
expanding the proposed NCRET at a later date if the need arises.
:).      Trhe MAAR estimates a demand for training approximately 2,650
extensLon workers over the next ten years--an average of about 265 per year.
The proposed NCRET would provide 100 percent of the required training
capacity. The Government wouLd develop the curriculum for the National Center
for Rural Extension Training and provide it to IDA for review by December 31,
1985, following which it would put the curriculum into use (Special Fund
Credit Agreement, Section 3.04). This would complement the Ministry's efforts
to improve the extension service which is just getting off the ground under
IDA-assisted projects (Cr. 768-YDR, Cr. 1346-YDR), and would be further
supported by the proposed Agricultural Research and Extension Project now
being prepared.
51.      The proposed center would draw its trainees from graduates of the
Nasr Agriculture College at nearby Lahej and from the Agricultural Technical
Institute (Cr. 1222-YDR) and the Agricultural Vocational School (Cr. 865-YDR),
both at nearby Saber. Graduates of the Nasr College would be selected for a
12-month training course in preparation for assignment as extension agents and
state farm managers or for a 6-month extension course for assignment as
agricultural specialists. Graduates of the technical institute would be
selected for a 9-month training course in preparation for assignment as
assistant extension agents, plant protection specialists, and farm production
managers, or for a 3-month course for assignment as farm unit leaders.
Vocationai school graduates selected for the extension service would receive
3-6 months of training for assignments as skilled workers in their respective
specalaity areas such as farm machinery operation and mechanics and general
production. The center would require a director, six instructors, an
audio-visual technician, and a machinery specialist.  Recruited from existing,
qualified staff, they would update their knowledge of rural extension through
fellowships financed by the Special Fund Credit.  The Government would ensure
that the NCRET would be staffed with appropriately experienced and qualified
indiviuuals in adequate numbers (Special Fund Credit Agreement, Section
4.03(a)).
52.      Primary Teacher Training Institute.  This proposed component would
provide 590 training places, 240 boarding places and five staff houses for the
Primary Teacher Training institute, appraised under the Third Education
Project (Cr. 1222-YDR). The Institute would be located at Seiyun, the largest
city in the Wadi Hadramawt. It would replace an existing institute at Al
MukaLla on the coast. The institute would graduate about 120 male teachers



- 16 -
annually from a four-year course (equivalent to grade 9-12) in which special
attention would be given to teaching in small schools in the remoter regions
of three governorates. Because of the unwillingness of females to teach in
such remote areas, the most urgent need is to prepare males to teach in such
co-educationial village prLmary schools. The institute would also provide 3U
places for underqualified teachers from the region who would receive a
one-year upgrading program. A staff of about 31 would be required to provide
an acceptable student-teacher ratio of 19:1. No difficulty is anticipated il
ensuring that adequately trained staff would be available.
53.      Textbook Production Unit.  This component would provide (i) equipmelnt
for increasing the capacity of a textbook production unit in the Ministry of
Education and additional warehouse capacity; (ii) a small print shop for the
University of Aden; and (iii) related technical assistance.
54.      The proposed equipment would increase the production capacity of the
textbook production unit from its present 450,000 copies to about 1.2 million
copies annually. In addition to the requirements of the MOE, the Unit would
also produce essential textbooks for the University of Aden, about 0.1 million
copies per year. This cooperative effort would eliminate the University's
need to install a costly printing press or to contract abroad. However, the
University does require a small print shop for routine publications which the
project would provide (approximately US$100,000).
55.      School Maintenance Program.  A school maintenance program,
successfully piloted in the third education project (Credit 1222-YDR), would
be expanded in this project component by the addition of five appropriately
equipped mobile maintenance units, stationed in the governorate capitals. The
maintenance crews would provide repairs and maintenance to schools in their
assLgned region (few of which have maintenance staff), thereby extending the
schools' functional life.
56.      Technical Assistance.  The proposed project includes provision for
expert/consultant services (105 man-months) and fellowship training abroad
(323 man-months) to assist in implementing the proposed project items,
i-ncluding consultants (20 man-months) to help design criteria for planning
future training activities. The Government has provided preliminary terms of
reference for project consultants and technical assistance implementation
schedules agreeable to IDA. The Government will provide at least one
qualified counterpart staff to be appointed at least two months prior to the
commencement of employment of each of the experts/consultants (Special Fund
Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
Project EvaluatLon
57.      The project training programs would be evaluated by a committee to be
established with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by
January 1, 1985. The committee would prepare and provide to IDA for its
review and comment evaluation reports on the programs included in the
project. Those for the primary teachers training institute, the vocational
instructor training institute and the NCRET would be provided to IDA beginning
two years after the first graduation of students from each institution; that
for the textbook production unit and the school maintenance program two years



- 17 -
atter completion of these items. The Government would then ensure that, where
necessary and appropriate, it would take all measures recommended by the
respective reports and agreed with IDA (Special Fund Credit Agreement, Section
4.uz).
ProjecL lmplementation
58.      The project would be implemented by existing line agencies of the
government under the general coordination of the Project Implementation Unit
(PLU) established in the KOE for implementation of the first three education
projects. The Director of Training (MOLCS) has been designated to coordinate
the HOLCS component and the Director General of Extension and Research (MAAR)
has been designated to coordinate the MAAR component. The MOE Project
ImpLementation Unit would be the channel for all communications with IDA for
the entire project, including submission of credit withdrawal requests.
Well-qualifLed staff have prepared construction designs and tender documents
for project institutions and would supervise construction. Complete tender
documents have been prepared for the main construction items (over 90% of
total cost of construction) and construction drawings for remaining items are
being prepared by the MAAR. These, together with final lists and
specifications of furniture and equipment have been reviewed by IDA. The
Government would cause the Central Board of Audit to carry out annual audits
and the PlU would forward to IDA certified copies of project accounts as well
as an annual audit report not later than nine months after the end of each
fiscal year (Special Fund Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(b)).
Project Cost and Financing
59.      The total cost of the project, exclusive of import duties and taxes
(from which the project is exempt) but including contingencies, is estimated
at US$14.0 million, with a foreign exchange cost of US$9.8 million or 70
percent of total project cost. The physical contingency allowances of 10
percent for civil works, furniture and equipment and 5 percent for technical
assistance are considered adequate. Price contingency allowances for local
costs are compounded annually at the following rates: for civil works,
furniture and equipment, and technical assistance at 7.5 percent in 1984 and 7
percent thereafter; foreign costs are compounded for civil works at 7.5
percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985 and 6 percent thereafter, for furniture and
equipment at 8 percent in 1984 and 7 percent thereafter, and technical
assistance at 7 percent and 6 percent respectively. Total contingencies are
estimated to be about 26 percent of the baseline cost. Civil works costs are
based on current contracts for similar institutions. Furniture and equipment
costs are based on current c.i.f. unit prices adjusted to include local
transportation and installation.  In line with recent experience, the estimate
ot technical assistance costs is based upon: (a) average costs per man-month
of about $10,000 for experts (consisting of fees and per diem allowances) and
about $2,600 for fellowships of which 80 percent would be foreign costs with
the remaining local costs to include in-country transport and subsistence; and
(b) average travel costs to and from office or study base abroad of about
$2,000 per individual. Baseline cost estimates have been adjusted to reflect
prices as of March 1984.



- 18 -
60.      The proposed Special Fund Credit of US$10.4 million would finance the
full foreign exchange costs and 14 percent of the local costs of the project.
The balance, amounting to about US03.6 million, would be financed by the
Government.  When fully operational in 1988, the project institutions are
estimated to require about 1 percent of their respective ministries' total
expenditures for recurrent costs. This is considered reasonable. The
Government would ensure that adequate funds are provided for these purposes
(Special Fund Credit Agreement, Section 4.03(b)). It is expected that the
project would be completed by June 30, 1989.
Procurement and Disbursements
61.      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(USS million)
Procurement Method
Project Element                    ICB        LCB      Other      Total Cost
Construction                      5.00       1.31      0.40           6.71
(4.25)     (1.11)    (0.34)         (5.70)
Equipment and Furniture          3.09        1.78      0.20           5.07
(2.77)     (0.26)    (0.17)         (3.20)
Technical Assistance and
Pre-investment studies          -           -        2.22           2.22
=-         --       (1.50)        (1.50)
Total                            (8.09       3.09       2.82         14.00
(7.02)     (1.37)    (2.01)        (10.40)
a/   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Special Fund Credit.
The main civil works contract for the primary teacher training institute
(US$5.0 million) would be awarded on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines. Other civil
works contracts (amounting to a total of about USS 1.7 million including
contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of Government procedures
satisfactory to IDA. No foreign bids are expected for these civil works
contracts because of their small size. Bid packages for furniture and
equipment estimated to cost in excess of US$50,000 (amounting to a total of
about $3.1 million including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of
ICB in accordance with the Association's Procurement Guidelines. Contracts
for equipment and furniture for the vocational instructor training institute
(US$1.5 million) would be procured under normal government procedures and



- IS -
tiuiaiced entirely by the government.  Small items or groups ot items estimated
Lo cost Less Lh3a1 US$5J,UUU each (totalling US$U.5 million) would be procured
utitier lot-al procedures wlhich are satisfactory to IDA.  In the event of local
bLds for lurnLiture ;ind equipmnent being received under 1CB, local manufacturers
would be allowed a miargin ot preterence in comparison with foreign bids, equal
to the exisLitig rate ot customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15
percent ot tLhe c.i.f. price, whicliever is lower.  Dratt tender documents for
turniture/equipment and civil works would, on completion, be forwarded to lDA
tor review anid approval; IDA approval of bid evaluations would be required
prior to the award of all zontracts for furnLture and equipment estimated to
cost thie equivalent of US$50,UOU or more and for all civil works contracts.
rechnical assistance financed by the Special Fund Credit would be obtained in
accorda,oce with IDA's Guidelines (August 1981).
b2.     The proposed credit would be disbursed on the basis of 85 percent of
expe.iditures for civil works; 100 percent oE foreign expenditures for directly
imported items and 10U percent of local expenditures Lex-factory costs) for
locally manufactured items; 85 percent of local expenditures for other locally
procured items; and 100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance. To
facilitate timely withdrawal of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit the
Borrower would open, maintain and operate a special account with the National
Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The initial
deposit would be in the amount of US dollars equivalent to SDR 0.5 million
equivalent. Retroactive financing in the amount of $10,000 to finance
consultant services would be provided under the project.
Benetits
63.     The proposed project would make a major contribution to the quality of
human resource development in PDRY, a prime constraint on PDRY:s overall
economic development. It would improve and strengthen primary education,
manpower development, and rural extension services by establishing for the
first time formal programs for training vocational instructors and rural
extension personnel. It would alleviate shortages and regional imbalance in
the supply of primary school teachers by establishing a primary teacher
training institute, and by expanding a textbook productior, unit and a school
maintenance program which will have a significant impact on the quality of
education and on the upkeep of school facilities nationwide.
Risks
64.     The project faces no major risks although there may be some
difficulties in obtaining qualified rural extension consultants who would be
agreeable to living in the remote areas of PDRY. However, the experienced PIU
f           staff who in past projects have demonstrated their capability for effective
project management, have discussed the issue with technical assistance
agencies and identified sources of supply for foreign consultants.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
b5.     The draft Special Fund Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association as Administrator of the
Special Fund is being distriouted to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. The
opening by the Government of a Special Account for a Revolving Fund for
project execution on terms and conditions satiafactory to IDA is a condition
of effectiveness.
66.     I am satisfied that the proposed Special Fund Credit would comply with
Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on October 26, 1982, of the Executive
Directors of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Special
Fund Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
AprLl 17, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-  21  -A.:-..' 
aIge.  1  I'f  5
VmIV UK  D . p.         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DArA SHEET
YCttC  P.0.R I.                       uvrvirw  soups r iWitirW irirn -ir7
MOST                      (bmlT RtCCtHT LSTUIArtr  'b
RECENT            I4IDDLP IWNCaC           KnDrbLF. Trtfa
I1__        *90    EST DOATRr-    tt. AFRICA 4 KID LAST   LAr. AMES IrA 4 rARt.
AsR  (iaTma.  IQ. CM)
IFT.AL.                             133.0        313.0       113.0
At;P I t t. Il'RAL                   91.7         13.4        12.7
.ltP MI CAPITA (061                        ..          ..       46n.0            11411.0                    3 Joa1
mie? coiuuwwzau PRE CAIPITA
iVrInL(AP  or fliAL  JiIYALw.nT)   4410.0       120*6.1     104.0 n10.4                                  3407.8
PIMATION  a  nATTL ITAmnnIsC
P.IPILArInN.HID-VVAP (TWOAtIUAD)    3209.n     1349.0       1611.0
rttAa  rnPIn.ATIONt (I nP TOTAL)     2tt.0        12.1        37.3              47.4                         .9
r*IPI'LATInN PosItnCTIONS
P"PUI.ATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              3.3
STATIIINART POPLATION (MILL)                                11.6
YCAII ITATIOMNAR  POP. RACHKO                              2115
Pore LATIng DCNSITYf
wrm so). Km.                        i.e       1i.2           5.7              36.0                       15.6
PKR 19. KN. ACRI. LANE             13.2          4.5        20.6             449.0                       93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTtntU (2)
n- 4 YRS                          44.1         43.4        4t9               43.9                       40.1
3S-r4 YRS                          52.4        51.9         51.5              32.tt                      S5.
hi AD ABOVE                         2.9         2.6          2.6               3.3                        4.1
PnrPLATION fWftTH RATE (2)
rnTAL                               2.0         2.1k         2.4Jc             2.9                        2.1
:1RBAN                              6.0          1.5         3.8               4.h                        3.7
RUnDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        50.4        48.6         46.0              42.5                       11.5
CRIEDr DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        28.8         24.2        19.6               12.0                       8.1
4ROnSS REPRODIUCTION RATE              3.4         1.4         1.4               3.0                        2.0
FANILY PLANNINC
ACCF.PT'IOS. ANUAL (THOUS)
I'SERS (2 Or MARINED W1Cl)           ..           ..
FOOD AM NUMITKOU
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(I94- 71-100)                       100.0        92.0         99.0              97.5                      113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
cALnuies 12 OF RWunaEnTSrrs)       63.0        88.0         84.0             102.3                      111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           49.0        51.0         52.0              72.0                       67.9
OF UINTCH ANIMAL AND PULSE        18.0        IS.0         23.Old            17.8                       34.1
CHTLD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          59.4        44.4         29.3              15.2                        5.3
LIFE EKccT. AT SIRTH (TEARS)         36.0         40.4        45.5              57.2                       64.6
INFANT HORT. RATE (PER TROUS)       209.5       177.4       142.9              104.2                       62.6
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (zPOP)
TnTAL                                ..           ..        24.01/            59.3                       64.6
I!RSI                                 ..         ..         30o.07-            4.9                       77.3
RUlRAL                               ..           ..         S.d7             37.5                       44.3
ACCESS Tel EXCUETA DISPOSAL
t nor MoPIiLAriON)
TOTAL                                ..           ..          ..                 ..                      54.6
tattAN                               ......69.tZ
RIDRAL                               ..           ..          ..                 ..                      29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          13290.0    34260.0        7390.0            3536.0                     1776.0
t                        POP. PER NURSING PERSON                 ..          ..       850.0            1320.7                     1012.2
POP. PF  HOSPITAL  -M
rTTAL                            1410.0       980.0        650.0/.           643.3                       *77.0
UR8AN                                ..          ..        320.07;           545.0                      667.5
RIRAL                                ..           ..      4090.d0J          2662.0                     1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 8tD             ..          ..        33.3/n            26.4                       27.2
AVERAGE SIZE OF NOtWSENWD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
tlRtUR                                ..          ..          .                  ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERsOHSIROI
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URUAN                                ..           ..
RURAAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        22.0/f            46.2
URB                                  ..          ..         57.67?            77.6
mIRAL                                 ..          ..         1.7              16.1



ANNI:X  I
I'lgsi.  2'  al  '
YEMEN  P.B.-.            * SXIAL INDICA OIIN  At  bIt.I
YLN, r.B.a.                    P < cKINour (WMICRT1 AY kAUS) 
110ST                      tRubT 1UKkNl1111 N IA&    
10 CLTT 1DDLI INCUN&                        14U14kL rutli..
ADJUSTu ENROLLMEZT RATIUO
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    11.0         11.0        72.011             *9.0                       l.
"ALK                      0.           .          93 °              104.6                      I,uI.A
PYEAL.                    5. U       2310         11. UO             la.                        1
IECUNUIAITY  tUTAL                   1.u         10.0        1P                  2.1 Igj.u
EMALE                      .          1. 0          . 07             Y2  1. I
VuLATIONAL (2 uO  aLCUODAMYI            I *.0       3.1         110"8              IU.1
PUPIL-rmAI   RATIu
PRImAl                              29           11 0        ZitOld Old                                    II11 
KCINDAMTY                           I1.0 I0. u0. 2U3.1 1                                                    I.1 
AUULT LIrERACY  uATk (2)                                        60.0              6).)                        W.
PASSEMGEU CAIISITaUUSAND POP            7.6         e.d          6.1               26.0                       4.
RADIO lUCeIVERbV/TIOUSAD POP          49.0 *        1.1         SZ.4             1I1.1                      21. 2
tV RIECIVELSITAIIUSAND POr             Z.SjA       14.0         16.0 4            .5.0                       IU.
NEWSPAPER CDAILY GCENEAL
IN"TKEST) CIRCULATION
PER tNOUSAND POPULATION                            1.0         .*                 31.0                         . 
CIMA  ANUAL ATTENOANCEICAPITA                       2.1          J.2f               1.1                        2. 
TOTAL LABUO  POUCC UnIus)             330.0       392.0        170.0
FEMAL  (PERCENT)                     1.0          1.9          5.6              I0.1                       214.5
AISRICULTURE (PEIRCENT)             70.0         e5.0        11.0               12.1                       31.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  15.0         17.0        15.0               It.s                       21.9
PARLTICIPATION llAr  (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               21.3         2e.2         21.4              Z0 S1.1
MALE                                52.0         49.9         0. 1b.1 4.9.1
FEPALE                               2.2          25          2.S 8.b                                      14.6
ECONOMIC UEPWDENCY RATIO                1.7         1.6 J.U                        1.a                         1.I
PERCENT OP PRIVAYE INCOME
MICE YCO RI
dlCtlCST SE OP KOOSEdOLDS
.1LGd1T 2uS uF NOUSaOLDS
LOWEST Zag OP HOUSEtOLDS
LOWEST 40t OF HOUSECOLOS
ESTIMATEU ABSOLUTE PUVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
Ullama                                                                         2re 1                      289 I
RURAL                                                        4 10./h           IF7.1                       111;1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOZE
LEVEL CUSS PU CAPITA)
URXAN                                                        90 Oh            400.0                       )19.e
RURAL                                                        57.07i            2h3.3                       172.1
ESTtIATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
PUVERTY INCOlE LEVEL (t)
UOUM.s                                                                          22.0
RURAL                                                        20.O/h             10.e
NOT AVAILABLL
NOT APPLICABLE                            T
l  T C i
/a  The group aevrages for each Lndicator are population-weghted aritLbtic _-nS   Coverage of countries mong the
Indicators depends on avalebtlIlty ol data and Ia net unifrm.
/b  Unlaes  otherwise noted, -D   f- or 19bOU  refer to any year between 1959 and  9il;  Data for 1970' between 19b9 and
1911; and data for -Moet Recent Eetlate  betwen  1979 acd 1961.
/c  Birth and death rates are crud  aetitates.  The natural rate of increase does not &gree with observed populatton
growth rate; /d 1977. /e 197b; /t Percent of population, 1975 data; 1f  19t6; lh 178; /1 Ag  10 peers and over, for
1913.
Kay 1981



-23-                                                                                            ANNEX I
Page 3 of5
.   *4.~~~~......- .a. ......-.
.~~~~~~~~~~~.... ..... .a.:....a.a,-                                                                                                             .
.  *.99'.9  4.  .  .~4           .       .i~.a4~q4.qt~42.9    .s.~22                        .~.!2-*
.  *      .        ~             .      .2.w'4           .              .'             ..Z' Z.
:  ~ ~   . . -    .       .      .       ..          .         .a-    a;.~~~~~~~..-.....-~~~.-                                                - .
9529  ..9 9. . .          L.I 
Z ~      ~               ~               ~              ~. .2.                                                                    ..
9.99  .94 .9~.. ~r9.ss  ..2  ....
99. 9492 .2...  9*2.9  *.2 .:   5  . .   . ...                                       .a. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4    9.   1  ~~~~                                                    S .       -..9. *.9~~~~~~ ~   994   .9~~~~.  .24. el       .9.      .t
.L.9 .-2 ~~~~~~~?  ..t2~~~~~.                                     94....9.2~~aq    . - 2.9.                                  .      
-C .~~~~~~~~~I-    -t~~~~~~~~~~~ -2-L feed. lell..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           .4 94...a9                    .
=9.9  4          .1t1   iIas eVe-.. .I                                                                                                          . 4..tv .-. IV.             [l'a.:.:4.l
-__                       95...  .I                                           .      .-                        24t- .  l      -.-te.-  999  - * 9. 459                   .                a
el1...9.Md..                                                                                                 9       L- tlL1I9.9    .2. -1   M~    .99L.-2   ....
....4g.~~~2r.   .9E4.."
-.                                  ~5 999999su    9-                                                                      2 4  "    9                          -
: -.                  '9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~77:~I;                                                                              t 1I
-_._           E__      -..          'S                                    99                                 9   *I    S        ..          ...w      9.4.,. 95    .   9a9.449
.94..954...~~~~~~~e..C~                                                                        .           499......
99. 9 92.4  99.9949 . .: in,   .     .a     l r - 2"                           tL        .Z!'9  .9-49299    ,.: .9...9.r9 . .                                        99
.-.II     t.ldv-  1a-d.*.     t9?9999    9.2W   9                             -           &-      .    .     ib-le               L'.    ,.%       
a49. .. 9.94`2 94:          .          .   .49l u.9.9" P*.9a49                                                                       - . I9  5L.. 
'.922:d t9    419-' 2         led 9999h -29    .22   *99t-.92  .59.t-                                                                                      t ', .:;..,  .1.. s..  .j  4 rrs
- - ~~9. ~959 59.~ .    49*              ~            ~               ~9~9 79.    .     -.~1..     .4...            -d 1.;I *.*4



- 24 -
Pq2 4  .5
off;  Com    BKM
WThCNL AQnNIS
1981
QIP at met pe                 910    100
Gmss Dwstic Imem              310      31
GC8s Natunal S&vip             41       5
Eqmrt of pods aNdi NIS        27       3)      hUmi RA  of GDWA  (Z)
IQorts of ago" a  Ws5         775      85         (umstat alas)
,197681
CDP at fcor cost              560    10                 4
of Wbid
Agricultuze & Fidwie          77     14                0
azk3irY                    G68      12               10
Qmucructim                    76     14               10
Tiacspcrt                    66      12              -3
Goverrn=    Services         146     26               12
,{VRt FIlalK
(inTdllLicxs yeni DiVsA)      1974/75   1975       1976   1977   1978  1979   1980   1981   1982
Total meceipcs 2/                26    16.9        Ml.1    43.4    56.0   68L0    107.2   124.8    137
Cuwzent eepDUbies             27.6    25.6       39.2   47.      614   76.2    96.0   137.5    142
Curcen deficit                 -4.0    -8.7      -7.1   -4.0    -5.4   -8.2    11.2   -12.7         -5
DevelopIent eqisulitums       19.6    18g       39.2   57.3    59.7   52.0    74.2   105.1    137
O3eall deficir                -M3.6   -27.6    -46.3  -613   -65.1  -40.2   -63.0  -117.8   -142
Borrzii fzom BwAvid   Systm   10.      12.5      15.6   18.5    13.2   27.6    19.0    55.7         65
Fkrbar.l Fiocizt               13.2    15.1      30.7   42.8    519   32.6    44.0    62.1         77
41EY, CIEDT AND PRICES
(Y.D. millicu, end periaod                1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
Mbey and qusi-iooey                      55      67    98   140   168   217   2LS   321   383
Bank credit to Ggere                     X       37    62    72    87   110   127   151   216
Bazk cxedit to    G     __ SectcrMa    19   24          3L    49    59    61    98   106   102
Ixzsee in 2
Comuer prices                            ZW      12     4      5      6    10    10       4    10
1/ Ihe fisclI yew mm April - rchd  31 wutil ihida 31, 1975 htn it bece,
April 1 - Deser 31, 1975 and  or a-Ere ¢    is a a calmisw yew bmab
2/ oIudm curmt    d mIqu eutws ff ditic m                      s and mlf-fiz      g
of poblic ewezpcim.
3/ Nntly pMic sector  is .



U~ I
- 25 -                                     P!p S of S
BMANCE cl akIYIS (u$ million)  1974   1975          1976 V977    1978         1979      1960  W        19182
Exports                              8       8       26       24       17       1)       38        a         35
LLRcs                             -0    -178    -268    -365    -386    -411    -650             -763      -797
Tt.e Deficit                     -182    -170    -242    -341        -369    -391      -612      -735      -762
Non-Ibr.  Servic, net             22       14      2D        1D      17        14      14        10        -7
F* toE   Serves, Mt              48       18       43       76      111       142     176       199       193
Lw Imc                         91)    ff)       67n  (69)    (10-3) (13-1)   (14-6)    (15-5) (10
-insemit IiCM                  (7)      (3)      (6)      (7)      (8)     (11U     (30)      (44)      (33)
wrem  Aa_cun Deficit              112    -138    -179    -255    -241  _235  ! 21                 526       576
TMsE_                              1      52       125     174       191     205      284       399       401
oEfiCiAl                         )      i)       (46)     5)       ()       (2)    IB) M)              ()
private 2/                      _       (42)    (79)    (119)    (155)    (18)    (2D1       (25)      (2)
owcia muIdx Lq ca1, ut    65              31       73       70       91       59       76       171       139
3Grow    D                     (6-5)   05       (75      On(      69       (6-)    (8-)    (17-5)      CM)
PASMS(0)    (-I)(  (-2-)                                  H)D (      )     (-5)    HO(-4)              (-11)
Or CApital (il. E A0)              38       42        4       29       45       -6       86       -24        68
zin ffiCial PweZwa
-uin-se)                         8       13      -27      -18      -89      -22      -25       -20       -32
Gum OfficiAl Rewws (end yeer)  67           54       81I      99       188     210      235       255       287
-            EM1                              Aveqp L960-
g; MiLc P   i
Fish and Fish Pwucs                            12      38
Agricazl.aL Pnx&u=                              13     41
Oc±ff                                           7      21
LDEE (Dmerber 31, 1962                  Us$ Illion
External IdPlic Debt O      gtazi                 1,540
of whichz  Diabtmd                               785
DebtS vicePayusin 1l98l                              15
Debt Service Ratio (apocts of
Goods a   Servics)                               4.5 ptert
21  mIt of  .-epots.
2/  'bO          t



- 26 -
Annex II
TME bSATU CF H1K COU?P OPERAIL
1N THE Pa*U' S Dl;lMlIC REMIC CF YDEN
Statement of IIA Credits a/
(As of September 30, 1983)
M Million -
hint
(less cancellations)
Credit                                                            IB            Undisbursed
No.         Year   Borwer        Ehrpose
Seven credits fully disbtrsed                                     37.69
768- )DR     1978      EDRY     Wadi flban Agric. Proj            5.2               1.8
829- YDR     1978     PDPOEr 1                                    5.0               LO
865- YDR     1978      EDRY     Ecation II                        4.0               1.3
93- YDR      1979 g    DW       Fisberies I                      10.0               3.5
1038- )DR     1980     FDRY      Aden Water Supply                13.2              6.2
1050- YDR     198      E1RY      Eletzole  Dev. Assistanxe         9.0               L7
1144- YDR     1981     EOIY      }i&ways III                      12.5              8.0
L 45- YDR     1981     EDi)B     Wbdi BeihanAgric. Proj.           8.0              7.0
1159- YDR     1981     EDIRY     Al Mkalla Water Supply            3.5              2.4
1i2L- YDR     1982     IDRY      FAucation III                     6.0              5.8
1268- YDR     1982      DIRY     Power II                          7.5              7.1
1274- YDR     1982     EOR       Fisheries III                     6.0              5.99
195- YDR      1983     EDR       Roads Flood Reconstnrction        7.0              4.4
1346- YDR     1983     ED(       Wadi Hadramwt Agr. II             9.0              9.0
1377- YDR     1983     HERY      Health Development                7.6              7.6
1416- YDR     1984     EDR       Seiyun Water Supply               7.0              7.0
Total                                    158.19 bI         79.79
of whid has been repaid                     .10
Total nw held by HlA                     158.09 /
Total ualisbursed                                           79.79
aJ The status of the projects listed above is described in a separte report on all BankMTA
financed projects in execution, whidc is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors an April 30 and Ortober 31.
bI Excluding exhage adjustents.



- 27 -
ANNEX ILL
Page I of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATLC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare          Eight months (May 1982 to January
Project                                  1983)
(b)  Agency responsible for Preparation       Government and Consultants
(c)  First Bank mission to consider           May 1982
Project
*d)  AppraisaL Mission                         February 1983
(e)  Negotiations completed                   March 1984
(f)  Special Fund Credit effectiveness        By September 1984
Section 11. Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III. Special Conditions in the Credit Agreement
1.   Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)    the opening by the Government of a Special Account for a Revolving
Fund for project execution on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (paras. 62 and 65).
2.   Other Conditions.  The Borrower has agreed to:
(i)    Develop the curricula for the vocational instructor training
institute and for the national center for rural extension training
and provide them to IDA for review by December 31, 1985, following
which it would put the curricula into use (paras. 48 and 50);
(ii)    Establish and thereafter maintain a committee with membership and
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by January 1, 1985. The
committee would prepare and provide to IDA for its review and
comment evaluation reports on each program included in the project,



- 28 -
ANNEX IIL
Page 2 of 2
beginning two years after the first graduation of students in the
case of the primary teacher training institute, the vocational
instructor training institute and the rural extension center, two
years after the installation of the new equipment in the case of the
text book production unit, and two years after the procurement of
the moblie units in the case of the school maintenance program. All
measures recommended by the respective reports and agreed with IDA
would be taken, where necessary and appropriate (para. 57); and
(iii)    Cause the Central Board of Audit to carry out annual audits of the
project accounts, and furnish to IDA the audit reports not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 58).
)



,,>;  rr x-".   ! |PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBlIC  OF  YEMEN
*, ribq .- ~~~~~~~~~~~FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                              . ...
.,.A       , A                                                                                        
*||-^|-"; : . . . ~~~~O                                                                                                                     aN>~ 
z  ,J                       : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
'I       \             ~ARAB                                   /           ' 
-16- ? ~REPUB;-LIC j/Sr\ fr5a;Zt r
F           t                      E  ¢              W         4          .        s\           . !tA£rs@Al                                 PRIMARY  TECHRAr^INING RS$T'tTVE
>        V                      E   \  ~~~~~~~~~~~'$                                          7' 5   huha.r                      n     vocAr(ORAL 19srRUCTOR rRAl9l9G INSTI%qt
1   2         g      )          IlJ°J  Srw                 it          y7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nt 6uza                0      CE94TER FOP RURAL ElrTE%SlO% TRAININ
-14   9   K           -;    n  §- 1* ; Itj; It w '\t,Xtar'QS    .   >                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TExrToar. PRODUCTIONw 1jv4,
os  /  <  -4,"  BX "; .................. , / .. >'^14+ *Itt. 9 # B,,NATIO abCAPTTALS ANDSEt:ECTFO TOM
9 relz > cpvS .ril ; §^V.1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRICULTURAL AREAS                                                                   _-
ldotFe           < KOtS      O@luqto                                                                                            .......... ... .t Mvr R9oRAI[Or IAoU.l^"SA ^D   suuVBRr  S
tJA611-lJo   .                                                                                                                           NTIANT-O%A 113UDA-I                        P.lZn¢  twr^"11~P   Z z S gs 
*    44,  Am Rslq                    46                                4e                                   ............. *so5- ......  ot
|                       I                                 I                                I                                     a                                                                  ._~~44






