Document of
The World Bank   FILE CO PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-27 75-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
GRAIN STORAGE AND MILLING PROJECT
April 15, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRE]NCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =  Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$1.00                 =  TSh 8.3
TSh 1.0                 = US$0.12
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in
relation to a basket of the currencies of Tanzania's
trading partners, the IJS Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in
this report were made at US$1.00 to TSh 8.3 which
is close to the 1979 average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EAC       =  East African Community
EADB      =  East African Development Bank
FAP       =  Financial Action Program
ICB       =  International Competitive Bidding
MDB       = Marketing Development Bureau
MOA       = Ministry of Agriculture
MOF       = Ministry of Finance
MT        = Metric Tons
NMP       = National Maize Project
NMC       =  National Milling Corporation
PPF       =  Project Preparation Facility
PPMB      =  Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau
SGR       =  Strategic Grain Reserve
FISCAL YEAR
Government:  July 1   - June 30
NMC          August 1 - July 31                                      ?



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
GRAIN STORAGE AND MILLING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:          United Republic of Tanzania.
BENEFICIARIES:    National Milling Corporation (NMC).
AMOUNT:            US$43 million equivalent.
TERMS:             Standard.
RELENDING TERMS:  US$36.0 million of the proceeds of the credit would be
passed on to NMC on a grant basis.
PROJECT            The project would primarily aim to improve NMC's capacity
DESCRIPTION:       to procure, transport, store and mill foodcrops.  Specific-
ally, the project includes the rehabilitation of 40% of
NMC's existing godowns and all its existing silos; the
construction of 40-50,000 metric tons (MT) of additional
storage capacity; the financing of tarpaulins and polythene
sheets for open storage; the implementation of pilot programs
involving controlled open storage and dryers; the expansion
of maize milling capacity by the extension of the Dar-es-
Salaam mill by 70 MT/day and construction of a new mill at
Dodoma with a capacity of 120 MT/day; the rehabilitation of
existing mills; a central laboratory and satellites for
grain and flour analysis; transport for NMC; training for
NMC staff at all levels; and technical assistance, incre-
mental staff, and consultants' services to NMC.
The project would also provide financing for the Marketing
Development Bureau (MDB) and the Project Preparation and
Monitoring Bureau (PPMB) in MOA in order to ensure their
continued involvement in policy analysis in the agriculture
sector in Tanzania; this work will include,but not be
limited to,policy issues involving NMC.
The major risks of the project include the possibility
that the policies affecting NMC will not be changed enough
to ensure that NMC can achieve financial viability, the
question of whether NMC will be able to alleviate its oper-
ating inefficiencies, and the ability of NMC to effectively
implement the investment program. The first area is being
addressed through development of a Financial Action Program
while the latter two are being addressed with increased
technical assistance and training; in view of these efforts
the level of risk is viewed as acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ESTIMATED COST:
Local   Foreign   Total
--- US$ Million -----
Component
Rehabilitation-Stores and Silos                           5.3       4.4      9.7
New Stores                                                6.5       5.8      12.3
Tarpaulins and Polythene Sheets for Open Storage           .5       2.0       2.5
Pilot Programs                                             .1        .1        .2
Mill Construction and Expansion                           1.5       2.3       3.8
Mill Rehabilitation                                        .4       1.6       2.0
Laboratories                                               .3        .7       1.0
Vehicles                                                   .5       3.0       3.5
Training                                                   .1        .6        .7
Staff & Consultants                                        .9       2.8      3.7
MDB                                                        .4       2.7       3.1
PPMB                                                       .3       2.7       3.0
Total Base Cost                                     16.8     28.7      45.5
Physical Contingencies                                    1.0       1.2       2.2
Price Contingencies                                       4.6       6.1      10.7
Total Cost                                          22.4     36.0      58.4
Total Cost Net of Taxes and Duties                  21.4     36.0      57.4
FINANCING PLAN:                           Local Costs   Foreign Costs   Total
-------------US$ million-----------
IDA                    7.0            36.0          43.0
Government
of Tanzania          15.4            0.0           15.4
Total                 22.4            36.0          58.4
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:        FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
(US$ million)
Annual        .5     4.2      12.3    12.9      8.9      3.7       .5
Cumulative   .5      4.7      17.0    29.9    38.8    42.5    43.0
RATE OF RETURN:       38%
APPRAISAL REPORT:    Report No. 2639a-TA, dated April 15, 1980
East Africa Region



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A GRAIN STORAGE AND MILLING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit of US$43.0 million equivalent to the United Republic of Tanzania
to help finance a proposed grain storage and milling project. The credit
would be on standard IDA terms. US$36 million in credit funds would be
passed on to the National Milling Corporation (NMC) on a grant basis.  The
remaining credit funds would be utilized by the Marketing Development Bureau
(MDB) and the Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau (PPMB) in the Minis-
try of Agriculture (MOA).
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976 and the
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A new Country Economic Memorandum is expected to be issued later this year.
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 30 least developed countries in the world
with a per capita income in 1978 of US$230. The economy is still heavily
dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture
and approximately 50% of GDP and over 70% of total exports are derived from
agricultural production. The industrial sector is still small, producing
about 10% of GDP, approximately the same percentage as 11 years ago. The
service sector produces about 40% of GDP. Overall population density is
low, though a few areas are considered overpopulated. Population growth is
estimated at 3.0% per annum with both fertility and mortality at relatively
high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, transportation, and wholesale trade
are under state control. There is extensive state intervention in economic
activity, including import licensing, foreign exchange controls, price control,
the reservation of some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and
detailed Government investment planning. The second major feature of
Tanzania's development strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development
and social programs to benefit the poor and reduce inequalities in income
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Tanzania Rural Development Bank Project, dated February 13, 1980.



distribution. This is reflected in ambitious Government programs for the
provision of rural water supplies, health services and universal primary
education.
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1968-78 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.8%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita. While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in imnport prices in 1973 and 1974, the economy
recovered with annual growth of 5 to 6% for 1976 through 1978. During the
1970's services was the fastest growing sector in the economy at 6.3% per
year.
6.        The Government has a good record of domestic resource mobilization.
Between 1967-68 and 1977-78 the share of recurrent revenues rose from 15.1%
to 19.3% of GDP. However, most of- this increase occurred before 1975-1976;
in 1974/75 revenues peaked at 22% of GDP. The increase was achieved through a
combination of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75, the
rate of national savings has also been high: gross national savings fluctuated
at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960s through 1973, fell to half that
level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis level in 1976
and 1977. These are high levels of savings for a country at Tanzania's income
level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of more equitable income distribution. Between 1969 and 1975 the
average urban-rural gap remained approximately constant, halting the trend
of an increasing gap in the early 1960s. Moreover, it is likely that this
gap has been slightly reduced since 1976 due to continued recovery of agri-
cultural production and higher producer prices. However, regional income
differentials in rural areas have tended to widen slightly. Within the formal
urban sector there has been a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income
differential between the highest-paid government officials and minimum wage
earners, from 50 to 1 in 1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975. However, a large informal
sector has emerged comprising large numbers of unemployed and underemployed
workers with earnings significantly below the official urban minimum wage.
The policies of wage restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975
should have a beneficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribu-
tion, and the basic needs oriented programs in rural water, health and primary
education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a significant redirection in
public expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite this impressive overall record of development, some pro-
blems have begun to manifest themselves in recent years. Exports have failed
to keep pace with the growth of the rest of the economy: the overall export
index is down almost one-third since 1966. This poor performance in exports
is due to the poor growth rate of agricultural cash crops. While agricul-
tural output has increased impressively in recent years (by an average of
about 7%), most of this growth has been in the hard-to-measure subsistence



- 3 -
sector; the monetary sector has lagged well behind. This failure of export
growth has led to increasing dependency on foreign loans and grants to pay
for imports.
9.        A second increasingly serious problem is the deceleration of the
growth of government revenues. While still at a high ratio to GDP compared to
most other developing countries, government revenues have been growing more
slowly than GDP in recent years. At the same time recurrent expenditures have
been higher than budgeted. As a result, public sector savings have been well
below expectations and the Government has had to increasingly rely upon
borrowing (both foreign and local) and external aid for financing its devel-
opment program.
Recent Economic Developments
10.       During 1975-77 the Government adhered to the program agreed to
at the time of the Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. This program
included redirecting investment to the directly productive sectors of industry
and agriculture, higher agricultural producer prices, constraints on wages and
salaries, price and tax increases to restrain consumption and tight control
of imports. These policies, aided by the boom in coffee prices, succeeded in
keeping government spending under control, with low levels of borrowing from
the banking system, and led to a balance of payments surplus of almost US$150
million in 1977. Food production increased and government stocks of most
foodgrains reached record levels. In 1978 the Government was able to ease
import restrictions and begin to import the spares and raw materials needed
by all the major sectors in the economy.
11.       Unfortunately, the price of coffee, Tanzania's major export, began
to fall at the same time that imports were liberalized. Also, in October
1978 war broke out with Uganda and the resulting imports of military equipment
and other resources required for the war effort put an increasing strain on
the balance of payments and the domestic budget. Consequently, the current
account showed a deficit of more than US$450 million in 1978 and the overall
balance of payments was almost US$300 million in deficit. The Government's
foreign reserves were rapidly drawn down and the country was forced to delay
payment of about US$60 million in import bills.
12.       The situation deteriorated further in 1979.  The overall balance
of payments for 1979 was expected to be almost US$200 million in deficit and
arrears on import payments were estimated at about US$200 million by the end
of the year. At the same time the domestic budget deficit has increased
substantially.  A recurrent budget deficit of almost TSh 1 billion (US$120
million) was estimated for FY1978/79 and government borrowing from the
banking system was estimated at about TSh 3 billion (US$360 million), a major
component in the increase in the money supply of about 35%. In an effort to
deal with the increasing balance of payments deficit, import licenses were
reduced by almost 40% in real terms from the 1978 level and the Government
announced a 10% devaluation in January of 1979. In addition the FY1979/80
budget called for a reduction in the level of recurrent expenditure and
borrowing from the banking system of Tsh 1.67 billion; however, through the



-4-
first quarter of the fiscal year borrowing was already TSh 1.4 billion as
spending agencies were able to exceed their budgetary allocations. In early
1979 the Government was able to arrange for almost US$75 million in funds from
the IMF from a first credit tranche, the Trust Fund and the Export Compen-
satory Fund, but negotiations for further assistance from the IMF have so far
been unsuccessful. To deal with the increasing economic problems as well as
provide a framework for IMF assistance, the Government urgently needs to
develop a comprehensive program to deal with the emerging crisis, as it did
in 1974; the Bank has offered to help the Government in developing such a
program.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance on
concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid has
been given to Tanzania and the Government's reluctance in the past to use
higher cost commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service
ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the recent balance
of payments crisis has forced the Government to utilize commercial loans and
suppliers credits and as a result the debt service ratio is estimated at 12%
in 1979 and projected at 15% in 1980. We expect it will remain in the range
of 15-20% throughout the 1980's. In 1978 the Bank held 12% of Tanzania's
external debt (for the Bank Group, it was 28%) and received 37% of Tanzania's
debt service (40% for the Bank Group). We are projecting this debt service
share to fall to about 21% in 1980 and to remain around 25% for the coming
decade.
14.       Tanzania's development program will require resources in excess of
domestic savings and external capital made available to finance the foreign
exchange costs of projects. Given the Government's efforts to mobilize
domestic resources and in view of our support for its increased emphasis
on local cost intensive rural investments, the Bank Group will continue to
finance a high proportion of total costs including, in appropriate cases, a
portion of local costs.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has now prepared reports on
the results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corporations and the General
Services, and the methodology adopted in appraising the assets and liabilities.
The next phase of the mediator's work will be to make recommendations on the
allocation of these assets and liabilities. The mediator's report and recom-
mendations on the future structure of the East African Development Bank (EADB)
have been accepted in principle by the Partner States and the revised EADB
Charter along with the Treaty to enact the new Charter have been submitted to
the three Governments for signature.
16.       The de facto breakup of the Community has had some impact on
Tanzania's budget as new national entities take over the services formerly
provided by the EAC Corporations. A major development related to the EAC



difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major
trading partner of Tanzania and considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and developing alternative outlets
for a range of manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA 1/
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1962, 40 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, of which
two were on Third Window terms, amounting to US$759.5 million have so far been
approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10
loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development
of the common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community. IFC
investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero
Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial difficul-
ties and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company
to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million in soap manufactur-
ing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June 8, 1978 and an
investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was approved on
May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       To support Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. While up to the end of FY1972 Bank Group operations were
directed mainly to infrastructure, the overwhelming majority of the operations
approved by the Executive Directors since FY1973 have been for directly produc-
tive projects. Furthermore, a number of recent Bank Group supported infra-
structure projects have been closely linked with specific productive activi-
ties. For example, the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved
in January 1976, will support the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No.
1385-T-TA and 1386-TA) and the Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. 1607-TA and
Credit No. 833-TA). Directly productive projects recently approved include
the Second Cashewnut Development Project (Credit No. 801-TA), the Tobacco
Handling Project (Credit No. 803-TA), the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Loan
No. 1650-TA and Credit No. 875-TA) and the Tanganyika Development Finance
Company Limited Project (Loan No. 1745-TA). In addition, a Tourism Rehabilita-
tion Project (Credit No. 860-TA), a Sixth Education Project (Credit No. 861-TA)
and a Fifth Highway Project (Credit No. 876-TA) were approved by the Executive
Directors in FY1979. A fourth line of credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank
(Loan No. 1750-TA), an Engineering Credit for the Dar-es-Salaam Port (Credit
No. S-24-TA) and a line of credit to the Tanzania Rural Development Bank
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Tanzania Rural Development Bank Project, dated February 13, 1980.



-6-
(TRDB), have been approved this fiLscal year. Projects which have been ap-
praised include a Second Urban Wal:er Supply Project, a Coconut Project, a Tea
Processing Project, an Education P?roject and a Rural Development Project in
Mara Region. A small scale industries project, an urban project, a harbours
project, and a railway project are also under preparation.
19.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. It is clear in
retrospect that both the Bank Groiup and Government have been optimistic re-
garding Tanzania's absorptive capacity. The causes of the difficulties in
implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of suitably trained
and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in identifying agronomic
input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder farmers while others
result from the strains associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on
poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent and drastic admin-
istrative changes, which -- although potentially the source of long-term
benefits -- have disrupted orderly execution of projects and made parts of
earlier project concepts obsolete. Also, the Uganda war (para. 11) has had
some impact on project implementation. In the early stages of the war there
was some diversion of equipment and manpower; however, most of these problems
have been solved. The more serious medium term problems involve the financial
and foreign exchange implications of the war. If these problems are not
resolved, the availability of adeqluate local funds and the shortage of foreign
exchange could become major constraints to project implementation and oper-
ating performance. In general, implementation difficulties have been most
severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our
lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector, these problems
have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast, the
"'modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the Tanzania Investment
Bank, Mwanza Textile and Morogoro Industrial Estate Projects, for example,
are proceeding well.
20.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on
Bank Group procurement with the relevant Government officials.  A special
project implementation unit was s(et up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
11 Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank Group
financed projects in agriculture iand rural development. In addition, a number
of EDI-supported courses on the transport and industry sectors have been held
at the East African Management Institute in Arusha, Tanzania. Furthermore,
the need to establish a close and continuous working level dialogue between
responsible Tanzanian officials and Bank Group staff on implementation problems
was one of the prime reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two
professionals in October 1976. Finally, in February 1977 a regular Government/
Bank Group review of project implementation was established. Discussions on
the Bank Group financed projects, chaired by the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
and attended by Bank Group staff and officials from implementing agencies,



-7-
deal in detail with individual problem projects and problems which are
affecting project implementation across a number of sectors. As a result
of these efforts, there has been some improvement in project implementation.
Actions agreed to during the reviews have been completed relatively quickly
and coordination and communication between MOF and the various ministries
and agencies responsible for project implementation have improved.
21.       The Government has become increasingly conscious of the importance
of effective implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project
implementation review system, MOF has set up a unit to oversee project per-
formance. As a consequence of these efforts, the disbursement record of Bank
Group financed projects have improved somewhat over the last two years, and a
recent analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is about
equal to the Bank-wide average. While there is still a potential for further
significant improvements, the Government is implementing its investment
program, including Bank Group and other foreign aided projects, more effec-
tively than in the past.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Background
22.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy. Most agricultural production is from small-
holdings using family labor. Large-scale agriculture is confined to a
number of private estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, sugar,
wheat, rice and livestock. Estate production has diminished in importance
since independence and the state farm program remains small. Tanzania's
national livestock herd, the second largest in Africa, is grazed extensively
over the 40% of the country which is free from tsetse fly infestation. It is
largely managed along traditional lines.
23.       The recent performance of the agricultural sector has been mixed.
Over the period 1967-77, the average annual rate of growth of agricultural
production was 2.7%, somewhat below the population growth rate. Particularly
in the early 1970's food crop production failed to keep pace with popula-
tion growth; as a result, Tanzania became increasingly dependent on imports
of maize, rice and wheat. In addition, the drought in 1973 and 1974 resulted
in poor harvests and large imports of foodgrains. Following this, the Govern-
ment implemented a number of policies to increase food crop production; along
with favorable weather conditions, these had some stimulating effect on
production. Since the drought, total agricultural production has recovered,
increasing in real terms by an average of above 5% per year. However, these
production increases have only returned agricultural expansion to its long-term
growth path. In addition, there is the problem of declining export crop
production as discussed in para. 8. Increasing the long-term growth rate in
agriculture and ensuring balanced growth are two of the key objectives of the
Bank Group's investment strategy in agriculture.



-8-
Rural Organization
24.       In order to improve the design and execution of rural development
projects and programs and mobilize lcocal resources, in 1972 the Government
adopted a decentralized administrative structure. Regions and districts
were given primary responsibility for the planning and implementation of
development activities within their jurisdiction and were given a high degree
of administrative autonomy. The Prime Minister's Office was established to
provide overall policy direction, coordinate regional plans and budgets
and assist the regions in preparing their development programs. While it is
clear that this decentralization of authority has improved communication
between the Government and the villages (as the civil service operating at
the district and regional levels are directly involved in rural development
efforts), problems of manpower availability and the ill-defined division of
responsibility between the regions, central ministries and agricultural
parastatals persist.
25.       Since independence, but particularly from 1970, the grouping of
dispersed farm families into villages (villagization) has been a key element
of Government strategy for the rural areas. The objective of this program
is to facilitate the provision of infrastructure and services to the rural
population and encourage self-reliance and a community approach to rural
development. During 1974, the emphasis shifted from creating additional
ujamaa 1/ villages to forming "development" villages, which place less stress
on communal production. At the same time, the pace of villagization was
accelerated; as a result there are now about 7,700 registered villages,
containing over three-quarters of Tanzania's rural population. While disrupt-
ing production somewhat in the short term, it is still too early to judge how
effectively the villages will be able to meet their goals over the medium and
long term.
Agricultural Services
26.       The MOA is responsible for the overall planning and monitoring of
the sector as well as coordinating agricultural research, training of exten-
sion staff, pricing policy, seed multiplication and supervision of agricul-
tural parastatals. Agricultural research is undertaken by a wide variety
of government agencies and while MOA has been given the responsibility for
overall coordination, research resources have not always been allocated
in accordance with development priorities. Agricultural extension services
are manned by staff trained by MOA but under the control of the regional
administrations. The links between research and extension are weak, and
field staff are typically poorly trained and inadequately supervised. A major
review of both the research and the extension systems is underway, and the
Bank Group has agreed to work with the Government to survey the needs in
these areas with the intention of subsequently preparing research and exten-
sion projects. Pricing policy is an important tool of the Government in the
agricultural sector. Since 1974, the Government has accorded greater recog-
nition to the need to give farmers production incentives; crop and livestock
1/   "Ujamaa" is a Swahili word meaning "familyhood".



- 9 -
prices are now reviewed annually and, within the context of panterritorial
pricing, substantial producer price increases have been made in recent years.
Agricultural parastatals, which exist for major crops and livestock, play a
key role in agricultural marketing and processing. The tendency has been to
progressively enlarge the role and scope of these institutions, and this has
frequently strained their capacities to efficiently provide the services
for which they are responsible. Overall operational efficiency is low, with
correspondingly high costs for services. The Government is aware of these
problems but has not yet developed a comprehensive strategy for addressing
them. The Bank Group, in the course of its appraisals of agricultural
projects, has been analyzing the parastatals involved and also intends to
initiate sector work involving a broader review of Tanzania's agricultural
parastatals.
The Food Crop Subsector
27.       Production.  Estimates of food crop production in Tanzania are
unreliable, as most production goes for subsistence consumption and, of the
surplus that is marketed, a substantial but unquantified portion goes into
unofficial channels. Food crop production is characterized by large year to
year variations, although over the past fifteen years there has been a slight
upward trend. The food crop sector is generally characterized by traditional
cultivation methods, low yields and vulnerability to change in weather. Maize,
rice and wheat have been the most important commercial food crops. In addi-
tion, cassava, white sorghum and bulrush millet have traditionally supplied an
important source of subsistence food in semi-arid areas.
28.       Consumer Demand.  Tanzania has been able to export maize in some
years, although it has also imported large quantities in years of bad weather.
The country has consistently been a net importer of rice and wheat. Projec-
tions of demand indicate that if present price relationships continue Tanzania
will probably continue to be an exporter of maize in some years and an
importer in others, while, for rice and wheat, it will continue to rely on
imports to satisfy about half of domestic demand.
29.       Marketing and Processing.  The minority of marketed food crops
passes either through informal private channels or through the official
channel of the NMC; of the total quantities marketed roughly 50-70% of the
maize and about 50% of the paddy and wheat pass through informal markets.
The amounts of these crops bought and sold by NMC vary greatly from year to
year. Purchases of other food crops, including sorghum, bulrush millet,
finger millet and cassava, have only recently came under NMC's mandate.
About one third of the total milling activities are carried out by official
parastatal organizations (including NMC) and the remaining two thirds by
smaller-scale private groups or individuals. Milling activities in the
private sector are carried out in village mills in rural areas and custom
mills in urban areas.
30.       NMC, the entity responsible for managing the proposed investments in
storage and milling, was established in 1968 as a manufacturer and processor
of agricultural products. In 1975, these functions were expanded to include



- 10 -
the purchase, procurement, transportation and storage of general grains and
staples offered for sale by farmers and other parastatals. As this increase
of NMC's responsibilities occurred at the time of drought and crop failures,
NMC became involved in distributing large quantities of imported grain on an
emergency basis as well as being confronted with the enormous task of carrying
out its broad mandate. With the abolition of all primary cooperatives in May
1976, NMC also became responsible for direct procurement from villages. While
NMC has coped with these increasing demands reasonably well, its organization,
staff and physical facilities have not been adequate to deal efficiently with
the simultaneous expansion of responsibility and logistical problems. As a
first phase of a long-term development program for NMC, the project would begin
the process of upgrading NMC's capacity to carry out its mandate effectively.
31.       NMC is a wholly government-owned parastatal headed by a Board of
Directors. Responsibility for its day to day operations rests with the
General Manager, a Presidential appointee. NMC is organized at headquarters
along functional lines into eight departments: Planning, Internal Audit,
Maintenance, Manpower Development and Administration, Procurement and Storage,
Transport, Production and Sales, and Finance. There are 24 branch offices;
one for each region and four in Dar-es-Salaam. Each department and branch
office is headed by a manager, who reports to the General Manager. There
are about 4,200 staff at NMC, of whom 400 are at headquarters, 1,200 in
Dar-es-Salaam branches, and 2,600 at other branches. A number of interrelated
problems affect NMC's operations. NMC is hampered by lack of specialists,
particularly in storage and accounting practices (however, it is overstaffed
at non-managerial levels). Furthermore, a large number of people report
directly to the General Manager and there is insufficient communication
between departments and branches. In addition, effective control or planning
is difficult because there is insufficient use of available information and
NMC's financial monitoring and control has been weak. NMC has made some
progress in addressing these problems through a recent reorganization and the
project would aim to further address them through the provision of technical
assistance, establishment of a management information system, introduction of
systematic planning, and a training program.
32.       NMC has procured up to 500,000 metric tons (MT) of crops in one
year. Crop procurement is hampered by inadequate communication between
villages and NMC, insufficient transport facilities, poor roads, a dearth of
village infrastructure to store crops, and lack of quality control at the
time of procurement. Storing crops in warehouses and in the open result in
heavy losses, due in part to poor management and in part to the poor condition
of the facilities. In addition, there is insufficient capacity to meet
demand for storage. The project would seek to improve the procurement and
storage of crops by the rehabilitation of existing facilities, construction of
new facilities, provision of transport facilities, and provision of technical
assistance and training.



- 11 -
33.       NMC's milling capacity for wheat is sufficient to meet demand
through 1982/83; for paddy there is excess capacity. However, for maize
milling, NMC has to make use of hammer mills and private contractors which
are not always reliable or available. The project would provide additional
maize milling capacity, rehabilitate NMC's existing mills and improve mill
management through technical assistance and training.
34.       As discussed below (para 54), NMC's financial situation is poor,
with increasing annual operating losses and reliance on overdraft facili-
ties from the National Bank of Commerce to finance operating costs. As of
November 30, 1978, NMC had an overdraft of approximately TSh 1.8 billion
(US$217 million), backed primarily by its inventory (valued at the cost of
procurement, handling and storage). However, the quality of this inventory
is questionable and this valuation does not take into account the considerable
deterioration of crops. In addition, some of the remaining good stock can
be sold only at prices much lower than its valuation, which is based on cost.
Addressing NMC's financial problems is the major focus of the comprehensive
Financial Action Program (FAP) which will be implemented in parallel with
project investments (paras. 54-62 below).
Previous Bank Group Experience in Agriculture
35.       Previous Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector in Tanzania
has included IDA credits totalling US$145.2 million and Bank loans totalling
US$37.0 million for fifteen agricultural and three rural development projects.
Agricultural projects include one for agricultural credit, three each for
livestock and tobacco, two for cashewnuts, and one each for production of
tea, sugar, maize, fish, forestry products and cotton. Rural development
projects have been financed by IDA in the Kigoma, Tabora, and Mwanza/Shinyanga
regions. Project Performance Audit Reports for two projects (the Flue-Cured
Tobacco Project and the Smallholder Tea Development Project) have recently
been prepared. In both cases, the economic rate of return was satisfactory,
but implementation experience highlighted the weakness of the parastatals
involved, and the consequent need for considerable investment in institution-
building. These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the
Project, where the development of NMC is a central objective.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The need for additional milling and crop storage facilities was
recognized in 1975 at the time of appraisal of the IDA-financed National Maize
Project (NMP) (Credit No. 606-TA). Accordingly, NMP provided financing for
construction of about 500 village stores, about 80,000 MT of storage for NMC
and a preparation study for future investment in storage and milling to meet
requirements up to 1985. The study was carried out by Coopers and Lybrand and
in July 1977 a proposal was submitted to IDA for financing. IDA discussed
the proposal extensively with Government and raised a number of issues with
respect to pricing policies, NMC's purchasing mandate, foodcrop export poli-
cies, NMC's finances and financial viability, the need for long-term institu-
tional development within NMC, and projected levels of crop production and



- 12 -
their implications for investment in expansion of facilities. After com-
pletion of the additional preparation work required, the project was appraised
in January 1979. In order to finance some of the activities needed to provide
a basis for project start-up and implementation, an advance of US$924,000
under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved in May 1979. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "'Tanzania - Grain Storage and Milling Project",
Report No. 2639a-TA dated April 15, 1980, is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in February
1980; the Tanzanian Delegation was headed by Mr. E. Mulokozi, then Principal
Secretary of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), and included representatives of
MOF, MOA and NMC. A Credit and ]?roject Summary is at the front of this
report; Annex III contains suppliemental project data.
Project Oblectives and Description
37.       The project would be the first phase of a long-term program to
improve NMC's management practicess and strengthen its capacity to procure,
transport, store and mill foodcrops. The investments financed under the
project would address NMC's projsected storage and milling requirements up to
1983. They will be supplemented by the FAP whose objective would be to re-
establish NMC's financial viability. Specifically, the project includes
provision for the following investments in NMC:
(a)  rehabilitation of about 40% of NMC's existing godowns and all its
silos, involving about 135,000 MT of storage capacity;
(b)  construction of about 13,000 m  or 20-25,000 MT of storage
capacity2in Dar-es-Salaam, Mtwara and Dodoma regions and about
13,000 m or 20-25,000 MT of storage capacity in unspecified
locations;
(c)  tarpaulins and polythene sheets for existing open storage;
(d) implementation of a pi:Lot program for controlled open storage
and dryers;
(e)  expansion of maize milLing capacity by extension of the
Dar-es-Salaam mill by 70 MT/day and construction of a
new mill at Dodoma with a capacity of 120 MT/day;
(f)  rehabilitation of existing NMC mills;
(g)  central laboratory and satellites for grain and flour analysis;
(h)  about 55 lorries for transport of grain and a radio communication
network; fumigation teams and mobile workshops; about 88 utility
vehicles and passenger cars; and about 45 motorcycles;
(i) training for NMC staff at all levels; and
(j) technical assistance, staffing, and consultants' services for
NMC to improve its management, information systems and planning.



- 13 -
38.       The project also includes financing for MDB and PPMB, two units
within the MOA responsible for giving policy advice to Government in respect
to pricing, project development, supervision and evaluation.
Detailed Features: NMC Investments
39.       Rehabilitation of Storage Facilities.  About a fifth of the exist-
ing NMC godowns need major repairs and improvements and a further fifth need
minor repairs and improvement. All NMC's silos need repair or improvement.
Investment in rehabilitation would provide Tanzania with the most economic
means of increasing storage capacity. The project therefore includes the
drawing up of a detailed program of rehabilitation and its subsequent imple-
mentation. Funds have been provided under the PPF to initiate this work.
40.       New Storage Facilities.  After the rehabilitation investments,
analysis shows that on a global level NMC will have almost sufficient per-
manent storage facilities through 1982/83. However, a regional analysis
indicates that NMC needs additional permanent storage in a number of spe-
cific areas. Ihe project therefore makes provision for the construction of
about 26,000 m of permanent flat storage (40-50,000 MT) which would meet
this need. Funds had been provided under the PPF for the relevant design
work.
41.       Tarpaulins and Sheets for Open Storage.  NMC will continue to
store food crops in the open throughout the project period because of
wide unpredictable year to year variations in storage requirements which
cannot be economically handled in closed storage. As the tarpaulins
currently used in open storage need to be replaced, the project would
provide replacement tarpaulins through 1982/83, sufficient to cover about
100,000 MT of open storage. PPF funds have been allocated to purchase
urgently needed tarpaulins. The project would also provide technical assis-
tance to improve the open storage practices of NMC.
42.       Controlled Open Storage.  Technical opinions vary on the feasi-
bility of expanding controlled open storage in Tanzania to substitute for
more expensive investments in permanent closed storage. Analyzing this
issue requires a close assessment of the management requirements and the
likely reductions in losses under each alternative. Recognizing the need
for further storage, and in view of the potential savings of an effective low
cost program of controlled open storage, a pilot program would be carried out
in three locations to evaluate this technology under different climatic
conditions and for different crops.
43.       Dryers.  To test the effect of mechanical drying on storage losses,
three dryers each with a capacity of 5 MT/hour would be placed at different
NMC locations.
44.       Maize Mill Construction.  The project would provide for the construc-
tion of new maize milling capacity, so that NMC can meet the projected demand



- 14 -
for maize flour. Specifically, t:he project provides for the extension of the
maize mill in Dar-es-Salaam from its current 50 MT/day to 120 MT/day, and the
construction of a new mill at Dodoma with a capacity of 120 MT/day. Added to
existing capacity, these investments should be sufficient to meet demand
projected for 1982/83, provided NTMC can raise its capacity utilization from
the current average of about 75-830% to something over 80%. Funds for the
design work for this component have been provided under the PPF.
45.       Rehabilitation of Mills.  The project would provide funds for
rehabilitation of existing mills, consisting of the replacement of parts and
equipment for small laboratories to be established at each maize mill for
routine analysis of grain and flour. Funds for the detailed preparation of
the mill rehabilitation program have been provided under the PPF.
46.       Central Laboratory.  A central laboratory would be constructed at
NMC's Pugu Road maize mill in Dar-es-Salaam for analysis of grain and
flour for nearby branches. For outlying branches, four smaller satellite
laboratories would be set up.
47.       Transport.  To supplement NMC's current trucking fleet of just over
200 trucks, the project would provide 46 four to seven ton trucks (and related
radio communications equipment) f-or procurement of crops from villages. In
combination with NMC's existing truck fleet, these additions would permit NMC
to cover its baseload requirement:s plus about 25-30% of peak procurement
needs. NMC would rely for the rest of its transport requirements on private
transporters and, in those regions covered by the IDA-assisted Trucking
Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (Credit No. 743-TA), on public
sector trucking companies. In adldition, a number of special purpose lorries
would be provided (four fumigation trucks, one wrecker, and six mobile work-
shops). To improve transport facilities for NMC personnel, the project would
also provide 56 four-wheel drive vehicles and 34 passenger cars.  In addition,
provision of 45 motorcycles would allow for use of two per branch by quality
control teams. To ensure the proper utilization of these motorcycles, NMC
would establish a credit scheme whereby its staff can purchase them and
receive a mileage allowance (Secl:ion 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
48.       Training.  NMC needs to develop an in-service training system
capable of identifying and meeting the training needs of its staff at all
levels in all operations. The training component included in the project is
designed to address this need; its costs are based on a preliminary program
drawn up at the time of appraisal which includes staffing, transport for
mobile teams, training facilities; and equipment (such as films and manuals)
as well as expenses incurred for local and overseas courses and visits. A
more detailed training program would be drawn up by NMC and submitted to IDA
by April 30, 1981 (Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement).
49.       Technical Assistance/Staffing and Consultants.  In order to strengthen
NMC's ability to implement the Project, funds would be provided for employment
of a range of experts for a number of years; funds are also provided for
technical assistance on a short-term basis to address specific issues.



- 15 -
Detailed Features: MOA Investments
50.       MDB and PPMB.  Tanzania's annual agricultural pricing policy reviews
are carried out by MDB; it also advises the Economic Committee of the Cabinet
on pricing issues. It was established in 1970, but since 1975 MDB has been
strengthened by provision of technical assistance by FAO. MDB's pricing
studies have been steadily improving to take account of the complex considera-
tions that enter such analysis, including the changing world market situation,
domestic producer incentives and equity. PPMB was established in MOA in 1978
to prepare, supervise and monitor projects being implemented under that
Ministry. As both these units are expected to provide significant policy
advice to the Government on a wide range of agricultural issues, funds are
included under the project to support them for a five-year period.  In the
past financing for MDB was provided by UNDP but funding constraints forced its
reduction over time; presently interim financing for both MDB and PPMB is
being provided under the National Maize Project (Credit No. 606-TA) to sup-
port these two agencies through June 1980. Funds provided under this Project
will meet the ongoing requirements for international staffing, vehicles,
operating costs, surveys, studies, analysis, as well as an office building for
PPMB. As part of their work program, both MDB and PPMB are expected to
analyze a number of issues for NMC, thereby also playing a direct role in the
successful completion of the NMC components of the project (paras. 59 and 68
below).
Project Implementation
51.       NMC would have responsibility for overall implementation of the
project components involving storage and milling. Implementation of the FAP
would rest with NMC and MOF. The MDB and PPMB investments would be overseen
by MOA.
52.       NMC:  Day-to-day responsibility for the project would rest with
NMC's Planning Manager. To assist him NMC's Planning Division will be
strengthened by increased staffing: a Planning and Management Expert and a
Supervising Engineer will be financed under the Project (Section 2.02(g)
and (e) of the draft Project Agreement). Furthermore, given the present
staffing of NMC and its major weaknesses in a number of areas, additional
staff for a range of NMC's other divisions are being financed under the
project. These include a Training Expert, a Silos Expert, a Fumigation and
Quality Control Expert, a Storage and Grain Handling Expert, a Maintenance
Engineer, a Transport Manager, a Chief Accountant, a Cost Accountant and five
Staff Accountants (Section 2.02(a)-(d), (f) and (h)-(k) of the draft Project
Agreement). Recruitment has already been initiated for this staff and the PPF is
available for financing of those individuals hired. All these experts would
be qualified and experienced, employed under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association and appointed before October 31, 1980 (Section 2.02(1) of
the draft Project Agreement). In addition, NMC would take all actions necessary
on its part to ensure the prompt employment of all its key staff, including
the Planning Manager (Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement). In total,
an estimated 900 months of technical assistance would be provided to NMC under



- 16 -
the project. The estimated cost per month ranges from US$700 to US$6,600.
This estimate includes all fees, international travel and subsistence.
53.       A detailed program for rehabilitation of NMC's storage and silo
facilities would be furnished to the Association by NMC by December 31, 1980;
it would include an economic analysis of each facility with estimated costs of
above US$100,000 and it would be implemented as agreed between the Association
and NMC (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement). For the construction
of the new storage facilities in identified locations, NMC would prepare and by
December 31, 1980, furnish to the Association a construction program including
detailed designs (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement). For the con-
struction of new storage facilities where locations have not yet been estab-
lished, NMC would prepare and submit to the Association a master plan which
includes a technical, financial and economic justification for each facility
(Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement); disbursements on these facili-
ties would not commence until a satisfactory plan is submitted (Schedule 1,
para 4(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). With respect to the
rehabilitation of mills, NMC would prepare and furnish to the Association not
later than December 31, 1980 a detailed rehabilitation program (Section 2.10
of the draft Project Agreement).  It would be a condition of disbursement
against civil works that the Storage and Grain Handling Expert and the Plan-
ning and Management Expert be in post, and against the transport component
that the Transport Manager be appointed (Schedule 1, para 4(b) and 4(d)
respectively of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       Financial Action Program: While the physical and technical assist-
ance components of the project would have a substantial positive impact on
NMC's finances as a result of the reductions in storage losses and improve-
ments in operating efficiency (the cumulative positive impact is estimated to
be about TSh 1.6 billion, US$190 mi'llion, by 1985/86), NMC would continue to
incur large annual losses unless there are changes in the policy framework
within which it operates. Rough estimates indicate that with no policy
changes, NMC's annual losses would rise to TSh 1.2 billion (US$150 million) by
1985/86, and the total bank overdraft required to finance the aggregate losses
would reach untenable levels of above US$1 billion. As losses of this magni-
tude cannot be sustained by the Government either through direct subsidies
provided by MOF or indirectly through bank overdrafts, over the next few years
Government will have to address more systematically the question of how NMC
can carry out its mandate and retain its financial integrity. The project
attempts to address this issue, including the correction of NMC's presently
misleading balance sheet (para 34 above), through the development of the FAP.
This program would involve improving the framework within which NMC operates
either by adjusting those policies which make it impossible for it to be
financially viable or by ensuring that it is compensated by Government for the
losses that result from financially, costly policy decisions. The major issues
to be focused on through the FAP are reviewed below.
55.       First, the FAP would involve the correction of NMC's capital
structure. As noted above, NMC's present inventory is seriously overvalued.



- 1 7 -
Therefore under the FAP, a team of experts would value NMC's inventory and
prepare a corrected balance sheet not later than January 31, 1981; after
this is completed MOF would,by June 30, 1981,draw up a proposal setting
forth actions to be taken by the Government to assist NMC in correcting its
balance sheet so that it accurately reflects an appropriate capital structure
(Section 5.02 of the draft Project Agreement and Section 4.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
56.       Secondly, the program would involve a package of policy measures to
be taken by the Government to improve NMC's performance. It is already agreed
that while NMC would continue to maintain a Strategic Grain Reserve (SGR), the
operation of this would be separated from its normal operations. Thus the
crops stored to protect the country against crop failure would no longer be
NMC's financial responsibility: by December 31, 1980, and every year thereafter,
Government would determine the nature, size and type of crops, and costs of
maintaining the SGR in consultation with NMC, and would assume full and direct
financial responsibility for any costs or obligations to NMC of operating it
(Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
57.       Other policies which need to be considered in order to strengthen
NMC's financial situation are panterritorial pricing, appropriate pricing
margins for NMC and the range of crops handled by NMC. However, it must be
emphasized that actions taken on these policies within the framework of the
FAP are not intended to cover indefinitely the losses of an inefficient NMC:
under the Project it is expected that NMC's operating performance will improve
considerably. To ensure that appropriate actions are taken in this respect,
a team of experts would carry out,not later than January 31, 1981,a cost-
criteria study to establish criteria against which NMC can measure its
increase in efficiency, with specific recommendations on changes in NMC's
operations (Section 5.03 of the draft Project Agreement). The Government
would review this Study and cause NMC to implement any recommendations
deemed necessary to improve NMC's operations (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
58.       The Government follows a policy of uniform prices known as pan-
territorial pricing, where prices do not reflect the costs of transport.
While having some impact on equalizing incomes, this policy has also placed
a financial strain on parastatals, particularly on NMC. Producers in remote
areas who would receive a lower price if transport costs were deducted from
the producer price find it more profitable to sell to NMC; similarly, con-
sumers in distant areas do not pay the full cost of transport. The situation
is the reverse in the nearby areas where producers and consumers find it
profitable not to use NMC. This encourages relatively greater purchases and
sales in distant areas where transport costs are higher and discourages those
in nearby areas, thus substantially raising overall costs of transport to
NMC. The costs of paterritorial pricing need to be examined within the
framework of the FAP.
59.      Another pricing issue involves the margins allowed NMC.  NMC has
little financial autonomy since producer prices and consumer prices are fixed
by Government. Since the drought in 1973/74 producer prices have played an
important role in providing incentives to increase production: producer
prices of food crops relative to export cash crops and in particular the



- 18 -
relative producer prices of drought-resistant food crops (cassava, sorghum,
millets) have been raised considerably. At the same time consumer prices for
the processed food grains have been kept low relative both to general price
increases and to the rising costs of handling and processing them: in real
terms the retail prices of sembe, rice and wheat flour have risen only slightly
since 1973/74. As a result, the margins between the producer and consumer
prices have been insufficient to cover NMC's costs and NMC has been incurring
losses on the milled food crops it sells. To analyze pricing decisions and
their effect on NMC, MDB would prepare an analysis on an annual basis, which
would show the impact of different producer and consumer prices on NMC's
finances and on the level of Government subsidies required to make NMC finan-
cially viable (Section 4.05 of the draft Development Agreement). In addition,
as noted above, the range of crops to be procured by NMC has been increased by
the Government in recent years. Combined with substantial producer price
increases for the crops which were added to NMC's mandate, this has resulted
in a situation where the official purchases of a number of these drought
resistant crops has increased dramatically. These have become non-commercial
crops as NMC has been unable to sell most of them (some were sold for export
at substantial losses) which has in turn created two serious problems for
NMC: the accumulation of low value crops taking up valuable storage space and
significant financial losses.
60.       Until Government has made decisions on pricing, NMC's purchase and
sales mandate, and has assumed financial responsibility for the SGR (para 56),
Government would provide NMC with financial subsidies, in order to prevent
accumulation of another unsound overdraft. NMC's planning division, with input
from MDB, would submit to MOF by April 1 of each year, beginning in 1981, a
procurement plan which would include the quantity of each crop it expects to
purchase in the following year and the net losses or profits anticipated as a
result of these activities (given the policy framework within which it operates);
the costs used in this exercise would take into account the recommendations of
the cost criteria study (Section 5.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
61.       After reviewing the procurement plans, and making appropriate adjust-
ment based on payments made to NMC and profits realized by NMC in the previous
year, MOF would finance NMC's expected net losses, as estimated in the procure-
ment plan. Payments would begin in fiscal year 1982 (Section 4.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
62.       The combination of steps outlined above would ensure that by June
30, 1982 and every June 30 thereafter, NMC's overdraft with commercial and
agricultural development banks would not exceed 25% of the value of projected
annual crop sales for the following year (Section 5.01 of the draft Project
Agreement). The Government would take or cause to be taken whatever measures
are required to enable NMC to achitsve thisobjective (Section 4.07 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
63.       MDB/PPMB: MDB and PPMB will analyze a wide range of policy issues
under the supervision of MOA. With this in mind both MDB and PPMB would
prepare and submit to the Association, for its review and comment, an annual



- 19 -
work program, including staffing requirements and how they propose to address
these requirements (Section 3.02(b) and 3.04(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). In total, an estimated 650 months of technical assistance
will be provided to MDB and PPMB under the project. The estimated cost
per month averages US$4,500; this includes salaries, international travel
and all subsistence costs.
Project Cost and Financing
64.       The total cost of the project would be US$58.4 million (TSh 484.6
million), including about US$1.0 million (TSh 8.3 million) of taxes and
duties. The foreign exchange component would amount to US$36 million
(TSh 299.3 million) or 62% of total costs. Detailed project costs are in-
cluded in the Credit and Project Summary. The IDA credit of US$43 million
would finance about 75% of project costs net of taxes and duties and this
would cover all foreign exchange costs and 31% of local costs. The Government
would provide the remaining US$14.4 million (US$15.4 million including taxes
and duties). In view of NMC's financial condition, IDA and Government funds
would be provided to NMC as equity (Section 3.01 (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). As noted above a PPF of $924,000 was approved for the
project. As of February 29, 1980, US$121,000 of the PPF had been disbursed;
the PPF advance would be refinanced under the project.
Procurement and Disbursements
65.       Vehicles, spare parts and equipment financed under the Project
would be bulked as far as possible and orders of US$100,000 equivalent and
above would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines (para A of the Schedule to
the draft of the Project Agreement). Construction of new closed flat storage
facilities, the new mill, the mill extension, silo rehabilitation and houses
would be bulked as far as possible, and contracts of US$500,000 and above
would be procured on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines
(para A of the Schedule to the draft Project Agreement). In the evaluation of
bids under Bank Group Guidelines, qualified domestic manufacturers and con-
tractors would be allowed a preference of 15%, and 7-1/2% respectively, or the
prevailing rate of duty, whichever is lower (paras B and C of the Schedule to
the draft Project Agreement). Procurement of goods and equipment which could
not be bulked in orders of US$100,000 equivalent or more and construction of
new stores and milling facilities, rehabilitation of silo facilities, and
housing at a cost of less than US$500,000 equivalent would be in accordance
with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the
Association (para D of the Schedule to the draft Project Agreement). Civil
works contracts for training facilities, pilot open storage plynths, labora-
tories, office buildings, and closed storage rehabilitation would be too small
and scattered to attract international interest and procurement would there-
fore be by contracts awarded following locally advertised competitive bidding;
foreign firms would be entitled to compete (para D of the Schedule to the
draft Project Agreement). The detailed designs for the new storage facili-
ties, mills and central laboratory would be submitted to the Association
prior to the solicitation of offers for construction (para A(3) of the
Schedule to the draft Project Agreement).



- 20 -
66.       Disbursements from the credit would be on the basis of (a) 80% of
all civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expendi-
tures on equipment, (c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expendi-
tures on vehicles, spare parts, technical assistance, consultants, studies,
and training; (d) 100% of foreign and 85% of local expenditures for MDB; (e)
100% of foreign and 90% of local expenditure for PPMB; and (f) 100% of the
costs of refunding the PPF advance. Disbursements would be fully documented
except for local expenditures for training which would be made against state-
ments of expenditures signed by the General Manager of NMC.
Accounts, Auditing, Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
67.       Separate accounts relating to project expenditures would be kept by
NMC (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement).  NMC's accounts would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and would be
submitted to the Association within six months of the end of each financial
year (Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement). At present NMC accounts
are in arrears, but the situation is expected to improve as a result of NMC's
employment of additional accounting staff under the project. NMC would also
establish and maintain separate accounts for the Strategic Grain Reserve (SGR)
(Section 4.01(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
68.       NMC would define and establish baseline data against which subse-
quent data would be compared; the results of the baseline survey would be
submitted to the Association by April 30, 1981 (Section 2.12 of the draft
Project Agreement). In addition, a management information system would be
established in NMC to improve the information available to management on
the critical variables effecting NMC's operations. PPMB would prepare and
submit to the Association a monitoring and evaluation program for the project
by August 31, 1980; PPMB would then assist in implementing this program
(Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Within six months of
completion of disbursements, NMC would prepare a project completion report,
using the reports of PPMB as the basis of its analysis (Section 2.06(c) of the
draft Project Agreement).
Justification and Risks
69.       The main benefits of the NMC components of the project would be
the improvement in NMC's capacity to procure, transport, store and mill
foodcrops. It is also expected that the continued support of MDB and PPMB
under the MOA component will improve the capacity of Government to properly
analyze a range of important policy issues and improve project preparation
and monitoring.
70.       The quantifiable economic benefits from the NMC investments would
come from reduction in storage losses resulting in larger quantities of
crops, both for domestic consumption, and, if NMC continues to purchase other
crops, for export. There would also be a larger supply of milled maize
available for domestic consumption from expansion in milling capacity and



- 21 -
rehabilitation of existing facilities. It is estimated that by 1985/86 the
quantities saved through the reduction in storage losses would represent about
6%, 12% and 15% of total estimated domestic production of maize, rice and
wheat, respectively. The project benefits would accrue to both producers and
consumers of crops marketed by NMC, from improved marketing services and
reduced margins between producer and consumer prices.
71.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 38% for the entire
project (19% for new storage; 41% for storage rehabilitation; 140% for
tarpaulins; and 20% for milling). The high rate of return reflects the large
benefits expected from reductions in losses on all crops as a result of
improvement in management and operating practices. The rate of return on the
milling component should be regarded as the lower limit, as it depends on the
economic value attached to the milling, which is difficult to estimate and
has been estimated conservatively. Sensitivity analysis shows that a 20%
reduction in benefits or increase in costs would lower the rate of return to
about 31%, and if both occurred simultaneously, the rate of return would drop
to about 26%. No negative environmental effects from this project are expected.
72.       One risk of the project is that policies affecting NMC's finances
and scope of operations would not be changed sufficiently to reverse NMC's
financial losses. As noted above, it is expected that the FAP will provide a
framework for dealing with this risk. A second risk of the project is that
NMC's management and technical practices might not improve significantly,
which would be a function of the scope and complexity of NMC's operations and
associated problems. Although technical assistance and training have been
provided, the project should be seen as the first phase of a long term program
to deal with these problems. Finally, there is the risk that implementation
of the construction program, and especially of the rehabilitation component,
would lag behind schedule. This would be the result both of management
difficulties within NMC and of the scattered and piecemeal nature of the
rehabilitation. The risk has been reduced by the provision of substantial
technical assistance and by providing funds through the PPF which will permit
early recruitment of technical assistance and an early start to the design
work for the rehabilitation and construction.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and NMC and the recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 22 -
74.       Features of the draft Development Credit and Project Agreement of
special interest are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                by Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
April 15, 1980



- 23-                                                     Annex I
?&as t Of 6
TABLE 3
TANZANIA - SOC'AL 'MICAOC0S OATA SNiEE7
'AN   7,.            if 7F~3EISB.C3I ;20U?S (.613200.'D   AOlSE
LAsD AREA (2HOUS&S3D SQ. E  ?                                                    -  0S1.) 7AZA  oS.IoA.., - 
W7SAL             9"M. I                                                        E        SAME 1    SECa 4rasd.
ACIICULtURL       510. L                                 !IT RECENT       GEOGRAPSIC    34COME        i2COfl
t 960  /b    !970  b ESl2.A2E          REGION SZ lO   5010? rd    rO0Up ,e
024p ?ER CAP'TA (0s S)                   70.3       120.0      230.0            306.1       109.6       .67.5
4ERGT CONSL4'TION ?SR CAPITA1
(IOG&A8S OF COAL EOGIV.LS)            41.0         S2.0      68.0              30.6       83.9        262. 1
pFP,Aots AND V1ZA-.AL STATlSTICS
FoPULA:Oti, mID-TS&A (51fLIONS)       LO.12        13.3       16.4
OUa6 ?OFULArlo* (?PCET Or r0-.AL)  4.3              6.9        9.2             i7.1        i6.2        24.6
POFULAUON P3OJECTIONS
POFPOtZI0I a TEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          32.0
STATlONART POPUIAMON 0 (`fLL7.L0NS)                        94.0
TEAR STATIONAR! POFOLATION  ES UAC=D                     2145
POPULATION DENS'rT
PER SQ. 102.                        11.0         .4.0       17.0             L6.        '.9.4.       .5.3
?3  SQ. Qt. AGZZCOLI=U. LAND        21.0         26.0       32.0             50.a      252.0        i4i.3
POPU3lATEOt AGE STRUCTORe (PRCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           46.4         86..5     46.0              44.I       43.1         45.2
15-64 Y1S.                           51.0         51.1      51.0             52.9        53.2         51.9
65  1S5. A.D ABOVE                    2.6          2.4       3.0               2.8         3.0         2.d
POPtIlACtON GROWM 2AZE (PRCENT)
TOTAL                                2.2          2.7        3.0              2.7         2.14        2.7
URS.N2-  5.0                                      6.3       a.5               5.7        4.6          4.3
CRUDE 31rTr RArE (ER THOUSAN4D)       47.0         47.0       46.0             .6.53       42.'         39.4
CRUDE DLiAd RATE (MR  TO4U0SAND)      22.0         19.0       16.0             17.2  1,5.9             !1.7
cROSS REPROIDUCTION L6rE                ..          3.a        3. 2             3.1         2.9          2. 7
FAXILY ?LA710NG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (ThOUSADS)          ..           ..      93.6
USERS (P?1tCVr OF OARRIED   W04fN)    ..           ..        ..               ..        12.2         13.2
FOOD AYD NUTRITION
=tEX OF FOOD ?.ODUCTION
?. CAJTA (1969-71-100)              95.3        104.0      93.0              94.3      9s.2          99.6
PSP CAPITA SUPPL' Of
CALORIES QERCCENT OF
3EQUIRSE3DTS)                     69.0         68.0      36.0             a9.5        93.3         94.7
PROTEINS (GRXS PER DAY)             42.0         43.0      L7.1              55.a       52.1         54.3
Or WEICa AnIbL AND wPLSE          22.3Lh       23.0      20.0              17.9       13.6         17.4
CHILD (ACMS 1) MORTALITY RiT          22.0         25.0       20.0             22.3        18.5         11.4
1EALT'H
LOPE  RXPECTANCT AT 3R1S (TEARS)    42.0           47.0       51.0             47.0       19.3         54 7
1N?J7R 0 AoRTLlOYT kATE (PER
IHOUSAND)                               ..        I55.0/    125.0                ..       :05.4        sa..
ACCESS TO SA!E VArrR (PVERCENT Of
npO?TlON )
TOTAL                                            L i 3.0   39.0       2      0.3        16.1         34. 4
UR.BAN                                ..         6L.0       36.0             53.9        58.5        57.9
RURAL                                             9.0       36.0             10.1I       1. L        21.2
ACCESS sO 2eZUTA DISPOSA-L (PERCE
OF ?OPULATION)
-OTAL                                                       17.0             22.5        16.0   a 1.?.
URBAN                --               .            ..       38.0            62.5        65.1         71.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..       14.0             13.9         3.5        '7.7
0PPAT:Om PER PST-ICCLAS            1C100.0/t   Z0677.3   16490.0/1          17424.7    11396.4       6799.
?OFCtXII0t4 PD. .?_R .YU.SYG 0 ?ON  33c0.0/i,   4641.0    3300. i1           2506.6     5552.'       1522.1i
POPULATION ?ER 9OSPITAL 3?D
CTTAL                              575-0Li      664.0         .             502.3     1417.1        726.5
U3RAN                                 ..           ..        ..             701.S      197.3        272.7
IURAL                                 ..           ..        ..           L403.6      2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS ?E  HYOS?PTAL SED            ..           ..         .              23.4       14.8         27.5
60050240
AVERA5E SIZZ Of -cusEHaLD
-)TAL                                             i-44-9                                 5. 3         5- 4r
RSA.N                                             3.2t       ..              .9           .9          5. 1
?URAL                                  *          4.-ii     5.3               5.33       5            5.5
AVE9ACG  :,SER OF PERMSONS ?ER RCO0
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..
M09AN                                 ..           ..         ..
ACCESS .O ELECERICI-T '?ERCENT
F   ".UL.INGS)
=-AL                                  ..           ..         ..                         2s."5 s.
sLRAL                                 .      .          ,.            ..            ..                3.9



- 24 -
Annex I
page 2 of 6
TASLZ 3A
_ ANA2NIA - SOCt.AL  N!:D:CATORS 3ATA s2  .
'ANZAKfIA                        - 't05   zc!YSr tStMAT-
SAt:E M       A.'      NEXT MICHSP
MOST RECZNT      CDOG3A.PH7C    UNCCE          24COtC
L960 /b      1970 lb ZStIIATZ /b         REC;ON /c   GROUP /d    GROP? /a
CDUCATtON
ADJUSTED  MOLLSENT U7I1OS
FRIMAAY:      TOTAL                  28.0          38.0       70.0             59.0         o3.3         d2.7
MALE                   37.0         46.0        79.0             64.2         79.1         87.3
FtQALE                 20.0         30.0       60.0              44.2        4.8. 4        75.8
SECO.NDARY:   TCtA:.                  2.0           3.0        3.0               9.0        16.7         21.4
MALE                    2.0           4.0        5.0              12.0        22.1         33.0
FEMLZY                  1.0          2.0        2.0               4.4         10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL E.NPOL. (8 07 SECONDARZ)  23.0              ..         ..               7.0         5.6           9.8
PJ?I-7-TZAclKEa RATIO
?R1tARY                              45.0          56.3       50.0             42.2         41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                            20.0          19.0       20.3              22.9        21.7         23.4
ADrLT LITERACY RATE (?'RC!YT)            9.5/i       28.1/q    66.0               20.8        31.2          54.0
CONSUFI?TTON
?ASSE2cER CARS ?EE IaOUSANO
POPLATION                             3.0           2.5        2.8               4.0         2.8          9.3
RAntO RECEIVEiRS 7! MHOUSASNO
POPULATION                            2.0          11.0       19.0             64.3         27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS 7!! THOUSAIO
POPULATION                              .           0.3         ..               2.9         2.4         13.5
YEwSPA?X  ("oAZLY CZNEA.L
nmRSTr") C-ACt7LAT'ON P?R
TIHOUSAND POPULATION                     3.0          5.0        4.5               5.6         5.3          18.3
CMEMA ANNUAL ATTEXDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5                ..        0.2               0.4          1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LIBOR FORCE (-tOUSA.NDSI       4578.0        5769.0    6488.0
FVALZ  (PERCENT)                     37.1          36.6       36.3              31.9        24.8         29.2
ACRICULTU"  (PERCENT)                89.3          86.0       84.0              77.6        69.4         62.7
I?.OUSTB0 1?  CENTY                   3.85.0                   6.0               7.9        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION kAT! (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   4A. 7        43.5       42.2              40.8        36.9          37. 1
MALE                                    56.9         55.7       56.3              53.3        52.4          48.8
7FiAI2                                  32.3         31.5       30.3              25.6        18.0          20.4
ECONOMIC DE7PEM-D1CY RATIO                 1.1          1.1         1.2              1.2          .2           l.4
INCOME OtSTRI3SZON
?ERCEN-1 OF PRIVATL INCOME
RECEIVED 3Y
HICJPEST 3 PERCENT OF EdOUSEHOLDS      ..          33.5         ..                ..          ..          15.2
RICHEST 2O ?PRCENr  07 ACUSEICLDS    .,            63.3         ,-. ,.                        ,,         4.2
LOWESL ZO ?ERC!Nt OF ROUSERCLDS        ..           2.3         ..                ..          .           6.3
LOwEST 40 P?ERCL T OF ROOUSECOLDS      ..           7.8         .                 .,          .           16.3
POVER't 7ARCET 5RO[IPS
E0T- ATE3 A3SOLL7E ?OVER9Sy `-0COt
LEVEL (US3 PER CAPITA)
CR-AN                                   .,           ..      117.0             187.6        99.2        241.3
1L'.9  ..    ..       d9.0            6%.8          78.9        136.6
-St2'A-ED RRLAITE ?E0'-" INCOXKE
LVEL ($ss PER WAPITA)
RI AN                                  ..           ..       97.0             138.4        91 .9       179.7
LR'AL                                   ..           ..       61.0              71.0        54.5        103.7
EST'.AELED POPULATION 3ELOZW ARSLUTE
POVERTY INCOME L-EVEL (PERCET)
!'RPAN                                 ..            ..       25.0              34.5         .           2i4.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..       85.0              48.7        53.9         37.3
Noc a'.allable
.Noc applicable.
'a    -he adjuaced group averages for each indicacor are paoula:tona-weighted geonecri:  means. excl,ding -he e-x:reme
;1lues 'f -he  ndac,a c-   d _r4e .ast -uace   zo-sry Ln a=acP  gro.g.  Coverage of z*,ntLes  a=,on%g :le
lndicacors depends oo availaolit7 of daca aad 's r,oc unlforz.
lb    Ualess otherwise noted, data  ror 1960 refer to any  a-ar ietween .959 and !961; fir :370, zec.een 1969
ad 1971; and for Most Recene Ss--nace,  eueere  1971 and .977.
'c    AdrIra Oou5 h of Sanara;   /d  Lov :.crae (S290 or less oer caoi:a, 1975);   'e  a_er 1t1dle lacoce
(25'1-550 ;er zspita :97j); 'f         1ailana  anzaarla;    aj  .967;    h   361;: .962;                     les-
raed, rtq: all vractice ia the zo,ocry.
Mt3sc RZceat _srt Lce of GuNP ier zaoia is for .978.
AguLst. 1979



-25-
CT lr.      !O1  C   D IOCIA                                                            Page   3    of   6
0.0..:   ~lOlftooh lbOo 40.c0  -  draw  ftol  -_ns   ao-aooIl  7.06.4dtha =I ..chd co60s ad rdliobt., LI aOaoad ab. 4. o.od lb.,  bh. say no  0. 1.0.-
oatlc.ly Imr,atohi  0s0oa  of  0. 1.06 of oo.st.oiAdt t.itfo                      n   olcda  -.a.  by dtffarn   ooso?oOt  oo. .otogO   tc.o.  Th. data aO.. oan0L-a..
,ooc   0  0.0. ntdatO  ofnlod         a Ido   tr=a   ad  O-.- - arOt-  a.rtaia       .   Otfoo             ba...   -cttt.
mx   dlotodorooo .ro.a  tor oah Li.0 c040   an  vdpa.alaoana          td4 facri. nas,  -Icb              g to oh. crE     o.I-. af to taodtoa.dcr and CM. 0 t
itlol 4141 (IbocotOd  a4. 0.)  it E.*-I.-  -dcoo ba did                                                     nl hod                 L oa.  t . and  isal-    It1ts    00
700.1 -   t.a.1 .orfaoa a.. oorlit. 1.`  sttottln           ot,.bn    a    ua)8040b   c1   oaop. tl.                                             tofh.ialbd
-  sao..oP      a9i acaiaalao.   oa1ad  S.9ln.cik.  ap000ad   t.taoc                                                                         p dao.. rn cxio.  n   x
-~ 0 Prd-d?A   CIII   C-0.9   a  x.pto arlscaa   otoan   tr x1tjioas.-           .            0.    en    a  poa.tl ultof Ifad byl          a . hL icim a  boa *dp~by 0 a cals  'ST
caaaaado  .-   -csstla        O.O  .0 46.t1d fia   All.. (1971-77 haala;              alatax, soar.. nIdnlf..  C.0.)  Llah off at 1a-"aflat  aftcdddt1pd -=
1960, 1070. -d 1977 tot.-tois   a IlatCdtab   ota.cl   aI-LLllaa
Adt.aaan  co  haolol  a   T-70.1 cdbb   at a.L.tat. od at 400045
00001  COOOIOqI00 00  CAPI:A -Ana        -ddv"1a   at OmoocI  nagy.                        I a   0IUd.a4110   by to. at r. oi had..
loaloa  Isjalc. Pooo-1atn    hoot         - a  oat hpa-,  -I-.a. =4  Id-
th.-icaatoot)1.o kilagtn   of c.-I oq .                  rt  a  -prt.A.                 wusi5I
ottlpoooaolo. al-oto  inllloc, -  .. o   101  1; if  -a  r,ilOOla.               an  th"r t.ob   -I...  A bo.. dar at Iodga  nay a, nay co  ho Lsld.d 
0 too .0-7000oatfnaoa; 100, 1970. an  907   at,                           thabo.  ta      for aaoloca    .a70a.00ozaoa1dtfls   di 100.-
uttroOltOo ttto    f total) - IOtl  of Moa  to total 0.010d1.  -aty.
toc; oLflcco   lal.l.,-a  o  gx.- Alt.  ddy  Iftt 0001.t                                0oaa       cr of;                                    rb-t atr- O.l    t.. ad  tota   - A-raro..a
of data 8.1                                                                                     `-nOO.co  t oaaor to    oL    000   a    0.1  .. POolt-cn.o:s.
d-iaco   Otlt,                                                                              il.a   opattl.0n,10    alda oa-ntaf  .oanss  Ac
?.   o.  id- l-ytt   pdpolaCios par ajoota kilancta  (150Ul at...a)                     o     .dP-tt..
of to tal at.a.                                   tacoaa to *1.cotOatty  I ootcoot of Oanlltoaol - tocol. orhso, ad  natTl- -
Porolatoc aroxt rota  ootO.O . ..total. 00  orbOs - Canooxod ana..                  oatyoto -2.    00.   .0I         tct          T Io and f-.al   acr1lsat  ot al aa..
orot .ot.  fc 1o sod otb.a al-a   op1bdo At15-4.a   I  ptosay 1-a1.. .... I.taaoto   of  -ap-oto-ly V,i-ay ..foO-OIZI
C-d.Olt  tc b      (oat11  tb,h ad - - 50.0.  11.  bIrth. Pat tOO-A.ad                         dhtffto-   l-ath. of priotty  -dotto; foo ..cntot                 th a-lo   ..nta *at
ol-atprlato    o-ota  atoaaotaodn   019tatcos  aarllm    my   acd 100 P.t..-.  iba    n  Poila  coo  "1.1.o
00at  1.at  tt4 .0.0 a70                    0  otna   tt-   aoI.  a                         Al=    b   07.ta  .~.oa..
Coodo 0000 tat   oar tt,..aod(- Al.-a  40.0Pa  tloao   of sod-                     Soooo,oho   ttlco    .1        oota   boto; aCoOt  40
oa.o?  opol.cas: to-,oatatboitc IC  .otoao   onIot to 1960 .tt 170 Doonoac_ aat L.ac.0    Y.-o  of aoptovd-   OratylttcI,ttO; P-0
C,aotd.,lcmma rtae - A-'ta.  o.tn    f4aOoo    .    till b`sat                           oo.-II  of 12 to 17  atof ajo; Cota*acochot  000 A-Ccorly
to not cars.,00000000ciapond11 i ct   p.rttn.  pttat .4o                             ddcInda_d.      j
aooofi:  .tOOlt,  oto.  tooIly. 01   -otott  oaAacIng  LA 19 "C.                  VOCotoon  .oolso   ooto  of 7tto                _y   - Oatloallntltuoas  10-
917, *04 -d11970                                                                            data  ooooscd1l. lnd-artal  ato0t   t0a   60  OPr... lntapos 0y
tooolo  laoot"   - ooooooto.aoaool(ttooaaada)     0=0.1thtl -                  ot 00  dPt.%-cpt Of  -ooootty 1is*t tOto0_
q-.oot  of b10r0.oIt I l,  ..rta                                                          ii?oaf.   f  aIs. al   Oool.lth.rtat  -,0 rtAd o.Ocadatr -  otal scutasO     dcra1lad 10
01000 I rt      tt                                                                           Pr1.;a and  ostt   L.1. tttdt  7   sat   of casabar  I  tnt Iotto
lattl  tlaot,rn-oars   ootcn   of ntrlodocato   Y lotddAot.  of                   aP.04t.g  lo-Ia..
attoc    -a  oi ohild-t, r... i.S    (1-*yat)06   t  birtho-ostto1                     Ad,t,,-    ovtao(.rot   - Litar.t.  d4010. (aLIA to Iod"  ad  -i.)001
4.00   calnt-a               so        g    ..                                         "a.I,aogaattta  o                  dt ppo..Ids ad 153 Y---O  -Aon
lno   f 0 0.0rtota    o    ot    9717- 1.40    Ostof pot                               t.a o   c.at. (cot th.o..aod ,ooLat ) -  000a   oao o.aaid  otC.t octa
000. .r.y.1   ptt    IOa   of-.1to  co.11Abttloo             -              -it.          .dtO.a   1-.0     (P. O t 000 .....to   aald A   LasITa. b.f0o  m                   -di.o
1rO.    coiabl    L. Cpplo        ..p ILatoo   .aOc  Ototla. d  t     1.0.     .  od,r-no.o   oLttai... .pblc ttt0a*   of.-ro.a If. Ima.   ..Z.d ,ala.a
qmaatttta   tad  10 looptoaao   an   0.0 .. 00larbllo                       t              tlc:40   or oaoo  Tnaoa ddt 00   actal                       tn  .0    o tlaa
.01 000010  anYd bdttho ccoaL-aoisf  C.'ten. .1 .oatr..                   od             4V  Mornto(             tbo.....d  Toolttj-V ?ttOor.t for 00...400*0 00 &t0rt
oottho. ao sa  catd.l.atb,otl-  of po.W ..a.  act a..l.a..  10 P.r-                    Pbllo    tth0.0.004 0PtlA00100;  Ta.ao   acti.    V   -                 -100   10 to_
tacotot   tato a  ona.ocod  1,1                                                       0LA0  ot  to In. 000.  r.ol.trc.ao  of TV cooa oc  L.  ito.-
tootaot   ao;1o  f-tooo   nn   otdt    '0001   .Ca o  of pdt                         Oooatoco   :ttoat.0    rs -ltoostd ovlta    - Sb-. an    -.tagcI.                     ut
0010   t   .00901  o   otp   dy      OtatPlytfoto  aot Ycifo1.4f-                        CaofdlyfaOL it-tot                                 d.Ootpt   lfisdd  Ad A ppoOisdlI0  Ot11-
o nitosoa.llan.   of60   t.-  of-tta  pooxat. pat tal Add .10 gra                      .d.ly I I              Ic0.001.000 loo  tln. . a ak.
of01 ,..ad,ooola  0O-ota, of.    Ih  0tn   ocoobld 60%V-OsL-  P000                 710...aoaco  Ptotda             : coo 000 ... .a...00. La.sO  an to- otmat of 010.00
That  Otatott  ctobo_   tha  thoo of 75 iran  of total P-ooisadd                       000   oiso  ta  7t0  100104.04g s..aot  ttoo-J.is    -.    nd ail.
73 cr0.  oi .0051 70000-  00a              g.O tot tht arId. pOap ..d hy                     -ba..
100I 10 of. 700.0  tIOlt 0004   o-n.
doidOtOOOtt  0000  rt 0.01ad   ,0.-Prco  .olY .f fad                              DqLODO1N
datltod tIe   0 t1.01. 04 P-lO   is am-  P.t, y                                          Co. aa    ot  (lihO-A.04     - Uddoalo.117 cool.  P--05. t-..l.dl     otnod
ChIld  OOsa 0.) sorolIty  oto  (.r tc.--dtot   A-1a dascb. p.t Cait                   foo-a  AsS  ac-oy.7.  coo  -.1l4iso  I.cstr            p004t..  Ca..Ot101
00d La a;. S000 -o -ydd-, to otil14-  Ls t01. AS. SroV,                                     fla. it oat-ot l.nttla   000  -a -ac...l..
Pea. (troct  -  onla  aho  f000  asOtOotat  of total lobtofto
0HUM                                                                                         .tclOt   orat      abofr,i   ott  forsacry, 0b=0.4 ad    d fIchOnt
'-11, .zocOO,t .... t.b  r   nto        A' 10..0 0.00 of yata of lIlao   00004   of  ototl 0.60? fItI.
ranctlOg COttOl atOLt tOryot   0V50400  081g I.c 1960. 1970,                                        L'"'t rttol-  00  700    0000.....oat.   atfcatt             a
I0100        . 4t,  ot    ,oo Odtaoad       ag 0 .00. of 1. t.00   -.040         AoooooO    o.otoO       a.,01. at f_.I.o     - TotAl.  -... ad
Acoto. to 0100.0.?  (o.cnO  of co,.,Lat )       total. ot0.adttl                       b,ta    l. a4)oata  POtOttcipd 5 toot. r.floidc                  ttfl*
Otct  oi 9001.  .10.... 00.0.  0=rral  01.01 rT-os.I  Iooa  0                                 toxrof tho   aooa.  and 10."  010 Oc-04.
W.O sa.?.  otapiY (ioc.441.. orad oofs  OOt   00  totttd  WI00                           f..f..    d.os n T.rtio  - 0t.00   of P.Opolat     -d.t 15 ad 65 an  o.-: to
IsOttncd00000   Ad t-t: loon V.500.0.  00r.haL".  "pIgs.'                          00. L*0    fo.-  10. 040 sOp  Of 13-to  700..
tot, lO  otoao   ft.. ahoot.  tt 0 - A.a,ao   as 00b i 0n 1  r                 ?.roaotOOo of             1--a.  on   (bot  10 -.h. and kind) 't-tat    by rich-,t 5
ocoablo  -o. of tot  oot. t  rura  =ot  rotoooohl  Acooao  mId4                              P00000. 0001 i prac.b  p.....x 20 pr.-t0.  -d at                  pd 7500 0 oS 0 ,00
Ldlply tht 100 baaortoo  iot   of 0. b-h.1Lad 00.00 b-t  tO                                  of aosal
:p.bd od1:vOtOOOtOlAt  Ott  of tho day 10 fooO.afl to.lA             l
000*0.0000                                                                               P000! TAllfl 11007
6000.0 oaxotoaa 0.0001 ( l-000   of ooo ti,ooo     - totol. orbo.0.4                   talltoo   aaclo         -rott  1.0= 10.01O    ...10   0    -0.0*) - -b-h acd too1 -
N-", 0.sfo t   .01.101  0_0..at    tl)fOtb  000.00                                         ".000100  P-vTty lcn   1-01 Ia thbat IocLn   Intl Obco- AOo    a  lOO.n
0100.0.. ... P5000-000   of 05010 trpoOt    taltoO.00..                                      -t,rlOlotlyVatoo  fiat 710.              Woaa   o-food  Osqltt 1   .
dioot P.."!       btocI  ..Ollo-oto    mad      iOol.00  0? 00000                             fft-oo
000a05050  Of O*OOOtOtO   tt O000VOOt ataOa-6000    TCyoc                 fottlacdroo-t   roal    00                - oa  (7705s .o ata(-a tAn  total
Poc1a000  00   000    .00        O..t.   00.  byid             "AoMn  of                       7001    f;ooslo             ra    a  total) 000t ara.1MI  aho1lO-  Pat?   o
P-loioti otI           Z---an... Sotot.  -0..0, P-0.01.  cornd.,.4                            rtala00'010a0    0401
00c.".1  OtloA 0   Proj*.tbn ift           ttn..-o



r :                                          r>5'            rw       rt00 '-    -t 'o                 *p 0-0                -      -.     3|D
r r C re,C _ GC   =   , Rr       !-       r-. 0t _t    crcocw r-      ^                      -C-       
e ,r@    Fec>    S=_c     C  r              cCt    z    C   51,   a,
E~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-0 =                                                                     .t.-.  -Ct4t<_fs9_=_-=,A                    tcXeN_eco 7
-tO .,',  ot o -p                                                  cr  --c   rt          _0                     C                  Jno~      4Ce_V
r             -- U0 R,t s00 '                          e CS-nU~A6D               
C;             =0 r.                                           0t r  rgA                             0r
#.                                                       001 C  .0C=,                                                   .         C
o                                                          9                                          -                 07
4 * * ; ~oOt   r0                                                  co|OCor            V  $>s      0 0  _  _ o  00 0-o
0 ~       ~        1 00                 _ _                           oo.                            
'             0001 ; _ _   -   _        _       '    _v     evc- _  0, '
r                                                                             72 0r<g~Lt-f   FFF0Fo000 r       tc00eZS tes ;_    <
Gt ~   ~     ~     ~     ' _. _I  v    C     ru    s- _-      iiee       r. _.    _ v                                        v
r0   00   _     .                  '0     soc                                           ;o_w;       
.~~~~~CO ,w                                                                                                                                             t
~~     z>~~. -v o .7            =o_I                                     V.i _.s                            Ot~   _c-  i0-0   V.    t G5 CV 
C~ ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~ 00 0  Co'0                         -     Zv -       Fr              OOr0r   Otr g C o     0   
O~ ~~~~~~~~~~ 00-000   000.-.   _IV                         MoC            00oOVC-.000-o _C
0.0   0   0c00    0000    00                    00.0c 0        cOo St i_000  ii00r0c 00c0c50
*   .   .~    .       .  ,    .                            C
- > r          o                                  0    j  .  ry j
0   00   COo  000000    0000                      V I 0C
10 0 0 C 0 V     0000 _ O         lG



Annex I
TANZANIA                                                                  Page 5 of 6
Bfalonce of Payments and External Assistance
(Mtllion US$)
Actual                                        Preliminary             Projection
1972        19 73       1974        1975       1976         1977        1978        1979        1980        1985         1990
A.  Siamnarv of Balance of Payments
1.  Exports (incl. NFS)                                       384.3       434.6       476.0       4b7.0       632.1       686.3       613.9       672.0       765.2      1289.4       2222.0
2.  Imports (incl. NFS)                                       466.1       546.8       779.8       793.8       697.1       802.4      1210.7      1155.3      1353.2      2170.2       3335.5
3.  Resource Balance                                          -81.1      -112.2      -303.8      -326.8       -65.0      -116.1      -596.8      -483.3      -588.0      -880.8    -1113.6
4.  Net Factor Service Incore                                  -5.9         7.4        -5.2        -7.3        21.5       -18.7       -24.6       -47.5       -66.5      -137.0       -266.8
1.  Net Interest Payments of which:                         3.2        11.2         8.9        -3.1      -17.9        -16.4       -15.8       -37.8       -55.9      -119.8      -239.2
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans)                   (-11.1      (-12.5)    (-13.6)    (-16.2)    (-19.5)    (-22.1)    (-24.7)    (-27.8)    (-35.0)   (-121.8)   (-250.2)
2.  Direct Investment Income
3.  Workers Remittance (Net)                              -9.1       -18.6       -14.1        -4.2        -3.6         -2.3        -8.8        -9.7       -10.6       -17.1       -27.6
4.  Other Factor Service laicome (Net)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                                    -4.2         5.0        45.2        92.9        55.4       116.1       175.0       195.0       218.4        384.9       678.3
6.  Balanice on Current Accounit                              -91.9      -114.6      -263.8      -241.2       -31.1       -18.7      -446.4      -335.8      -436.1       -632.8      -702.0
7.  Private Direct Inivestment                                  0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         5.0         5.4         5.7          6.1         8.6        12.0
8.  Capital Grants                                             14.0        18.6         6.5        34.9         2.9        13.9         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Public M & LY Loans
9.  Disbursements 1/                                          109.5       113.6       161.3       249.5       122.4       177.8       173.2       210.5                '1
10.  Amortization 17                                           -34.2       -23.7       -18.8       -18.0       -21.9       -26.4       -26.8       -54.8
11.  Net Disbursements 1/                                       75.3        89.9       142.5       231.5       100.5       151.4       146.4       155.8
12.  Use of IMF Resources                                        0.0         0.0        60.3        25.2        23.7         8.8        17.0        30.0
13.  Short-term Capital Transactions                             7.2       -17.9         7.5        -5.1       -38.3        35.1        60.0       120.0
14.  Capital Transactions. n.e..                                54.8        49.0       -47.4       -30.1       -10.8       -26.0         0.0         0.0
15.  Ciange in Reserves (- - inerease)                         -59.4       -25.0        94.4       -15.2       -46.9      -169.5       229.0         24.3
B.  Grants anid Loans Comnitment
1.  official Grants 2/                                          9.8        23.6        51.1       127.8       119.0       130.0       200.0       216.0
2,  Public M & LT Loans                                        65.4       107.1       260.4       151.8       194.1       197.3       225.3       269.9
2.1  IhRD                                                   -           -          65.0       30.0         37.0        53.0        25.0        66.0
2.2  IDA                                                   10.8        22.6        61.2        10.0        52.0        49.2        73.5        63.0
2.3  Other Multilateral                                     3.3         1.8         7.1        18.0        10.8        33.5        27.6        18.2
2.4  Governments. of which:                                47.1        82.8       127.1        93.7        82.7        61.3        98.3        30.0
Centrally planned economies                         4.9         3.0        76.5         5.4         -           -           2.6         -
2.5  Suppliers                                              -           -           -           -           -           -           -          80.0
2.6  Financial Institutions.                                4.2         -           -           -          11.7         0.3         -          10.0
2.7  Bonds
2.8  Public Loans, n.e.i. 3/                                -           -           -           -           -           -           -           2.8
3.  Other M & LT Loans (wbere availabLe)                       26.4        18.6         5.6         2.9         6.0         -           -
C. Memorandum Items
1.  Grant Elementt of rIrotal Coumitments                      49.2        83.4        63.1        56.4        66.6        56.8        45.5         32.8
Average Interest                                            3.6         0.6         2.3         3.0         2.2         3.2         4.5         5.4
3.  Average Maturity (Years)                                   28.1        47.8        32.2        31.9        38.8        35.1         32.8        25.5
/ Inciludes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1979-1990) on blend Bank/IDA terms.
2/ Excludes technical assistance graLnts.                                                                                                            NAI DA
3/ Represeutas eotuitments to cover projected balance of payments deficit.                                                                           January 2, 1980



Antiex I
TANZANIA                              Page 6 of 6
DebtL  and Grcditwrthil`eua
Actual
19~~72      1973         3974         1975        196          1977         1978
A.  M,dilu  aed l.onn-Tere- Debt (D1 sbubred onily)
(US $ Million)
1.  Total Debt wutstaniding (DOD: Exd of Period)                 441.7        557.1        728.3       917.1       1029.2      1123.4       1213.1
2.  including Ulndi8bursed                                       835.5        987.3       1280.5      1359.0       1555.9       1649.3      1806.4
3.  Public Debt Service                                           43.3         39.3         32.4        34.1         41.6         48.4        49.6
3.1  Interest                                                     11.1         12.3         13.6         16.2        19.5         22.1         24.7
4.  Other M & Lt Debt Service                                       ..           ..          ..           ..           ..
8.  Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                             11.3         9.3          6.8          7.3         6.6          7.1          7.8
2.  Debt Servica/GDP                                                2.8         2.1          1.4          1.3         1.5          1.4          1.1
3.  Public Debt Service/Covernruent Reve-ue                       14.7         10.3          6.6          6.4         7.6          7.0          5.8
C.  Ter s
1.  Interest on 'Total DOD/fotal DOD                                2.5         2.2          1.9          1.8         1.9          2.0          2.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                   9.8          7.1          4.4          3.7         4.0          4.3          4.1
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & I.T Debt
1.  (;ross DIsb.rseaents/Iup.orCa (imdcl. NFS)                    23.5         20.8         20.7        31.4         17.6         22.2         14.5
2.  Net '1ransiex/Imports (iucl. NMS)                             16.2 8       78                        29.2           4 
3.  Net 'iYransfer/Cross Disbursements                            68.      .                            92.8
E. Yxjea9nre
1.  1URD Disbursuviur ts/Cross votal Disbursements                16.9         19.1         10.4        21.0         14.0         17.2         17.8
2.  u1ank Group bisburseueuntashross 'rotal UiSburselaenta    19.4             21.8         14.0         28.2        37.2         37.8         31.6
3.  181R  DOD/total Di)U                                           12.2        13.4         12.4         15.4        15.1         16.3         17.3
4.  Banl Group DOD/Total DO1                                     23.1         23.8         21.1         24.2        25.7         29.3         31.3
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                          10.2         15.3         20.4        26.4         34.1         33.1         40.5
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                    11.1         16.3         22.5        28.4         36.5         35.5         43.5
Outstanding December 31, 1978
Amount               Percenit
(US $ Mill ion)
.  !teru:l-1 Decbt (Dtsbursed Only)
1.  IBRD1                                                                      209.9                      17.3
2.  Bank Group                                                                 379.2                      31.3
3.  Other Multilateral                                                          61.2                       5.0
4.  Covernoents                                                                714.1                      58.9
of wtich Centrally Plainned Economies                                  317.3                      26.2
5.  Suppliers                                                                   16.5                       1.4
6.  Finianicial  institutiois                                                   18.8                       1.5
7.  Bouds                                                                       20.3                       1.7
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.         1/                                               3.1                       6.3
9.  'Iotal Public M & LT Debt                  1/                             1213.1                     100.0
10.  FoLal Public Debt (incl. undisbursed)-                                    1806.4                     148.9
C.  Debt Profile
1.  total Debt Service 1979-83/ToLal DOD End of 1978                            60.5%
1/  Includes Tanzania's notional share of 40X of FAC debt.                                                                                                            EAIDA
2/  Iqpreselnts DOI) on loans to cover projected balance of payments deficit.                                                                                         January 2, 1980



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF JANUARY 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.          Year  Borrower            Purpose               Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Five loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                 77.2          91.2
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                  10.8      1.1
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Fourth Education                                 10.3      1.8
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                        18.5      2.4
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                           17.5      9.0
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                          6.0      0.2
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                          21.0                    2.7
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                8.5      2.1
507-TA    1974  Tanzania' Highway Maintenance                              10.2      3.1
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                10.0      5.5
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                               9.0                    0.9
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                            10.0      6.1
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                            15.0                    2.3
1172-TA    1975  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                    1.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                              6.0      2.9
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                           18.0    10.7
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                  11.0      7.1
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                     30.0            11.3
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                            7.0                    4.0
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                         9.0      7.9
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                8.0      1.3
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                 15.0                   10.8
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex               11.5             4.3
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                        4.2
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                        7.2      5.7
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                        12.0    11.4
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                         15.0    11.0
1498-TA    1977  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                    7.9
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                 27.5    11.5
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                 14.0    13.8
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                    12.0    11.2
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                   25.0                   24.9
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                 20.0    18.7
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                           14.0    14.0
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                  12.0    12.0
875-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                           30.0    30.0
1650-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper             30.0                   30.0
876-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                    20.5    20.5
1745-TA    1979  TDFL        Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.              11.05                  11.0
1750-TA    1979  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank         25.0-                  25.0
S-24-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port
Engineering                                    2.5    2.5
Total                                                     276.7  41.5   431.7  364.3
of which has been repaid                                 8.2     -      7.6
Total now outstanding                                  268.5  41.5   424.1
Amount sold                           0.1
of which has been repaid           0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                         268.5  41.5   424.1
Total undisbursed                                         125.2  15.6   223.5  364.3
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.
5/   Excludes $15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit being administered by IDA.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA. TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF JANUARY 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours              35.0               0.5
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways              42.4               0.4
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours              26.5               0.9
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                 1.8
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance 15.0                 5.9
Total                                           244.8               9.5
of which has been repaid                     52.9
Total now outstanding                           191.9
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid       24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       191.9
Total undisbursed                                 9.5               9.5
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(AS OF JANUARY 31, 1980)
There are currently 37 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972;  Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved
control over field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all
factories. Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past,
about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabil-
itated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976
survey of the tea industry, additional planting has been carried out and
effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba
area. Recommendations of the survey regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are also
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. In general, progress on the project is improving. The closing date
has been postponed to allow sufficient time for completion of the Mwakaleli
factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. The most serious issue is the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
lack of adequate financial support from the Treasury; this issue was taken up
during the last review and the Tanzania Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
is organizing a meeting between NARCO, the Commissioner for Public Investment
(CPI) and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) to address the issue
of equity contribution. In summary, although progress has been made, major
problems remain and will require continued attention. The closing date of
the Credit has been postponed by 12 months to December 31, 1980 in order to
complete the ranch development program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project continued to show good progress since the appointment
in October 1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure
of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather
than an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruitment of
staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began. Project problems remaining are the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction.  The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; ClosiLng Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is pro-
ceeding well in accordance with the revised completion schedule. Processing
plant and machinery has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment
for the remaining three. The project faces problems with regard to expected
marketed production reaching potential processing capacity. This continued
decline in the marketed production is, however, puzzling in view of the price
increase and the attractive returns per labor day. An intensive analysis of
the cashewnut production issue is to be carried out by the Government agencies
responsible for review of agricultural production in Tanzania. The take over
of the industry by the Cashewnut Authority (CATA) and the consolidation of its
activities are proceeding; its management has improved since the appointment
of a new General Manager last year.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Progress has been made in improving control of materials flow for
civil works, promotion of a coffee production program, labor-intensive road
works, project accounting and disbursement performance, and increasing farmer
demand for inputs. However, project implementation continues to be slow.
Little construction work has taken place over the last five months of wet
season agricultural activities. Trials were planted late in two of the
three districts due to misallocation of project finance vehicles.  Little
action has been taken on procurement. As recommended in the mid-term review
of this project, agreement has been reached on a number of proposed amend-
ments to the legal documents in order to make the project design more flexible.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project work is virtually completed except for purchase of some
vehicles and completion of the sugar survey and the training program. In view
of this, the closing date has been postponed by 12 months. Kilombero Sugar
Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers continues and
is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than expected cane
yields. A new management advisory agreement for a further two years with
emphasis on agriculture will be financed by the Netherlands. Phase III of
the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed shortly. With regard
to the Sugar Development Corporation's request to Treasury to consider KSC's
proposals as to its debt-equity ratio, the Treasury has decided to provide
KSC TSh. 100 million as equity and TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish
sources. The loan will be at an interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years
repayment including 5 years of grace. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is under
preparation and is expected to be signed by the Treasury shortly.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project is progressing at a slower pace than anticipated and
fishing operations are now expected to begin by early 1980. Eight vessels for
the coastal commercial centers are already under construction, and procurement
of engines and fishing gear is in progress. Tender documents for the procure-
ment of steel boats for the Kigoma Commercial Center are being finalized.
The recent outbreaks of cholera at Lake Tanganyika have caused a setback in
Project activities on the Lake, particularly the Ujamaa Village Program, and
steps have been taken to speed up the identification of suitable villages and
the preparation of investment plans.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976: Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm
review of the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 draft pro-
posal for a three year Intensification Phase in six regions where potential
for increasing production exists, extending the project period from July 1979
to June 1982. The project has therefore been redesigned in order to intensify
the project activities during the remaining period. The redesign of the
project has been agreed upon by the Government, BADEA (the co-financier) and
the Association.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The project status deteriorated during 1978. The large scale para-
statal farms have been poorly managed, production is below expectation and
financial prospects are dismal. The ujamaa component proceeds slowly and
the Tanzania Rural Development Banlc is actively investigating alternative
means of assisting village milk production and consumption. The foot and
mouth disease control investigation has commenced. The project will continue
to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, physical progress has
now been satisfactory for the past two years. The nurseries are well stocked
and maintained, and the current planting program on schedule. Progress on
fire protection, road construction and building is satisfactory. Procurement
of equipment needed for the next se!ason is, however, delayed and project
accounts need updating. These are partly due to staffing problems; the
position of financial controller and workshop foreman became vacant as well
as the position of assistant project manager and silviculturist/economist.
Government is approaching bilateral agencies for recruitment assistance.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed except for instal-
lation of the main circuit breaker equipment. Building work at Morogoro is
proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsi-
bilities of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high
bank overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TAT TSh. 29 million
representing the local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition,
TAT has also claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost
incurred by them during 1977-78. TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been
audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The level of regional commitment to the project has been good and
overall project performance is satisfactory; disbursements are on schedule.
However, some delays have been experienced in the delivery of equipment and
vehicles procured under the project, and shortage of trained extension agents
in the Region continues to hamper the crop development component. These
delays should not be over-emphasized since project management has been
effective in getting the project initiated.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31. 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Develop-
ment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable can-
didates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant and
advertisement of the other two have been done.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness - March 5, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
While some of the senior support staff have been recruited, most key
posts remain to be filled, and although good progress has been made in the
livestock, water resource and forestry components, the expected implementation
of an experimental program of agricultural extension has not been initiated.
Future supervision missions will pay particular attention to progress made by
the agricultural extension staff towards improving the extension system. The
effects of the Uganda war are still being felt in the project's area causing
problems for the supplies situation.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA  - Fourth Education Project:  US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2. 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
95%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed to December 31, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated at
about TSh. 109 million, an increase of approximately 5% over the appraisal
estimate of TSh. 104 million. The Government does not foresee any financial
problem in providing the required additional funds. Three Community Education
Centers out of eight have started operating programs for village development,
education and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational Training
Centers are in operation at almost full capacity. The technical assistance
and fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching funds dis-
bursed. Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship component of
the project are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for Village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvement. In fact, housing construction is in line with VMT
training which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment
of over 500 VMTs as Village Managers in January 1978. There are delays in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy experts for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on June 25, 1979. The Ministry of
Labor has appointed a representative to the Project Unit and is working with
the Ministry of Education on a plan for coordinating project implementation.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This credit became effective on August 24, 1979. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruitment of project coordinator is
being finalized and the consultants for the rehabilitation of project lodges
and hotels, have been appointed.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all equip-
ment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, rehabilitation,
regravelling and routine maintenance activities have been seriously affected
by the war in Uganda and by the termination of some expatriate technical
assistance. However, it is necessary to recast the project by amending its
scope to address the problems which have been encountered in its implementa-
tion; these changes will bring the project in line with the Fifth Highway
Project. The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow
for completion of the project and the disbursement. The technical assistance
contract with the consulting firm "ORT" expired in November 1979, and the
Government is now recruiting individual experts to complete the project.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 24 people in post
or approved out of a total of 29. The project is experiencing some problem
with equity contribution for the proposed project transport companies. The
Treasury proposed to provide the balance of the equity contribution for



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
1979/80. The National Transport Coordination (NTC) has submitted a report
to the Treasury regarding the availability and distribution of vehicle spare
parts in recent years. NTC has also commissioned a study of the role and
objective of the National Institute of Transport. The design of the transport
data collection system is progressing well.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Closing Date - December 31. 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. It is a continuation of the
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA) aimed at maintaining the
national trunk road system and will draw upon experience gained during the
previous project.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Ports Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Closing Date -
June 30, 1980
This Credit is not yet effective.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready of occupation. Education facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in the
project are nearing completion. Progress on the lending program administered
by the Tanzania Housing Bank is slow although satisfactory progress is being
made in the implementation of the action program to improve it. Total project
cost is estimated (at current exchange rates) at US$15.9 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million. The closing date has been postponed
by six months to allow for completion of the remaining construction activities.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents although overall implementation progress is slow. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. All
project staff have now been appointed. The Consultants' report on the Land
Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by the Government in January 1978



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
and a pilot test of the new Urban Charge System for cost recovery proposed in
the study was carried out in Morogoro. However, progress in the implementa-
tion of this system in other areas is slow. Disbursements are substantially
behind appraisal estimates. These issues will be reviewed during the next
supervision mission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, con-
tract for exploratory drilling at Mindu Dam site is completed, two contracts
for plant (pumping and treatment) are in the stage of final inspection of
goods prior to shipment to Tanzania, and two construction contracts were
awarded in December 1978 and March 1979. Completion of the water works
expansion is expected in February 1981, 21 months behind schedule, but a
pilot operation is scheduled to commence in November 1980. Project cost is
now estimated at US$27.6 million, 43% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. In December 1978, the Government approved an increase in its contri-
bution to the project to cover the financing gap. Some progress has been made
towards creation of a parastatal national urban water supply authority and
increase in tariff to maintain their levels in real terms at the level exist-
ing in July 1976. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project costs will have to be closely monitored.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts
have been awarded. Project construction is on schedule at all sites. TANESCO
has obtained approval on its tariff increase. Current estimated project cost
is US$97.8 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost
overrun of 28%. This is mainly due to underestimation of the project costs by
the engineering consultants. KfW has already increased its contribution to
the project and SIDA has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its
allocation to cover its proportionate share of the cost overruns. Plans to
make any additional contribution by the Bank to bridge the gap is being
reviewed. It is expected that US$7.0 million from the EEC Special Action
Fund will be allocated to this project.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978: Closing Date - June 30. 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA 1/ - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5, 1980;
Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1980
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all tech-
nical installations are now operating satisfactorily.  The National Textile
Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has
agreed to institute an immediate action program to improve the operating
performance of existing mills.  The project was technically completed in
October 1978 with a savings of abou1L US$1.7 million. In order to utilize this
amount for rehabilitation of the exilsting facilities, which are essential parts
of the project, the Closing Date was postponed by one year to July 1, 1980.
1/   In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support of this
project is being administered by IDA.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project:  US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Total commitments as of September 30, 1979 were US$4.8 million of
which US$4.1 million, US$0.4 million and US$0.3 million were for consultancy
services, training and project unit services, respectively. The procedures
for processing proposals have been streamlined and it is expected that the
pace of commitments and disbursements will be increased.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30. 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7, 1979. Prep-
aration of tender documents are progressing satisfactorily and no delay in
project completion is anticipated.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million Credit and US$30.0 million Loan
of April 6, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan and this credit are not yet effective.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979: Closing Date - December 31. 1983
This loan became effective on November 1, 1979. About 70% of the
loan amount has been committed.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31. 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for thesse project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Director approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance the East African Mediation effort.
This amount, in addition to US$0.5 million provided by UNDP for this purpose,
is expected to cover the total estimated cost of the mediation service.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:  US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have been
completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The slippage
of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement caused
by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of headquarters.
About US$30.7 million of the loan had been disbursed to date. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the countries
concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June! 30, 1979. Some US$9.1 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF JANUARY 31, 1980
Fiscal Year            Obligor            Type of Business      Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing        3.96    0.70    4.66
1978            Highland Soap and          Soap Manufacture    1.38    0.36    1.74
Allied Products Limited
1979            Metal Products Limited   Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                      6.67    1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC            2.71    0.54    3.25
Total Undisbursed                            2.71    0.54    3.25



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
GRAIN STORAGE ANI) MILLING CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the credit      :  30 months
(b)  Project prepared by                   : Government, Consultants
and Association
(c)  First presented to the Association   : July 1977
(d)  Preparation mission                   : January 1978
(e)  Appraisal mission                     : January 1979
(f)  Completion of negotiations               February 1980
(g)  Estimated date of effectiveness          September 1980
II. Special Association Implementation Actions
The Association has approved a PPF advance of US$924,000 to assist in
providing a basis for rapid project start-up.
III. Special Conditions
(a) The detailed program for rehabilitation of NMC's storage and
silo facilities would be furnished to the Association by NMC by
December 31, 1980; it will include an economic analysis of each
facility with estimated costs of about US$100,000 and it will be
implemented as agreed between the Association and NMC (para 53).
(b) For the construction of the new storage facilities in identified
locations, NMC shall prepare and by December 31, 1980, furnish to
the Association a construction program. For the construction of
new storage facilities where locations have not yet been estab-
lished, NMC shall prepare and submit a master plan which includes
a technical, financial and economic justification for each facil-
ity; disbursements on these facilities would not commence until a
satisfactory plan is submitted (para 53).
(c) With respect to the rehabilitation of mills, NMC shall prepare
and furnish to the Association not later than December 31, 1980,
a detailed rehabilitation program (para 53).
(d) It would be a condition of disbursement against civil works that
the Storage and Grain Handling Expert and the Planning and Management
Expert be in post, and against the transport component that the
Transport Manager be appointed (para 53).



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) Within the framework of a Financial Action Program, the Govern-
ment and NMC shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
by June 30, 1982 and thereafter on each June 30, NMC's overdraft
does not exceed 25% of the projected value of its projected annual
crop sales for the following year (para 62).



