ENTS            CRYIDIT NUMBER 1015 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Grain Storage and Milling Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMEN T ASSOCIATION
Dated           h       5, 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1015 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     R  i     1              , 1981, between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) part of the Project will be carried out by the National
Milling Corporation (hereinafter called NMC) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to NMC part of the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(C) by letter dated June 4, 1979, addressed by the Associa-
tion to the Minister of Finance and Planning of the Borrower, the
Association granted an advance to the Borrower totalling $924,000
for the purpose of assisting in the preparation of the Project;
(D) pursuant to the terms of said advance, the aggregate
amount thereof is to be refunded to the Association out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
NMC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2 -
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NMC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepar-
ation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated April 5, 1979, and June 4, 1979,
between the Borrower and the Association;
(c) "SGR" means the Borrower's Strategic Grain Reserve;
(d) "Kilimo" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(e) "MDB" means the Marketing Development Bureau of Kilimo;
and
(f) "PPMB" means the Project Preparation and Monitoring
Bureau of Kilimo.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to forty-three million dollars ($43,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Advance shall automatically be cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1990, and ending
March 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment


﻿-4-
payable on March 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part K of the
Project through Kilimo, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, engi-
neering and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources needed
for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause NMC to carry out Parts A through J of the
Project and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision
promptly as needed, of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NMC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) Except as the Association and Borrower shall agree, the
Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts
A through J of the Project available to NMC in the form of
equity.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause PPMB to: (a) continue
to prepare, supervise and monitor agricultural projects as di-
rected by Kilimo; and (b) prepare and submit annually to the
Association for its review and comment until the completion of the
Project, a detailed work program covering the following twelve


﻿-5-
months, its staffing requirements for such period and any propo-
sals it may have for filling such requirements.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause PPMB to: (a) prepare
and furnish to the Association, not later than December 31, 1981,
for its review and comment, a monitoring and evaluation program
in respect of the Project;
(b) assist in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project
in accordance with the monitoring and evaluation program which
shall have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause MDB: (a) to continue
to carry out agricultural pricing policy analysis and such other
studies as are necessary to improve the Borrower's pricing policy
in the agricultural sector; and
(b) prepare and submit annually to the Association for its
review and comment, until the completion of the Project, a
detailed work program covering the following twelve months, its
staffing requirements for such period and any proposals it may
have for filling such requirements.
Section 3.05. With respect to Part K of the Project: (a)
the Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods; and
(b) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services for Part K of the
Project financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for such Part of the Project until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the vehicles, equipment and office building included
in Part K of the Project, contracts for technical advisory ser-
vices included in said Part, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part K of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in Part K of the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
Part K of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Part K of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of Part K of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish. to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of Part K of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices, the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part K of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out Part K of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to assist NMC to become a financially viable entity.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall review the balance sheet
and related statements prepared by NMC pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the Project Agreement and shall prepare and furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its review and comment not later than December 31,
1982, a plan setting forth actions to be taken by the Borrower to
enable NMC to correct its balance sheet so that it accurately
reflects an appropriate capital structure.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) review the report of
the study to be undertaken by NMC pursuant to Section 5.03 of the
Project Agreement, and (ii) cause NMC to implement any recommenda-
tions deemed necessary for the improvement of NMC's operations.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1981, and each year thereafter:
(a) determine or cause to be determined the nature, size,
and type of crops constituting the SGR;
(b) determine the costs of maintaining such crops in consul-
tation with NMC; and
(c) bear full and direct financial responsibility for
any obligations or costs arising out of the procurement and
storage by NMC of such crops.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall continue to carry out
on an annual basis, an analysis of the impact of the Borrower's
agricultural prices on the finances of NMC.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall review the procurement
plans prepared by NMC pursuant to Section 5.04 of the Project
Agreement and shall, after such review and after making appro-
priate adjustments based on payments made to NMC and profits
realized by NMC in the previous year finance, beginning from the
1983 fiscal year, NMC's net losses as determined in accordance
with the provisions of Sub-section (b) of Section 5.04 of the
Project Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
from time to time all measures required on its part to enable NMC
to carry out its obligations under Section 5.01 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) NMC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of NMC under the Project Agreement;
(b) the organization, powers or responsibilities of NMC
shall have been terminated or altered so as to affect materially
and adversely the carrying out by NMC of its obligations under the
Project Agreement; and
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that NMC will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and NMC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement


﻿-9-
has been duly authorized or ratified by NMC, and is legally
binding upon NMC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date       L4I   ( S7 119  t  , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06 and 4.07 of this Agreement and the provi-
sions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
B y  (3o 4,ov OUe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /t( at~~          /p u.Q eo~
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works
under:
(a) Parts A, B (1),        12,400,000       80%
D, F, G, and I
of the Project
(b) Part B (2) of          4,300,000        80%
the Project
(2) Vehicles and spare          3,000,000        100% of foreign
parts                                       expenditures and
85% of local ex-
penditures
(3) Equipment                   8,000,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local ex-
penditures
(4) Technical assis-            3,000,000        100% of foreign
tance, consultants'                         expenditures and
services, staffing                          85% of local ex-
and overseas staff                          penditures
training
(5) Local training                500,000        85% of local
expenditures


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(6) Assistance to MDB            2,800,000       100%
(7) Assistance to PPMB           2,800,000       100%
(8) Refunding of the              930,000        Amounts due
Project Prepara-                            under Section
tion Advance                                2.02 (b)
(9) Unallocated                  5,270,000
TOTAL       43,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the


﻿- 13 -
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b) expenditures with respect to Category (1) above until
the experts referred to in Section 2.02 (f) and (g) of the Project
Agreement shall have been appointed and shall have taken up
their duties;
(c) in addition to (b) above, expenditures in respect of
Category (1) (b) above until NMC shall have submitted a master
plan satisfactory to the Association in the form and substance
referred to in Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement; and
(d) expenditures with respect to Category (2) above until
the transport manager referred to in Section 2.02 (j) of the
Project Agreement shall have been appointed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 14 -
of the Credit and the Association vsay, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, )ower or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represetts the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to improve the management practices
of NMC and to strengthen its institutional capacity, by improving
its technical, financial and administrative operations and by
upgrading its facilities to improve its handling and processing of
market foodcrops. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Storage
Part A:   Rehabilitation of Storage Facilities
Rehabilitation of existing flat storage facilities and silos
with an aggregate storage capacity of about 135,000 metric tons
throughout Tanzania.
Part B:   Construction of Storage Facilities
(1) Design and construction of an aggregate of about 13,000
square meters of permanent flat storage facilities in
Dar es Salaam, Mtwara and Dodoma Regions.
(2) Design and construction of about 13,000 square meters of
additional storage facilities.
Part C:   Open Storage Facilities
(1) Provision of about 1,500 tarpaulins and polythene sheets
for existing open storage facilities.
(2) Establishment of pilot programs for controlled open
storage facilities, through the construction of civil
works, including a cement plinth of about 200 square
meters, access roads and drainage systems at Dodoma
and Babati and use of the existing cement plynth at
Arusha.
(3) Provision of 3 dryers, each with a capacity of 5 tons
per hour.


﻿- 16 -
Milling
Part D:   Construction of Maize Mills
(1) Increase in the capacity of the maize mill in Dar es
Salaam from 50 metric tons/day to about 120 metric
tons/day, through the design and construction of an
extension of the facilities.
(2) Design and construction of a roller maize mill at
Dodoma, with a capacity to process about 120 metric
tons/day.
Part E:   Rehabilitation of Mills
Rehabilitation of existing mills in Iringa, Arusha and
Dar es Salaam, through the provision of replacement parts for the
mills, equipment and additional facilities for small laboratories.
Part F:   Laboratories
(1) Design and construction of a central laboratory for
analysis of grain and flour in Dar es Salaam and provi-
sion of equipment, including laboratory scales, moisture
testers, and an ash furnace.
(2) Design, construction and equipping of satellite labora-
tories in Iringa, Dodoma, Mwanza and Arusha Regions.
Institutional and Material Support to NMC
Part G:   Training of NMC Staff
Training of NMC's staff in all NMC's operations, including
inter alia, storage, milling, accounting, transport, planning,
vehicle repair and provision of transport facilities, training
facilities and equipment and staff training overseas.
Part H:   Technical Assistance and Staff
(1) Strengthening of the staff of NMC through the employment
of a supervising engineer, a maintenance engineer, a
transport manager, a cost accountant and five staff
accountants.


﻿- 17 -
(2) Strengthening of the management, improvement of the
operation of NMC and implementation of the Project,
through the provision of about 30 man-years of technical
advisory services to assist NMC in establishment of
operational procedures and policies, implementation and
supervision of storage operations, grain handling,
planning, accounting and establishment of a management
information system and an in-service training system.
(3) Carrying out of studies and other preparatory, executory
or supervisory work on specific subjects, with the
assistance of about 30 man-months of short-term consul-
tants' services.
Part I:   Housing and Office Space
Design and construction of six staff houses and additional
office space for NMC.
Part J:   Transportation
(1) Provision of about fifty-six 4-7 ton trucks, spare parts
and two-way radio communication facilities to be used
for the procurement of crops from villages to depots and
from depots to branch godowns, as fumigation vehicles
and mobile workshops.
(2) Provision of one 10-12 ton wrecker and spare parts
therefor.
(3) Provision of about 56 four-wheel drive vehicles and
about 34 passenger cars and spare parts, to assist in
communication with villages, coordination of village
purchases and for use by technical assistance and
staff.
(4) Provision of about 45 motorcycles and spare parts, to be
used by quality control teams.
MDB and PPMB
Part K:
(1) Assistance to MDB and PPMB through the provision of
technical advisory services, financing of operating


﻿- 18 -
costs, surveys, studies and analyses and provision of
vehicles, miscellaneous equipment and training fellow-
ships.
(2) Construction of an office building for use by PPMB.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    QV- day of          \  ,
198 1
FOR SECRETARY


