OFFIC'AL
Dcu         CEDIT NWMER 1015 TA
Agreement Providing for Amendment
and Restatement of
Project Agreement
(Grain Storage and Milling Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL MILLING CORPORATION
Dated  0                 m1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1015 TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , --6 , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and NATIONAL MILLING CORPORATION (hereinafter called
NMC).
WHEREAS by the AGREEMENT providing for AMENDEMENT and
RESTATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT of even date herewith
between United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
amend and restate the Development Credit Agreement between the
Borrower and the Association dated April 15, 1981 (hereinafter
called the Development Credit Agreement) in the manner therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS the Association and NMC have agreed to amend the
Project Agreement between the Association and NMC also dated
April 15, 1981 (hereinafter called the Project Agreement) in the
manner hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Project Agreement is hereby amended and
restated in its entirety so as to read as set forth in the Annex
hereto.
Section 1.02. The Agreement providing for Amendment and
Restatement of Project Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Agreement Providing for Amendment and
Restatement of Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿-2-
IN WITNESS, WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa
NATIONAL MILLING CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿ANNEX
To Agreement providing for
Amendment and Restatement
of Project Agreement dated
April 15, 1981
CREDIT NUMBER 1015 TA
AMENDED AND RESTATED
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Grain Storage and Milling Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL MILLING CORPORATION
Dated April 15, 1981
As amended and restated on OX ),     1     1985


﻿ANNEX
Page 1
PROJECT AGREEMENT AS AMENDED AND RESTATED
AGRMENT, dated April 15, 1981, as amended and restated
on 0 c                  , 1985 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and NATIONAL
MILLING CORPORATION (hereinafter called NMC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-three million dollars ($43,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that NMC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS NMC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NMC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A
through C and E through G of the Project described in said
Schedule with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, managerial, agricultural, financial
and engineering practices.


﻿ANNEX
Page 2
Section 2.02. In order to assist NMC in carrying out Parts
A through C and E through G of the Project, NMC shall employ a
procurement expert and the consultants and experts set forth in
the Schedule to this Agreement and shall ensure that their quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants and
experts to be selected in accordance with principles and pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) NMC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by NMC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, NMC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.05. (a) NMC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon   their  preparation, the   plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) NMC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Asso-
ciation's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods


﻿ANNEX
Page 3
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between NMC and the
Association, NMC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by NMC and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d)  NKC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-
perty and equipment of NMC and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.06. NMC shall, not later than March 31, 1986, pre-
pare and furnish to the Association for its review and approval,
a detailed program for the rehabilitation of its storage and silo
facilities, including an economic and financial analysis of each
facility with an estimated cost of more than the equivalent of
$100,000, and shall implement such program.
Section 2.07. NMC shall, not later than March 31, 1986, pre-
pare and furnish to the Association for its approval, a construc-
tion program, including detailed designs, for the new storage
facilities included in Part A (2) of the Project.
Section 2.08. NMC shall, not later than March 31, 1986, pre-
pare and furnish to the Association for its approval, a detailed
program for the rehabilitation of mills under Part C (3) of the
Project.
Section 2.09. NMC shall, not later than March 31, 1986, pre-
pare and furnish to the Association, a detailed program for the
training of its staff, which shall include in-service training
for pest control staff.


﻿ANNEX
Page 4
Section 2.10. NMC shall, as soon as the new maize mill to be
constructed under Part C (1) of the Project is in routine opera-
tion, close its Pugu Road Maize Mill.
Section 2.11. NMC shall, not later than December 31, 1985,
submit to the Association for its review, a study of the
profitability of the continued operation of the Canning Site
Maize Mill, in order to determine whether it should be closed or
rehabilitated.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NMC
Section 3.01. NMC shall carry out its undertakings under
the Project and shall conduct its operations and affairs in
conformity with sound administrative, managerial, agricultural,
financial, technical and commercial practices, under qualified
and experienced management and staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. NMC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. NMC shall at all times operate and maintain
its facilities, equipment and other property, and promptly as
required make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound agricultural, business and engineering
practices.
Section 3.04. NMC shall: (a) take all action necessary on
its part to ensure the prompt employment of all its key staff, as
provided for in Section 2.02 and the Schedule to this Agreement;
and
(b) assign qualified and experienced counterpart staff in
adequate numbers to work with said staff.
Section 3.05. NMC shall, not later than September 30, 1986,
prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and com-
ments, a detailed program of preventative maintenance for its
mills, godowns and godown equipment, an'. shall thereafter carry
out such program.


﻿ANNEX
Page 5
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NMC shall maintain records including
separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, its
operations and financial condition.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, NMC shall: (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expen-
diture; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. NMC shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) and the separate records and
accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements and separate records and accounts referred to in Sec-
tion 4.01 (b) of this Agreement for such year as so audited, and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably re-
quested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate
opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificiates of expenditures have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of NMC and said separate
accounts, records and expenditures and audit thereof as the Asso-
clation shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿ANNEX
Page 6
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NMC shall take all necessary steps as shall be required to
ensure that its short term debt does not exceed Tsh 400 million
plus twice the framgate value of current season stocks on hand.
For the purposes of this Section the term "short term debt" means
all debt, including overdrafts, incurred in the ordinary course
of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less than one
year after its incurrence.
Section 5.02. NMC shall, not later than December 31, 1985,
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association, a
detailed cost reduction proposal reflecting but not limited to, a
reduction in staff numbers and the geographical coverage of its
operations.
Section 5.03. NMC shall prepare and submit to the Borrower
and the Association by no later than December 31, 1985 and
thereafter by no later than April 1, of each year, beginning
April 1, 1986, a procurement plan which shall indicate, inter
alia:
(a) the quantity of each crop by region that NMC expects to
purchase in the following year (June 1 - May 31);
(b) corresponding regional and crop cost structures; and
(c) projected overdraft requirement by month.
Section 5.04. NMC shall, not later than June 30, 1987, com-
plete a survey on insect damage to purchased and stored grain,
and submit to the Association for its review and comments, a plan
of action for minimizing such damage, and shall thereafter carry
out such plan of action.
Section 5.05. NMC shall, commencing June 30, 1986 carry out
a three year program of controlled open storage to monitor losses
due to insect or other damage.


﻿ANNEX
Page 7
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NMC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accotIdance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development     Credit  Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
NMC of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisiojas of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect n&itwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICL VII
Miscellaneias Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice
or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿ANNEX
Page 8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NMC:
National Milling Corporation
P.O. Box 9502
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:                    Telex:
CHAKULA                           41343
Dar es Salaam                     41480
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NMC may be taken or executed by the
General Manager of NMC or such other person or persons as the
General Manager shall designate in writing, and NMC shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿ANNEX
Page 9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
NATIONAL MILLING CORPORATION
By Is! Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative


﻿ANNEX
Page 10
SCHEDULE
Consultants and Experts to be employed by NMC
1.   NMC shall, by December 31, 1985, appoint the following:
(a) A training expert to assist in the training of NMC's
staff.
(b) A senior milling engineer to assist NMC in the imple-
mentation of new mill construction, and rehabilitation of exist-
ing mills.
(c) A construction engineer to review the design of, con-
tracts for and supervision of construction and rehabilitation of
mills.
2.   NMC shall, by March 31, 1986, appoint the following:
(a) A storage management expert to assist NMC in the estab-
lishment of operational procedures, policies and criteria for
appropriate grain handling practices.
(b) A maintenance engineer to establish a building main-
tenance schedule, and to supervise building maintenance including
movable and ancillary equipment.
(c) A director of finance, chief accountant, chief internal
auditor and cost accountant to establish an adequate accounting
system in NMC.
(d) Five accountants and five auditors to assist in the
preparation of acounts for NMC's operations outside headquarters.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  e12      day of
198S.
FOR SECRETARY


