                                                 Documentof
                                             The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                  Report No. 26556-NEP




                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                        PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                   FOR A

                 PROPOSEDFIRST POVERTY REDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT

                                INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR51MILLION

                                  (EQUIVALENT TO US$70MILLION)

                                                    TO

                                       THE KINGDOMOFNEPAL



                                            October 15,2003




Poverty Reductionand Economic Management
South Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
              (Exchange Rate Effective October 15, 2003)
                Currency Unit =NepaleseRupees(NRp)
                          US$1.0=74.50NRp
                             FISCAL, YEAR
                             July 15 -July 14

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB         Asian Development Bank
APP         Agriculture Perspective Plan
CIAA        Commissionfor the Investigationof Abuse of Authority
CFAA        Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR        Country Procurement AssessmentReport
CWIQ        Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DAP         Development Action Plan
DFID        Department f or InternationalDevelopment
DIDO        District Infrastructure Development Office
DHS         Demographic Health Survey
EHSP        Essential Health Service Package
IAP         ImmediateAction Plan
ICD         InlandContainer Depots
IDA         InternationalDevelopment Association
IMF         InternationalMonetary Fund
HMGN        H i s Majesty's Government of Nepal
LSGA        Local Self Governance Act
MDG         MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MTEF        MediumTermExpenditure Framework
NBL         Nepal Bank Limited
NEA         Nepal Electricity Authority
NGO         Non-GovernmentalOrganization
NOC         Nepal Oil Corporation
NRB         Nepal Rastra Bank
NTA         Nepal Telecommnunications Authority
PAF         Poverty Alleviation Fund
PIS         Personnel Information System
PRSP        Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper
PRSC        Poverty Reduction Support Credit
RBB         RastriyaBanijya Bank
RTS         Rural Telecommunications Service
SMC         School Management Committee
SHPS        Sub-Health Posts
VDC         Village Development Committee
WTO         World Trade Organization


                 Vice President:      Praful Pate1
             Country Director:        KenichiOhashi
     Sector Director / Manager:       Sadiq Ahmed / Ijaz Nabi
          Task Team Leaders:          HassanZaman / Roshan Bajracharya

                                                                                                                            FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

I Overview                                                                                                                                                                    1
I1 Country Context andDevelopmentPerformance
 ..           .............................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                 ...........................................................................................  3
     Poverty and Social Context............................................................................................................................... 3
     Economic Context.............................................................................................................................................            4
     PoliticalContext................................................................................................................................................         5
I11 Nepal's Poverty ReductionStrategy                                                                                                                                         7
IV ReformsSupportedby the ProposedCredit
   ..                                                      ................................................................................................................
                                                                         ...................................................................................................  9
     Reforms to Restore Broad-based Growth.........................................................................................................                           9
     Reforms to Improve Service Delivery ............................................................................................................                         18
     Reforms to Promote Social Inclusion.............................................................................................................                         20
     Reforms to Improve Governance....................................................................................................................                        21
V The ProposedCredit
  .                            .........................................................................................................................................      24
     The World Bank's Assistance Strategy ..........................................................................................................                          24
     Credit Design and Fiduciary Issues ................................................................................................................                      27
     Poverty and Social Impact Monitoring...........................................................................................................                          29
     Benefits and Risks...........................................................................................................................................            31

LIST OF TABLES
Table 1:RegionalDisparities. Nepal. 1995/96..........................................................................................................                          3
Table 2: SelectedEconomic Indicators 1997/98-2002/03.........................................................................................                                  4
Table 3: MediumTerm Fiscal Framework..............................................................................................................                            13
Table 4: PRSC Themes and Partnerships with Other Donors .................................................................................                                     26

LIST OF BOXES
Box 1:PotentialSources of Growth.......................................................................................................................... 9
Box 2: Fiscal Sustainability Scenarios ....................................................................................................................                   10
Box 3: Key Recommendations from the Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) .........................                                                               21
Box 4: Prior Actions for PRSC Iand Indicative Prior Actions for PRSC I1...........................................................                                            29

LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1: The PRSC Program and AAA Underpinnings

ATTACHMENT
Attachment 1:Letter of DevelopmentPolicy

LIST OFANNEXES
Annex I: Nepal Medium Term Policy Reform Matrix
Annex 11:      Analysis of the Potential Impact of Removing the Kerosene Subsidy
Annex 111:     Poverty inNepal
Annex IV:      Public Financial Management and Accountability inNepal
Annex V:       NepalAt a Glance
Annex VI:      Social Indicators
Annex VII:     Key Economic Indicators
Annex VIII:    Key Exposure Indicators
Annex IX:      IMFPublic InformationNotice


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                        Task Team
HassanZaman, Senior Economist and TaskLeader; RoshanBajrachaiya, Senior Economist and
co-Task Leader; Rajib Upadhya,Senior External Affairs Oficer; RobertP. Beschel,Lead Public
Sector Management Specialist; Bigyan Pradhan, Senior Financial Management Specialist;
Ismail Radwan, Private Sector Development Specialist; GiovannaPrennushi, Lead Economist;
Rajendra Dhoj Joshi, Senior Education Specialist; Lynn Bennett, Adviser; Surendra Govinda
Joshi, Senior Transport Specialist; Shyam Sundar Ranjitkar, Senior Irrigation Engineer; Tashi
Tenzing, Senior Sanitary Engineer; Asif Faiz, Operations Adviser; Masami Kojima, Lead
Energy Specialist; Nawaf Al-Mahamel, Counsel; Tara Vishwanath, Lead Economist; Tirtha
Rana, Senior Health Specialist; Jagmohan Kang, Senior PHN Specialist; Ahmad Ahsan, Lead
Economist; Sabin Shrestha, Financial Sector Specialist; Donna Thompson, Senior Financial
Management Specialist; Geeta Sethi, Senior Economist; Syed Mahmood, Senior Private Sector
Development Specialist; Bala Bhaskar Naidu, Research Analyst; Narayan Sharma, Consultant;
Ram Chandra Mishra, Consultant; Nuru Lama, Summer Intern, Shahnaz Sultana Ahmed,
Program Assistant; Kiran Gautum, Program Assistant and Neena Shresta,Program Assistant.

Peer Reviewers: Sudhir Shetty, Sector Manager; Ritva Reinikka, Research Manager;
ShantayananDevarajan, Chief Economist.

                                      KINGDOMOF NEPAL
                      FIRST POVERTYREDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT

                                  CreditandProgramSummary

Borrower:     The Kingdomof Nepal

Amount:       SDR 51million (US$70millionequivalent)

Terms:        Standard IDA terms; 40-year maturity with 10-yeargrace period

Description:  The proposed credit supports the implementation of the Government's Poverty Reduction
              Strategy Paper (PRSP), which focuses on:


              Generating economic growth: The PRSP argues that higher growth will require greater
              productivity of the agricultural sector and a recovery in manufacturing, tourism and exports.
              Inadditionto describingthe important exogenousfactors that determine Nepal's growth, the
              PRSP also identifies key barriers to growth that public policy can influence. Restoring peace
              will clearly prove a boon to the overall investment climate and to the tourism industry in
              particular. Maintaining macro-economic stability, greater efforts at domestic resource
              mobilization, expenditure prioritization and better financial management will create the fiscal
              space to spend on maintaining and creating public assets. Improving the investment climate
              will require a reduction in transport costs, significant strengthening of the financial system,
              more reliable power and telecom services and greater flexibility inlabor markets.


            0 Zmproving service delivery: The PRSP outlines the importance of improving service delivery
              through a gradual process of decentralization, greater empowerment of local communities
              and greater involvement of the private sector in the management of social services. This shift
              away from a `Kathmandu controlled' systemto one where key decisions are made at the local
              level stems from a recognition by key decision-makers that in a diverse country like Nepal,
              devolving authority to the grassroots is essential to improving the quality of services and
              overcoming the prevailing disillusionment with Government services. This process has begun
              inawide range of sectors includingeducation, health, water, agriculture androads.


            0 Promoting social inclusion: The PRSPrecognizes that promoting social inclusionwill require
              fundamental policy and institutional changes - particularly in the way services are delivered
              and in the gender, ethnic and caste composition of the civil service. In addition, in order to
              enhance the flow of resources to excluded groups inthe short run,the PRSP outlines the need
              to have targeted programs for the hard-core poor, ethnic minorities, people living in remote
              areas, female-headed households and women. The strategy discusses the importance of using
              the new Poverty Alleviation Fund to target communities in conflict-affected areas as well as
              introduce scholarship programs for girls and ethnic minorities to improve access to schooling.


            0 Zmproving governance. Recognizingthat governance improvements are essential if reforms to
              stimulate pro-poor growth and improve service delivery are to have their desired impact, the
              PRSP develops both cross-cutting and sector-specific governance improvement strategies.
              Cross-cutting themes include: (i)improving the effectiveness of the civil service; (ii)
              strengthening anti-corruption institutions; (iii)
                                                              improving the functioning of key agencies and

                  (iv) improving financial management. These will be complemented by tackling governance
                  issues in key areas such as the financial sector, infrastructure, health and education.

Benefits:         The PRSC program supports selective key reforms that will directly contribute to pro-poor
                  growth by (i)  creating fiscal space for, and improving the effectiveness of, growth enhancing
                  public investments and (ii)     improving the investment climate. The PRSC program also
                  supports Nepal's track record of meaningful reforms in improving service delivery by
                  assisting HMGN in developing annual benchmarks consistent with the broad reform
                  objectives and by providing the fiscal and technical resources necessary to accelerate the
                  reform momentum. The PRSC process supports Nepal's efforts to promote social inclusion
                  by (i) improving the effectiveness of targeted programs (ii)    improving access to schooling for
                  excluded groups and (iii)      encouraging civil service diversity. The PRSC program also
                  supports HMGN's strategy to improve governance by (i)          improving the effectiveness of the
                  civil service (ii)strengthening anti-corruption and accountability institutions (iii)  improving
                  the functioning of key agencies and (iv) improving financial management and procurement
                  practices. The improvements in governance that are supported by the PRSC Iare designed to
                  bring about a more accountable, efficient and less corrupt government that will create a more
                  favorable investment climate and lead to better service delivery.

Risks and Mitigation Strategy:

                  There are several risks associatedwith the PRSC: (i)returnto a prolongedperiod of conflict
                                                                           a
                  would dampen growth prospects and the impact of structural reforms on poverty; (ii)      prior to
                  and following national elections the efforts of reform minded technocrats may be crowded
                  out by political interference and threaten the sustainability of reforms; (iii)  implementation
                  capacity may not be sufficient to sustain a broad reform agenda; (iv) a further worsening of
                  global economic conditions may undermine the impact of growth-enhancing reforms. These
                  are real risks and there i s no guarantee that risk mitigation measures could overcome the joint
                  effect of these forces should they materialize. The risk mitigating measures partly lie in an
                  on-going process of bringingthe delivery and management of resources closer to the people
                  (by devolving authority from the center in education, health, water and extension services)
                  and using targeted programs to provide opportunities and services for particularly
                  marginalized groups and in the most deprived districts. Many of the reforms outlined in this
                  document have a wide degree of support across the political spectrum and from civil society,
                  as they have been based on consensus-building exercises and stakeholder consultations.
                  Recognizing the risk of capacity limits derailing the reform process, the reform program
                  embedded in the PRSP and supported by the PRSC sets realistic implementationtargets. The
                  Immediate Action Plan (IAP) process plays an important role inthis regard, in identifying an
                  annual list of high priority reform actions. While the above risk mitigation measures should
                  provide adequate comfort that these risks are manageable, as an added risk-mitigation
                  measure, the Bank will provide a loan acceleration clause that would allow the Bank to
                  demand immediate repayment of the proposed loan by the Borrower in case reforms are
                  reversed or materially changed.

EstimatedDisbursement:         SDR 51million ($70 million equivalent) disbursed ina singletranche upon credit
                               effectiveness.

Project ID Number:             PO74685

         IDA PROGRAMDOCUMENT FOR A PROPOSEDPROGRAMMATIC
                            STRUCTURALADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                 TO THE KINGDOMOFNEPAL

                                                I.Overview

1.       Thirteen years after the establishment of a multi-party democracy and the start of rapid
economic liberalization, Nepal is in the midst of a somewhat unnoticed but important "id-
course correction.' The aspirations of the Nepali people for better and more inclusive governance and
public services have become increasingly frustrated over the years. The armed rebel movement, which
sharply escalated in2001, was the starkest reflection of the risingtensions. Wide disenchantment with
ineffective and corrupt government, however, has also created a strong internal pressure for reform. In
parallel with the political process that i s focusing on restoring peace and a more effective democracy, a
renewed drive has been underway to buildthe economic and social foundation for sustainedpeace and
poverty reduction. Much of the reform centers around creating a high-performance state that delivers
public services efficiently and inclusively and supports broad-basedeconomic growth.

2.       Although some important progresswas made inthe 1990s, Nepal remains one of poorest
countries in the world. Economic liberalization in the early 1990s spurred respectable growth,
averaging 5% per annum in the 1990s.However, growth in the past two years has been more modest
due largely to the insurgency and the effects of the global economic slowdown. Certain social
indicators such as infant and child mortality, total fertility, and life expectancy, have also improved
significantly over the past decade. Nonetheless, widespread poverty has persisted, as the impact of
growth has been dampened by high population growth and the Kathmandu centered growth pattem.
Large inequities prevail across ethnic and gender lines, fueling the conflict.

3.       The foundations for a lasting peace lie in improving service delivery, promoting social
inclusion and reducing corruption: In late January 2003, a cease-fire was agreed upon by His
Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) and the rebels that lasted until August 2003. Conflict has
since resumed following a breakdown of talks. Key policymakers in Nepal are now acutely aware of
the need to make public services and economic growth more inclusive in order to arrive at a lasting
peace, and suchawareness i s reflectedinthe PRSP.

4.       Important reforms that have taken place over the last eighteen months are restoring the
credibility of the Government. These reforms focus on improving the delivery of basic services
complemented by far-reaching structural and governance reforms. Key reforms include: (i)        revamping
the expenditure management system to focus resources on priority development activities; (ii)     handing
over management of public schools and sub-health posts to local management committees; (iii)
strengthening the legal power of the anti-corruptionauthority (which usedthis authority to file charges
in high profile corruption cases); (iv) bringing the two largest loss-makingcommercial banks under
external management teams; (v) increasing private sector participation in power and telecom with
provisions for rural services; (vi) setting up an independent Roads Board to improve road
maintenance; (vii) passing legislation that improved women's legal rights to parental property and
(viii) significantly reducingthe number of civil service transfers.

5.       These reforms are being championed largely by technocrats who have been given the
space to carry out critical reforms. As the crisis in Nepal deepened over the past two years, an
increasing number of reform-minded individuals (mostly at the technocratic level but some at the
political level) have begun to take determined actions to face up to the challenge. Strong reform

champions have emergedina number of central agenciesas well as line ministries. The recent changes
in administration has not hampered their efforts, for in most cases they are simply implementing the
strategies and policies that had been adopted before and enjoy strong public support. If anything, the
preoccupation of politicians with power politics has given the reformers more space.

6.       Nepal's future reform agenda is articulated in the PRSP. The poverty reduction strategy
has been prepared through a highly consultative process. The PRSP rests on four key pillars: (i)
generating economic growth; (ii)    improving service delivery; (iii)promoting social inclusion and (iv)
improving governance. Recognizingthe constraints to implementation capacity, HMGNhas prepared
an `Immediate Action Plan 2003' to ensure that a selective set of key reforms under the PRSP are
implemented.

7.       HMGN has requested financial support from the World Bank and IMF to help
implement the PRSP. Inresponse, the IMFi s preparing a PRGF and we propose to support the PRSP
through the PRSC process. A Joint Staff Assessment (JSA) of the PRSP i s being undertaken. The
PRGF and the proposed PRSC Iare being closely coordinated and a Board presentation of mid
November i s envisaged for both operations along with the PRSP and accompanying JSA.

8.       Bank support to HMGN at this time is critical to strengthen the reform process.
Reformers have now reached a critical mass and have a higher profile than inthe past. This presents an
opportunity for the Bank to provide the fiscal and technical support that i s required to sustain the
reform momentum. For several years the Bank restricted its financial support, thus strengthening its
credibility and creating the incentives for reform ina fiscally constrained environment. By recognizing
a strong track record of change, the Bank will strengthen the reformers' will to move ahead with their
agenda inthe face of opposition from the quarters that standto gain from maintainingthe status quo. It
will give a clear signal that future reforms will also be duly supported and help protect the space
requiredfor reformers. Moreover, timely financial support would createfiscal space inthe next budget
to expand financing of priority public services.

9.       The risks underlying reform implementation can be mitigated and are balanced by the
opportunity to strengthen the reform momentum. There are several key risks: (i)       the breakdown of
the peace process dampens the impact of reforms (ii) to and following national elections the
                                                          prior
efforts of reform minded technocrats may be crowded out by political interference; and (iii)
implementation and monitoring capacity constrains progress. The basic risk mitigation measure i s in
the design of the reforms itself. The reformers are trying to use `quick-win' reforms to deliver wide
benefits and broaden the support for reforms. They are also using the Immediate Action Plan to set
realistic implementation targets in line with capacity. Moreover, these risks are balanced by the
benefits that can be brought about by continued progress on the reform agenda. It would be no
exaggeration to say the future of Nepal depends on the success of this process.




                                                    2

                      11. Country Context andDevelopment Performance

Poverty and Social Context

10.     Nepal remains one of the poorest countries in the world - per capita income i s about
$250, around half the children under five are malnourished and progress towards Millennium
Development Goal (MDG) targets remains slow. Growth in the 1990's has been respectable,
averaging 5% but its impact on poverty has been dampened by high population growth, by being
concentrated inthe Kathmandu valley and the escalation of the conflict over the past two years.

11.     The incidence of consumption poverty stood at 42 percent in 1995/96; trends over the last few
years will be assessedin 2004 when the secondround of the Nepal Living Standards Survey, currently
in the field, will be completed. However, the main characteristics of the poor are unlikely to have
changed substantially since 1995/96. There are significant geographical differences, (see table 1) - in
general the poor live inrural areas and engage in subsistence agriculture on small plots of land, often
of low quality; they have limited access to roads, markets, healthand education services, often because
of remoteness; and rely on seasonal migration and remittances to cope with downturns. Indigenous
ethnidcaste groups continue to lag behind in their income and asset levels, educational achievements,
and human development indicators.

                 Table 1: Regional Disparities, Nepal, 1995/96

                                              Poverty    Poverty Gap   Illiteracy
                                             Incidence                 (percent)
           Nepal                                42          0.121           64

           Urban                                 23         0.070           37
           Rural                                44          0.125           67

           UrbanKathmanduValley                  4          0.004           24
           Other Urban                           34         0.109           45
           Terai                                42          0.099           69
           Hills                                41          0.136           58

           Mountains                             56         0.185           75



12.      The evidence of changes in social indicators presentsa mixed picture. Data from the 1996
and the 2001 Nepal Demographic and Health Survey indicate that the infant mortality rate has fallen
from 79 per 1000 in 1996 to 64 in 2001 and child mortality from 43 to 29 per 1000. The improvement
can be largely attributed to better immunization coverage -- the percentage of children fully
immunized has increased by 67 percent in the last five years. Total fertility has declined from 4.6 to
4.1 births per woman and life expectancy has increased from 56 years to 59 years over these five
years. On the other hand, there appears to have been little improvement in the nutritional status of
children, with 50 percent of children under five years of age stunted, 48 percent underweight, and 10
percent wasted (thin for their age). The gender gap in education has not narrowed, with a 13
percentagepoint difference at the primary level and an 8 percentagepoint difference at the secondary
level (see Annex I11for further details of the poverty profile inNepal).




                                                     3

Economic Context
13.        Export-led growth in Nepal averaged 5 percent per annum inthe 1990's. Macroeconomic
management strengthened during the mid 1990s, inflation was kept low and stable, and exchange
rates-pegged          to the Indian rupee-depreciated gradually to maintain stability and export
competitiveness. Economic liberalization in the early 1990s' and successful stabilization of the
economy in the mid 1990s helped to create an enabling environment in the non-agriculture sector,
which accounted for 75 percent of growth during this period. The rapid manufacturing growth was
primarily export-led; the value of exports doubled between 1994/95 and 1999/00 (in U S dollar terms)
with increased demand from the US and Germany and even more rapid growth in the Indian market.
Exports to India grew at a spectacular average rate of 42 percent between 1998 and 2002, largely due
to a five-year old bilateral trade treaty, whereby Nepali goods were allowed into India essentially duty
and quota-free. The rapid growth of tourism was also a significant determinant of non-agricultural
growth - the number of tourist arrivals grew by 51% between 1994 and 1999. Agricultural growth
rose in 1999/00 and 2000/01 due to favorable weather and expanded fertilizer and irrigation use,
though its overall contribution to growth inthe 1990s has been modest (around one-fourth).

                              Table 2: Selected Economic Indicators 1997198-2002lO3

                                                                   1997/98 1998/99 1999/00 2000/01 2001/02 2002/03
                                                                                                              Prelim

GDPgrowthrates
 RealGDPat factor cost                                              2.9      4.5     6.1      4.8       -0.5       2.3
 Agricultural GDP                                                   0.9      2.8     4.9      5.5       2.2        2.1
 Non-agriculturalGDP                                                5.0      5.6     6.8      4.3       -2.1       2.5
    Manufacturing                                                   3.4      5.3     7.2      3.8       -10        0.4
    Other Sectors                                                   5.3      5.7     6.8      4.4       -0.6       2.9

Govemmentbudget (percentof GDP)
 Totalrevenue                                                       10.5     10.2    10.7     11.4      11.5      12.3
 Total expenditure                                                  16.7     15.4    15.7     17.6      17.2      16.3
   Current expenditure                                              9.2      9.4      9.6     11.2      11.6      11.6
   Capital expenditureandnet lending                                7.5      6.1      6.1     6.4       5.7        4.7
 Overalldeficit beforegrants                                        6.2      5.2      5.0     6.2       5.7        4.0
 Overalldeficit after grants                                        4.4      3.9      3.5     4.5       4.3        1.9
 Domesticfinancing(net)                                             0.5      1.4      0.9      2.7      2.9        1.2

Inflation - CPI(average)                                            8.3      11.4     3.4      2.1      2.9        4.7
Currentaccountbalance (excludinggrants)                             -2.8     0.5      0.5      1.2      2.6        -0.9
Gross official reserves(in months of importsof goods and services)  5.3      4.9      5.6     7.0       6.7        6.9
Extemaldebt/GDP (inpercent)                                         49.7     50.3    48.2     49.9      52.9      52.2
Debt service brcent of exports of goodsandservices)                 5.1      5.3      4.7      6.1      7.5        7.4

Source: IMF




'    Liberalization measures included: (i) reform o f investment regulations, including easing of entry barriers; (ii) and
                                                                                                                       trade
     financial sector reforms that facilitated the supply of raw materials, intermediate and capital goods; and (iii) regulatory
     reforms that allowed private sector participationininfrastructure.




                                                                  4

14.     Growth has slowed sharply in recent years: Due to a combination of factors, growth in
2001/02 slumped to -0.5%, though preliminary estimatesfor 2002/03 suggests that a modest recovery
i s  underway.     The     Insurgency    (through    increased   insecurity,  destruction  of  physical
assets/infrastructure, strikes and loss of business confidence) and the global economic slowdown ledto
a contraction inmanufacturing output by 10% in2001/02 compared to the previous year. The value of
merchandise exports i s estimated to have declined by 15 percent in 2001/02 after growing by
21 percent on average during the previous three years. The impact of September 11" and the
deteriorating domestic security situation ledto a 22% decline inthe number of tourist arrivals in2001.
Excessive monsoon rains also caused agriculture growth to slow to 2.2% in2001/02. However, growth
in2002/03 is projected at 2.4%. The improved security situation inthe second half of the fiscal year
appears to have led to an increase in tourist arrivals (25% increase between August 2002 and August
2003) restored normality inthe transport and service sectors and contributed to arebounding of certain
manufacturing exports, particularly garments.

15.     Nepal has maintained a prudent fiscal stance. The fiscal deficit after grants has not
exceeded 4.5% of GDP over the past decade and has been largely financed by concessional foreign
financing. Concerns over a growing share of domestic borrowing in financing the deficit in recent
years were allayed in 2002103 as domestic borrowing was lower than expected. Revenue collection
fluctuated little between 1994/95 and 1999/00 averaging 10.5% of GDP. Following the
implementation of tax reforms, revenues rose significantly to 12.3% of GDP in 2002/03. Total
expenditures declined in 2002/03 due largely to shortfalls in development expenditure in light of the
security situation.

 16.    Balance of payments developments have been broadly positive. Preliminary estimates for
2002/03 suggest that the overall balance of payment i s expected to remain in surplus though a
rebounding economy has raised the level of imports to the point where the current account deficit i s
approximately 1percent of GDP. Remittances have grown steadily over the past few years-and        now
exceed merchandise exports-reflecting       a rapid increase inthe number of Nepali workers in Malaysia
and the Middle East. Gross official reserves stood at over $1billion, covering almost seven months of
imports. While reserves are comfortable, they are not at a level where HMGNcan afford to draw down
reserves to finance budgetary expenditures, given Nepal's vulnerability to exogenous shocks. The
external debt service ratio (debt service as a proportion of exports of goods services and private
transfers) is around 7.4% and interest payments on foreign debt has averaged around 0.5% of GDP in
recent years (see Box 2 on `Fiscal sustainability scenarios').

PoliticalContext

 17.    In 1990, the Jana Andolan (People's Movement) restored multi-party democracy and in a
mere six weeks, the party-less Panchayat systemthat ruled Nepal for thirty years was gone. The fall of
the Nepali Congress majority government in 1994, pulled down by a faction of its own party in
Parliament, marked the beginning of intensely fractious politics. Between then and 2001, all three
major political parties split (although two have come back together again). Two general elections were
held and there were ten changes in government, with the average life of each government being 9.5
months. During these years, ideology increasingly took a back seat as coalitions were blatantly made
and broken along vested political and personal interests. Political interference in the day to day
runningof the administration becamemore of the rulethan the exception.

 18.    Capturing the disenchantment with democracy as it was practiced since 1990, a rebel
movement took up arms in 1996. After a failed attempt for peace talks in 2001, the insurgency
escalated sharply and led to a growing climate of fear and insecurity in rural areas. Considerable




                                                      5

damage has been done to infrastructure-over one-third of the country's 3,900 Village Development
Council buildings have been damaged or destroyed, thirteen out of seventy five districts are without
phones, five hydroelectric plants are out of action, 250 post offices have been destroyed and six
airports have been closed. Security concerns led to the postponement of local and national elections
creating further political uncertainty.

19.      Despite the deepening national crisis, frequent changes in Government continued in 2002.
Following the dissolution of the Parliament in May 2002, Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba
continued as caretaker prime minister and announced general elections for November 2002. In late-
September, however, concluding that the insurgency was too big a security threat to ensure free and
fair elections, Mr.Deuba recommended deferment of the election by over a year. Determiningthat Mr.
Deuba's recommendation amounted to incompetence, the King dismissed Mr.Deuba and temporarily
took over all executive powers. King Gyanendra made it clear that the government should be headed
by and composed of individuals of "clean image" who would not run for office in the forthcoming
elections-the   dates of which are still unannounced.

20.      On October 4, 2002, veteran politician Mr. Lokendra Bahadur Chand was appointed by the
King as the new Prime Minister and head of a cabinet composed of technocrats and leaders of the
smaller political parties. The Chand government was given a five-point mandate: (i)       restoring peace;
(ii) thesuspendedelections;(iii) corruption; (iv)improvingservicedelivery; and(v)
    holding                                 fighting
maintaining good relations with neighbors. However, the larger political parties refused to recognize
the Chand government, declaring it unconstitutional, and instead chose to agitate for the revival of
Parliament or formation of an all party government with full executive authority in order to limit the
King's powers. Eight months into office, Mr. Chand stepped down on May 30, 2003, in a bid to
narrow the rift between the Palace and the political parties. Inspite of the political turmoilthat marked
histenure, implementationof reforms continued unabated.

21.      On June 4, 2003, the King appointed Mr.Surya Bahadur Thapa as Prime Minister -- Nepal's
twelfth in seven years and fifth since the 1999 elections. Thapa's appointment was accompanied with
an executive order, vesting full executive powers in him. Thapa, also a veteran from the erstwhile
Panchayat era as well as founder president of the Rastriya Prajatantra Party (RPP), currently heads a
seven member `minicabinet' which he hopes to expand if and when the political parties agree to join.
Thapa's appointment with full executive powers i s widely seen as a signal of King Gyanendra's
withdrawal from overt political activity which his critics describe as unbefitting for a constitutional
monarch. The appointment of Dr.Prakash Chandra Lohani as Finance Minister augurs well for reform
implementation. Lohani has held the finance portfolio in the past and was the chief architect of
stabilization and structural reformpolicies inthe mid-eighties.He enjoys an excellent rapport with the
Prime Minister.

22.     The rebel movement and HMGNdeclared a ceasefire on January 29" 2003, and signed a code
of conduct in March. Two rounds of formal peace talks were held before the rebels called off the
cease-fire on August 27&, 2003, ignoring a far-reaching agenda for political and socio-economic
change proposed by the Government side during the negotiations. Key rebel demands include an all-
party conference, an inclusive national government and elections to a constituent assembly to frame a
new constitution. Prime MinisterThapa maintains that peaceful resolution of the conflict and a return
to a functional multi-party polity based on parliamentary elections at the earliest, remain his top
priority inline with the wishes of the general public who clearly want peace.

23.     While there i s substantial political uncertainty, a key recent development in Nepal i s the
emergence of a broad coalition of like-minded reformers comprising of technocrats, intellectuals,




                                                    6

business leaders and civil society representatives who are pushing forward with a change agenda that
i s likely to stay its course even if the political process falters. There seems to be growing hope that the
on-going reforms may raise the standards for public sector performance and set new norms at the level
of the political leadership. Inshort, this period may turn out to be a positive mid-course correction in
the evolution of Nepal as a modem state.

                               111.Nepal's Poverty Reduction Strategy

24.       Nepal's reform agenda revolves around the PRSP's four key pillars: (i)       generating economic
growth; (ii)improving service delivery; (iii)promoting social inclusion; and (iv) improving
governance. There is by now a broad social and political consensus in Nepal, supported by analytical
work2, that progress inthese areas will be critical to building a lasting peace, speedingup development
and catching up for the years lost to the conflict. The poverty reduction strategy, a product of wide
national participation, captures this consensus. The following extract from the PRSP illustrates the
importance given by the poverty reduction strategy's four pillars in tackling many of the underlying
causes of the recent conflict:

"There is little doubt that persistent poverty and inequalities in the Mid and Far Western regions have
provided a fertile breeding ground for the insurrection. The reasons for the disaffection are well
known: (i) The Democracy movement of 1990 created new hopes for change among the ethnic
communities who perceived themselves as marginalized; but the results of various development
activities hardly reached these groups; (ii) Thefailure of governments to deliver adequate and quality
basic social services outside urban areas; (iii) Increasing corruption and leakages, and with them lack
of accountability in the govemment; and, (iv) The slow pace of decentralization and the lack of
community involvement probably added to thefrustration" (pg 39).

25.       Generating economic growth: The PRSP argues that higher growth will require greater
productivity of the agricultural sector and a recovery inmanufacturing, tourism and exports. While the
global economic slow-down and restrictive trade practices by trading partners are essentially
exogenous growth-dampening factors, there are other impediments to growth that HMGN can
influence. Conflict in rural areas, heavy dependence on rain-fed agriculture, high transport costs,
unreliable power and telecom services, a weak financial sector, a rigid labor market and the limited
effectiveness of public investments currently constrain growth in Nepal. HMGN's growth strategy
focuses on relieving each of these impediments. Restoring peace i s particularly critical as it will prove
a boon to the overall investment climate and to the tourism industry in particular. Maintaining macro-
economic stability, greater efforts at domestic resource mobilization and expenditure prioritization will
create the fiscal space for growth enhancing public investments. Improving the effectiveness of
irrigation, rural transport and power sector investments through public-private partnerships are key
components of the PRSP's agricultural growth strategy. The PRSP also argues that improving the
productivity of domestic manufacturing to promote export-led growth will require greater flexibility in
labor markets, significant strengthening of the financial system and more reliable telecom and power
services.

26.       Zmproving service delivery: The PRSP outlines the importance of improving service delivery
through a gradual process of decentralization and greater empowerment of local communities in the
management of social services. In education, the key objectives are to improve primary completion
rates, increase access for girls and ethnic minorities and raise the access to post-primary education.
HMGNhas begunto implement the requiredreforms designed to achieve these objectives. A process

  DFID(2002) `EconomicAspects of the Insurgency in Nepal'




                                                         7

of devolving primary school management to communities has begun and represents a fundamental
shift in approach from the current centrally managed system. Targeted scholarship programs for girls
and ethnic minorities will also be implemented. In health, the Government has developed a sector
strategy that will focus on implementing an Essential Health Care package focused on a range of
critical preventative care, maternal and child health and family planning interventions. Improvements
in service delivery are also expectedto occur through a process of devolving sub-health posts to local
communities. The PRSP elaborates on the importance of access to clean water for healthoutcomes and
aims to increase access in rural areas from 71% to 85% of the rural population by 2006. The key
actions needed to achieve this are to focus on rehabilitation and maintenance of existing projects and
to develop new projects using the demand driven user group approach supported by the Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation FundDevelopment Board. Urban water supply management will be contracted
out to the private sector over the next few years.

27.      Promoting social inclusion: The PRSPrecognizes that promoting social inclusion will require
fundamental policy and institutional changes - particularly in the way services in critical sectors like
education and health are delivered and in the gender, ethnic and caste composition of the civil service.
Inaddition, inordertoenhancethefollow ofresourcestoexcludedgroupsinthe shortterm, thePRSP
proposes targeted programs for the hard-core poor, ethnic minorities (Janjatis), occupation castes
(Dalits), people living in remote areas, female-headed households and women. The strategy reviews
the weaknesses of such efforts in the past and discusses usingthe new Poverty Alleviation Fund as
well as analytical tools, such as poverty mapping data, to improve the effectiveness of the proposed
initiatives. The PRSP also stresses the need for `quick results' in order to gain the confidence of those
who have thus far been left behind by development efforts. As a result the PRSP proposes to
implement an integrated infrastructure development program (drinking water, small irrigation,
schools, health posts, and trails) in remote areas through local Government, community groups and
NGOs in light of the capacity constraints of the central Government. The PRSP discusses how gender
issues will be mainstreamed in various sectors. Girls education will be promoted through scholarship
programs and greater hiring of female teachers. The Essential Health Care package will have a strong
focus on maternal and reproductive healthand the community user group approachto expand drinking
water has explicit provisions for the involvement of women. Similarly, programs to promote the
inclusion of marginalized ethnic groups will be developed within each sector's main programs.

28.      Zmproving governance: Recognizing that governance improvements are essential if reforms to
stimulate pro-poor growth and improve service delivery are to have their desired impact, the PRSP
develops both cross-cutting and sector-specific governance improvement strategies. Cross-cutting
themes include: (i)  improving the effectiveness of the civil service; (ii)strengthening anti-corruption
and accountability institutions; and (iii)improving the functioning of key agencies; and (iv) improving
financial management and procurement practices. These economy-wide governance improvement
efforts will be complemented with measures in core sectors including the financial sector,
infrastructure, health and education. The progress made in tackling governance concerns in the
financial sector (see below for further details) i s a testimony to HMGN's commitment to move
steadily on this front.

29.      As a strategic document, the PRSP is far more credible than the past plan documents.
Although it stands on the extension of the traditional five-year plan process, there are at least three
things that distinguish this strategy from recent five-year plans. First, although the underlying Tenth
Plan is voluminous, HMGN was able to use the PRSP to extract only priority issues and programs.
This sense of priority reflects muchstronger concerns about poverty reduction and social inclusion, no
doubt sharpened by the experience of the insurgency. Second, the PRSP i s linked with the Medium-
TermExpenditure Framework (MTEF) which was introducedin 2002/03. The MTEFi s now accepted




                                                    8

by line ministries as a serious prioritization framework with a strong focus on performance and will
thus help focus public resources on PRSP-driven priorities. Third, in 2002, HMGN adopted the
"Immediate Action Plan" (IAP), to bolster its track record of reform implementation. HMGN's
success in using the first IAP to focus on the implementation of a few key measures has set a
precedent of developing realistic annual targets that are necessary for the implementationof the PRSP
inthe years ahead.


                        IV. ReformsSupportedby the ProposedCredit

Reforms to Restore Broad-based Growth

30.     HMGNhas embarked on a reform agenda that will boost various possible sources of pro-poor
growth. The key reforms relate to: (i)  maintaining macro-economic stability and increasing the fiscal
space for growth enhancing and pro-poor expenditures and (ii)    improving the investment climate for
private-sector led growth. Increasing fiscal space will generate greater public investment in key
growth-enhancing sectors and improve the returns to private investment. Improving the investment
climate will lead to greater private investment in both the rural economy as well as in the
manufacturing and services sector. Peace is clearly critical for sustained growth. The implementation
of the reform agenda will also contribute to gains in total factor productivity and boost long term
growth prospects. The key drivers of pro-poor growth are expected to be through improved
agricultural productivity, investment in the non-farm rural sector, light manufacturing exports and
tourism (see Box 1).




                               e peaceprocesswill

            .Remittanceshave




                                                   9

Creating Fiscal Space

31.      Creating the necessary fiscal space to increasepublic investments in growth-enhancing sectors
as well as improving the effectiveness of these investments is a key government priority. Inorder to
create this fiscal space, HMGN has maintained a prudent macro-economic stance (see Economic
Context section), increased domestic revenue mobilization efforts, pruned unnecessary expenditures,
improved expenditure management (see Governance reform section on improving public financial
management) and taken steps to limit the fiscal burden caused by public enterprises. A fiscal
sustainability exercise, carried out by the IMF, suggests that public debt dynamics would remain
manageableunder various plausible macro-economic scenarios (see Box 2). Inorder to ensure that the
composition of external debt remains concessional, HMGN's Foreign Aid Policy bans all new
suppliers credits.




32.      Domestic revenues have increased by 1.6% of GDP between 1999/00 and 2002/03. This
increase i s due to measures to improve domestic resource mobilization including (i)the
implementation of the 2000 Income Tax Act, (ii)       broadening the income and VAT tax base, (iii)
expansion of ASYCUDA for customs and (iv) the creation of an integrated Inland Revenue
Department. A Fiscal Commission was established in late 2002 to devise measures to streamline
taxation procedures, promote exports and reduce the personal income tax burden at lower income
levels. Key reforms that were proposed by the Commission and implemented in the 2003/04 Budget
include: (i) eliminating VAT exemptions for edible oils; (ii)reduction in import duty rates (consistent
with WTO accession requirements) offset by increases in excises; (iii)    elimination of export service
charges and reduction in export taxes; and (iv) an increase in the income tax exemption threshold
together with a widening of the lowest tax bracket.

33.      Following on from the recommendations of the Public Expenditure Review Commission,
Nepal has taken the first steps towards the development of a credible Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF).The main focus in 2002/03 was in the prioritization of the development budget
into three `priority categories' - P1, P2 and P3 projects. The significance of the priority classification
i s that high priority projects (60% of the development budget in FY03) will now receive first priority
in the allocation of funds. HMGN intends to extend the expenditure prioritization process over the
medium run by further cuts in low-priority projects. The MTEF process will also be extended to
prioritize recurrent expenditures, although this distinction i s somewhat blurred currently in Nepal,
given that a sizeable share of development projects include recurrent expenditures.

34.       Inorder to create more roomfor pro-poorprojects, HMGNdropped 160low priority, HMGN-
funded projects from the development budget in 2002/03. This redressed the sharp growth in the
number of projects inthe development budget -from 423 in 1993/94 to 770 in 1998/99 -that resulted
in too many projects chasing too little money. Overall, the share of education, health and drinking




                                                    10

water increased from 21% of public expenditures in 1998/99 to 24% in 2003/04. The prioritization
exercise has also led to a shift towards greater pro-poor programs within sectors. For instance, within
the education sector budget, the share of primary education increasedfrom 44% in 1999/00 to 55% in
2002/03. In the health sector, the share devoted to preventative health care increased from 26% in
2001/02 to 40% in 2002103. Ina context where security spending has had to increase, by about 1%of
GDP in the past two years, it is noteworthy both that pro-poor spending has been protected and that
the share of security spending inthe Budget is still far below most neighboringcountries.

35.       Budgetary transfers to Nepal's parastatalshave averaged 1.8 percent of GDP for the last three
years. HMGN has moved to reduce the fiscal burden of public enterprises by establishing a hiring
freeze. HMGN intends to progressively reduce its level of budgetary transfers over the next few years.
Inan effort to improve corporate governance, HMGNhas removed many political appointees from
public enterprise management and begun to replace them with professional managers recruited from
the private sector. An arrears reconciliation exercise took place between Government and three
parastatals (telecoms, electricity and water) in 2002/03 with a partial clearing of arrears. The
remaining stock of arrears is expectedto be cleared by HMGNin2003/04.

36.       The privatization process has gained some momentumwith the privatization of ButwalPower
Company in early 2003. HMGNhas also slated a further eight parastatalsfor privatizatiodliquidation
and has started the liquidations of Hetauda Textiles, Nepal Coal and Cottage Handicrafts. The Birgunj
Sugar Mill and the Agricultural Tool Factory have been dissolved under the Privatization Act and
HMGNis off-loading its shares inHimal Cement Factory. HMGNintends to buildon this momentum
inthe coming years and has announcedthe privatization of the Bhaktapur Bricks Factory, the Nepal
Foundry, and the Pokhara Milk Supply Scheme. Bidding documents have also been prepared for
Hetauda Cement, Lumbini Sugar, and Nepal Rosin and Turpentine Factory and a decision on their
privatizationis expected shortly.

37.       The total costs of adjustment in the first wave of eight parastatals, i s estimated to be in the
order of US$47.4 million, composed of severancerelated costs of US$18.5 million and other liabilities
of US$28.9 million. Current uncertainty over these estimates will be resolved through increased
audits. HMGNintends to complete an annual audit inevery parastatal and has gradually increased the
number of annual public enterprise audits from 16 in 1998 to 27 in 2002 out of a total of 43
parastatals.This measurewould allow government to finally get an accurateestimate of the contingent
liabilities involved in adjustment. The ADB i s supporting this process of public enterprise reform
through a budget support operation.

38.       InMarch2003, HMGNdecided to brave the political consequencesof raisingfuel prices, to
levels comparable to those in India, in order to stem the potential impact of the Nepal Oil
Corporation's (NOC) losses on the Budget.At the time, the retail prices were not covering the import,
transportation, distribution, and other supply costs of the petroleum products. Further, because the
retail prices inNepal were lower than those in India,3 a significant amount of products was smuggled
back to India, exacerbating NOC's financial problem. As a result, NOC, which made a profit of 2.9
billion rupees in 2001/02, reportedly suffered a loss of 4 billion rupees (almost 1percent of GDP) in
the one year prior to the price increase. NOC used its reserves to fund these losses and took out
commercial loans. The timely price hikeprevented an imminent fiscal bail-out.




 Prior to the March2003 fuel priceincrease, kerosenewas pricedat the equivalent of 28 rupeesper liter in Indiaand only 17
inNepal-dieselwas pricedat 26.5 rupeesinNepalandthe equivalent of 33 Nepalirupees inIndia.




                                                         11

39.     While the immediate fiscal concern may have been tackled, there remains an unfinished
medium run reform agenda in the petroleum sector. HMGN introduced a dual price system for
kerosene. Experience in other countries suggests that the dual price system i s most likely to lead to
significant leakage, diverting rationed kerosene intended for household use to the automotive diesel
sector and nominally inflating its demand. On the positive side, the price gap between market and
rationed kerosene has been narrowed. While there i s no immediate fiscal concern in the petroleum
sector at present, a medium term concern would be that, should the border prices rise to those
observed in April 2003, NOC could again suffer a significant financial loss. Hence the dual kerosene
price structure needs to be phased out over time. An analysis o f the poverty impact of eliminating the
kerosene subsidy (see Annex 11) shows that an increase o f Rs. 4 per liter (the price difference between
subsidized and market kerosene in June 2003) i s anticipated to have a negligible impact (about 0.3
percent) on the household budget o f the bottom three deciles. In 2003/04, HMGN will move to an
automatic price adjustment mechanism using a transparent pricing formula, as in Pakistan and Sri
Lanka. In the medium to long term, the government will liberalize the sector and introduce
competition by issuing an Act for sector deregulation and establishing an independent regulatory
agency4.

40.     The medium term fiscal framework i s based on the discussion above and i s based on the
understanding reached with a joint IMF-World Bank mission in September 2003. Table 3 below i s
premised on the following assumptions:

    0   Higher capital and current expenditures: Development spending i s projected to increase over
        the medium term in line with PRSP priorities. The Government may also initiate new
         development projects and expand or fully implement existing ones if relative peace returns
         quickly5. Hence, development spending i s projected to rise by 1.4% of GDP by 2005/06,
         compared to estimated levels for 2002/03. Current spending i s also projected to increase by
         1.5% o f GDP in 2003/04 compared to the previous year in light of higher recurrent spending
         inhealthand education; higher wage allocation for security personnel; and allocations for the
         clearance o f utility arrears and contingent liabilities o f public enterprises.


    0   Increased development spending combined with structural reforms can help in moving
         towards MDG goals: An initial attempt at costing the MDG goals i s underway and
        preliminary results, suggesting that there i s need for a significant increase in resource
         mobilization to meet these targets, are in line with recent cross-country estimates6. However,
         these estimates are also very sensitive to assumptions regarding the poverty elasticity o f
         growth, income distribution and the incremental capital output ratio, which in turn are affected
        by structural reforms. The medium term fiscal framework presented in Table 3 envisages an
         increase in development spending commensurate with Nepal's implementation capacity and
         assumes that structural reforms to improve the investment climate and reduce exclusion will
         improve the efficiency by which this additional spending i s translated into development
         outcomes.



4Anumber of issues would need to be carefully considered in preparing the bill and accompanying regulations:
competitive procurement o f petroleum products, the future of the infrastructure facilities currently belonging to
NOC, requirements for market entry, and anti-trust regulations, to mention a few.
 For instance implementation of road constructionprojects was slow due to the concerns of storing and using
explosives during the conflict.
 See Devarajan, Miller and Swanson (2002) "Goalsfor Development: History, Prospects and Costs." World
Bank, Policy ResearchWorking Paper.




                                                      12

         Reduced domestic borrowing and higher foreign financing: The medium term framework
         envisages a reduction in domestic borrowing to 0.6% of GDP in 2005/06, compensated by a
         larger share of foreign financing.


    0    Higher domestic revenue effort: The medium term framework envisages a 1.1%increase in
         domestic revenue, as a share of GDP, by 2005/06 (from 12.3% in 2002/03 to 13.4% in
         2005106). This target is based on revenue administration reforms and rationalization of VAT
         and customs exemptions, described earlier.


                                  Table 3: MediumTermFiscalFramework

                                                              2002/03            2003/04    2004/05      200306
                                                            Budget   Estimate            Staff Projection

                                                                          (Inpercentof GDP)

        Total revenue                                         11.9       12.3          12.4        12.8      13.4
          Tax revenue                                          9.8        9.4          9.9         10.7      11.3
          Nontax revenue                                       2.1        2.8          2.5         2.0       2.1
        Grants                                                 3.1        2.2          2.7         3.1        2.8
        Total expenditure                                     18.4       16.3          18.7        18.5      18.2
          Current                                             13.0       11.6          13.1        12.5      12.1
            Ofwhich: Interest payment                          1.7        1.5           1.6         1.6       1.6
          Capital andnet lending                               5.4        4.7          5.6         6.0        6.1
        Overallbalancebefore grants                           -6.5       -4.0          -6.3        -5.7      -4.8
        Overallbalanceafter grants                            -3.4       -1.9          -3.6        -2.6      -2.0

        Financing                                              3.4        1.9           3.1         2.6       2.0
          Net foreign loans                                    1.4        0.7           1.4         1.3       1.4
            Gross disbursements                                2.6        1.9           2.6         2.7       2.7
                 Ofwhich: IDA budget support                                            1.1
          Net domestic financing                               2.1        1.2           1.7         1.3       0.6


        Sources: IMF




Improving the Investment Climate

41.      A lasting peace will help attract investment as all sectors have been disrupted due to the
conflict. In addition to insecurity, a recent Investment Climate Assessment7also pointed to: (i)                 high
transport costs; (ii)   deficiencies in access to power and telecom services; (iii)weak financial sector;
                                                                                           a
(iv) rigid labor laws and (v) excessive government bureaucracy and corruption as impediments to
increasing investment. Below, we review the issues that constrain the investment climate for both
agricultural and non-agricultural growth (transport costs, power, the financial sector and
telecommunications), discuss proposed reforms in the delivery of agricultural services and finally
move onto one specific constraint on the manufacturing and service sector - labor regulations. The
section on governance discusses measures to reduce corruption and improve the effectiveness of key
public agenciesthat will also contribute to improving the investment climate.



 Biggs et al(2000) `The Business Environment and Manufacturing Perfoimance in Nepal' World Bank1Federationof
Nepalese Chambers of Commerceand Industry.




                                                        13

42.        Broad-based growth will require raising the productivity of agriculture and stimulating off-
farm employment. The three-pronged strategy to do so, articulated in the PRSP, aims at removing the
bottlenecks that constrain the investment climate in the rural sector (e.g. poor physical infrastructure,
limited access to credit, unreliable power supply), improving the effectiveness of agricultural services
(extension, research and irrigation) and strengthening public expenditure management in the
agricultural sector (see sections on `creating fiscal space' and `governance'). This follows a series of
first generation reforms that have liberalized input and output markets and greatly reduced policy
distortions. On the agriculture input side, the subsidy on urea was completely phased out in 1999while
subsidies on other fertilizer types were removed earlier in 1997. More importantly, the relinquishment
of the government monopoly on fertilizer transport and distribution to the private sector has led to
greater fertilizer use8.However, fertilizer use is sharply correlated with distance to markets as are crop
sales, crop diversification and the use of modern technology. The level of commercialization and the
productivity of Nepal's agro-processing industry is also low by regional standardsg.Hence improving
access to physical infrastructure, improved power supply and greater access to telecom services i s an
essentialpart of a pro-poor rural growth strategy.

43.        Improving the effectiveness of agricultural services: There is also a clear need to improve the
effectiveness of extension, research and irrigation services. Extension services are beingdecentralized
to the district level and contracting-out pilots are in place for both extension and research services.
HMGNexpects to expand the contracting out of these services to the private sector and NGO's, with
greater involvement of farmer's groups, in line with its Agriculture Perspective Plan (APP). HMGN
will also scale up its programs that promote crop diversification and more intensive farming practices
through appropriate water management and extension activities - for instance the `On Farm Water
Management' program will be expanded from the current nine districts to twenty districts. Agriculture
researchi s being administered by a newly createdNational Agricultural Development Fundwhich will
be given autonomy in 2003104 and made more demand-driven. Only 15 percent of Nepal's cultivable
land is under year-round irrigation partly due to poor recovery of operations and maintenance costs in
surface irrigation systems. HMGN is in the process of revising the current Irrigation Regulations in
order for water users to impose sanctions on irrigation water charge defaulters. A process of
contracting out the management of mediudlarge scale irrigation projects to the private sector will be
initiated by mid 2004. Moreover the subsidy for shallow tubewells was eliminated in 2000 but they
remain for deep and mediumsized tubewells. Inorder to ensure rational investment decisions HMGN
will review the existing incentive structure for irrigation.

44.        Nepal has taken important steps to increase trade and competitiveness. Nepal has one of the
most liberal trade regimes inthe region - the average tariff, after a decade of reductions, stands at only
 14% (and a top rate of 30%) compared to 40% in 1990and 32%, currently, in India. Along with trade
liberalization, important steps to promote domestic competitiveness has contributed to the respectable
export-led growth rates witnessed in the 1990s (see Economic Context section). The industrial sector
has been largely deregulated, reductions in corporate and trade taxes have taken place and private
sector participation in infrastructure provision i s encouraged. The Government has taken impressive
steps over the past year to accelerate the procedures for market entry". A new Bankruptcy Bill i s
being drafted to facilitate exit. In September 2003, Nepal completed negotiations to join the World
Trade Organization (WTO).

  Fertilizer use increasedfrom an average of 28kghectare for a four year periodprior to 1997 to an average of 43 kghectare
between 1998-2000.
  See F.Shilpi (2003) `Nepal'sAccession to WTO: Constraintsand Optionsfor Improving Agricultural Competitiveness'
World Bank (draft)
loDiscussions with the private sector confirm that the registration process i s no longer a major obstacle to doing business in
Nepal-most businesses are registered within ten days.




                                                              14

45.       However, despite these reforms, productivity remains low in Nepal and the external
environment i s becoming increasingly challenging. Nepal will have to improve its competitiveness to
cope with the imminent withdrawal of the Multi-Fibre Arrangement quotas and cope with WTO
accession issues. Recent analytical work on trade and competitiveness" point to constraints found by
the Investment Climate Assessment (transports costs, access to power and telecommunications, the
financial sector and labour rigidities) that are discussed below. In addition, there are certain trade-
specific constraints; a key one being the need to addressing delays in customs and transshipment to
Kolkata port. It i s clear that piecemeal reform in Customs will not be effective given the nexus
between governance, infrastructure and customs procedures in reducing these delays. Hence, HMGN
i s embarking on a multi-faceted program of customs reform by: (i)                  introducing more selectivity in
customs inspections; (ii)         harmonizing its trade classification with the Indian EDIFACT system to
facilitate transshipment; (iii)      re-drafting the Customs provisions to make them consistent with WTO
provisions; (iv) developing a code of conduct specific to Customs employees; and (iv) creating a post-
entry valuation section.

46.       Lowering transport costs: Nepal's landlocked and mountainous terrain mean that high
transport costs are a key constraint to agricultural productivity and manufacturing exports". While the
density of the road network i s still very low (0.1 km per square km), significant rehabilitation work,
has resulted in a strategic road network that has been brought up to a maintainable condition. Hence
the establishment of the National Roads Board in late 2002 i s a critical and timely reform as cross-
country experience shows that the quality of the road maintenance expenditures improves with this
form of institutional arrangement. This is particularly important in the case of Nepal, as the PER
highlighted the significant under-fundingof operations and maintenance inthe road sector. Inorder to
carry this process forward it i s important that the fuel levy receipts are channeled to the Roads Board
in a timely manner. However, while improving road maintenance is critical, increasing the road
network is equally important for both rural farm and off-farm activities and further development of
tourism. In this context, HMGN has developed a sequenced plan to connect all district headquarters
and responsibilities for local road and trail development are being devolved to the district level. In
addition to a more extensive, better maintained road network, a recent study13 highlighted the
importance of Inland Container Depots (ICDs) in reducing the cost of transport for Nepali exports.
Two inland container depots are now managed and operated by private terminal operators and by mid
2004 it is expected that the Sirsiya ICD, with a direct link to the Indian railway system, will also begin
operations contributing to lowering the cost of international transit.

47.       Improving access and reliability of power: In view of Nepal's physical characteristics and
abundance of water resources, hydropower is a key potential source of growth for Nepal. However,
less than 2% of Nepal's hydropower generation capacity has thus far been de~eloped'~.Around 25%
of the populationhave access to electricity but disparities are stark with over 90% of urban households
connected incontrast to an estimated 14% in rural areas. Another key issue inthe power sector i s the
relatively high cost of electricity inNepal compared to its South Asian neighbors - this is due both to
technical factors, notably the capital intensive nature of hydropower development involving high
upfront costs15and to inefficiencies within the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA). It i s clear that the



l2 The share of transports costs inexports are around 50% more than other competitorcountries - see 'Nepal Tradeand
   'Nepal: Integrated Framework Study' (HMGNI World Bank2003).

Competitiveness Study' (World Bank 2003) for more details.
l3 Subramanianandh o l d (2001) 'Forging SubregionalLinks inTransportationandLogisticsinSouthAsia'
l4 Out of ahydropower generationcapacity estimatedat 43,000 MW, only about 522 MW havebeendevelopedwith around
119MW underconstruction.
l5 About 80% of power generationi s hydro-basedwhich is significantly more expensivethan thermal generation; small size
of generationunits andthe lack of inter-connectionsall contributeto highcosts.




                                                            15

investment requirements to significantly expand access to power i s beyond the capacity of HMGN or
the NEA. Hence, Cabinet approval of the Hydropower Development Policy in 2001 was an important
step as it paved the way for private sector operators inelectricity generation and distribution - there are
now three Independent Power Producers operating in Nepal. In order to promote micro hydropower
projects in isolated rural communities, HMGN provides a one-off subsidy to private entrepreneurs.
Actions expected to take place in 2004 include the establishment of the Power Development Fundto
promote greater private sector investment, and the development of guidelines for rural electrification
schemes through cooperatives. By 2005 an independent regulatory body i s expected to be in place and
around ten community based micro-hydro schemes operational. The internal unbundling of NEA
through signing of performance contracts between the NEA managementand generation, transmission
and distribution centers -to improve the independence, authority and accountability of managers at all
levels of NEA s inprocess and i s expectedto be completed inthe short term. Improved efficiency of
               - i
NEA combined with the implementation of the Electricity Theft Control Act ought to reduce the
current system loss of 23.4% to roughly 21% by the end of 2005, contributing to the reduction in the
cost of power.

48.      Improving the effectiveness of the financial sector: The two largest commercial banks,
Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) and Nepal Bank Limited (NBL), accounting for close to 50% of
banking sector assets, have an estimated negative net worth amounting to 7-9 percent of GDPbecause
of large non-performing assets. HMGN has made it clear in its Financial Sector Strategy Statement
(2001) that the State will withdraw its ownership stake (100% in RBB and 40% in NBL)from these
two banks by seeking to fully privatize them. The road-map to achieving this `end-game' will require
HMGN deciding whether these Banks will be merged or whether they will seek private sector
participation as two separate institutions. IDA i s providing technical advice on this issue through its
Financial Sector TechnicalAssistance Project.

49.      A key reform that overcame fierce resistance was the appointment of external management
teams at NBL in mid-200216 and in RBB from January 2003. Lending by these banks was often
politically-motivatedor involved insider dealing and hence reform initiatives were resisted not only by
the banks' boards (and employee unions) but also by many well-connected borrowers. The
management teams have signed performance contracts with HMGN. Key performance benchmarks
that are being implemented are (i)improved accounting systems and compliance with disclosure
requirements (ii) implementation of a retrenchment program and a revised remuneration package and
(iii) aggressivepolicy,includinglegalaction,againstloandefaulters.Asasignofthecontinuityof
     an
the reform process, one of the first significant steps taken by the new Government was the formation
of a Loan Recovery Tribunal effective from July 16, 2003. The Tribunal i s expected to speed up the
loan recovery from the identified major defaulters in the banking sector. The current process of cost
restructuring, being implemented by the new management, is an important step towards the next phase
of balance sheet restructuringwhich will be done at the point of sale. The exact fiscal cost of bringing
these two banks to an internationally acceptable level of capital adequacy cannot be determined
precisely yet, as the balance sheet position i s being determined. However, it is clear from the very
approximate negative net worth estimates that HMGNwill not be able to carry the full burden of re-
capitalizationand external assistance, including from IDA, will be needed.

50.      Strengthening the ability of the Central Bank to carry out its core functions is also critical. The
new Nepal Rastra Bank (Central Bank) Act increases the independence and authority of the central
bank and gives NRB greater authority to supervise commercial banks, including severely punishing


l6 take
  To     over managementof the majority privately-ownedNBL, the CentralBank invokedprovisionsof the new NRB Act
andsuspendedthe NBLboard.




                                                       16

irregularities by bank officials. The Central Bank is being restructured and a process of shedding
excess labor i s currently being implemented. Further improvements in the legislative framework are
required and the Banking and Financial Institutions Ordinance, which will tighten regulatory rules
governing all deposit-taking bodies, i s expectedto be enacted shortly.

51.       Access to micro-finance and agricultural credit is an important element of rural farm and off-
farm growth. HMGN has introduced a number of important legislative changes recently to facilitate
the growth of the micro-finance sector (e.g. the Development Banking Act and the revisions to the
Financial Intermediaries Society Act). However, important reforms remain inthis sector. It i s expected
that Government representation will be withdrawn from the Boards of the Grameen Bikas Banks and
professionals appointed in their place. In the medium run, the Cooperatives Act will be amended to
address its shortcomings".

52.       Improving access to telecom services: The development of a competitive telecom sector, with
wide outreach, i s important to reduce the costs of doing business and improving access to relevant
market information. The telecom sector reform program has made significant progress over the past
year with the establishment of a regulatory body, the Nepal Telecommunications Authority (NTA),
and the undertaking of various initiatives to introduce competition such as the licensing of over 70
VSAT, radio paging, and internet service providers. It is also expected that inthe next few months, a
new board of directors will be appointed in order to convert the Nepal Telecommunications
Corporation into a Company under the Company Act. In January 2003, HMG and NTA made the
decision to re-launch the licensing of the Rural Telecommunications Service (RTS) to a private
operator for 534 rural VDCs - i.e. roughly one-fourth of all communities currently without access to
telephones. A private operator was selected in September 2003 and it i s expected that operations will
commence inthe next few months.

53.       Relieving the labor law bottleneck: A flexible labor market is important for Nepal's export and
tourism led growth prospects. Industries such as garments, hotels and restaurants need to adjust to
fluctuations in demand and require high service standards which in turn requires the ability to lay off
workers without excessive red tape and the ability to set performance based pay. The Nepalese labor
market is currently definedby some of the most rigid laws in the region that are a key impediment to
investment, dilutingthe progress made inreducingthe barriers to starting a new business.

54.       The 1992Labor Act grants "permanent" status to workers who have completed more than 240
days in a business with over ten employees. Dismissing permanent workers and/or closing failing
ventures requires the consent of the Department of Labor, a costly, lengthy and often arbitrary process.
The Act discourages informal businesses from becoming formal and/or growing beyond ten workers.
It also encouragesemployers to hire and fEe workers before they can become permanent and/or recruit
Indian workers who are unable to enforce their rights. The labor law also mandates the payment of
wages basedon hours worked, and specific job descriptions as well as annual increments which limits
transfer of employees and reduces the incentives for increased productivity. Moreover, having five
different minimum wages for different occupational categories also limits labor mobility including
from one enterprise to another within the same holding company.




l7Amendment to the Cooperatives Act need to include: (i) formation of more than one savings and credit cooperative per
                                                        the
district; (ii)
            permission for RMDC to lendto sound cooperatives that meet RMDC's lending criteria; (iii)
                                                                                                   permission for the
formation of women-only cooperatives and (iv) permit cooperatives to work in more than three VDC's.




                                                          17

55.      HMGN has committed itself to increase labor market flexibility by amending the relevant
legislation.** However, these are sensitive issues in Nepal and will require a consensus building
exercise between government, the employers and the unions. Although there was an earlier move to
amendthe labor laws by ordinance, all parties agree onthe need for constructive dialogue and the need
for parliamentary approval of any proposed amendments. Tripartite discussions are ongoing brokered
by the L O . As part of the process, an appropriate safety-net will have to be developed; hence the
earliest feasible time-frame for an amendment of the relevant laws i s mid 2004.

Reforms to Improve Service Delivery

56.      Improvements in service delivery are taking place through a gradual process of
decentralization, greater empowerment of local communities inthe management of social services and
increased private provision of social services. Greater control of resources and an improved `voice' in
local service delivery issues are important in improving the quality of local services and eventually
development outcomes. In Nepal's context, greater control of resources by communities has the added
benefit of partly addressingthe disenchantment inrural areas that fueled the insurgency.

57.      Strengthening the decentralization framework: During the past decade Nepal has taken
significant steps towards decentralization. In 1992, through separate Local Government acts for
villages, municipalities and district bodies, Village Development Committees (VDCs), District
Development Committees (DDCs), and Municipalities were created. The Local Self-Governance Act
(LSGA) came into effect in 1999 and two years later a Fiscal Commission was created to design and
implement an intergovernmental fiscal system. The key concern with the current state of affairs i s that
the terms of Local Governments have expired and elections have not been held because of security
issues. Civil servants are currently carrying out the administrative functions in the DDCs and VDCs.
InSeptember 2003, HMGNdecided to bolster implementationcapacity at the local level by filling
mayor and DDC chairmen posts on an interimbasis untillocal elections are held.

58.      However, even during this interim period the reform agenda to strengthen decentralized
service delivery i s likely to move ahead. First, the government has identified 23 sectoral acts
conflicting with the LSGA. Of these, 14 acts have been redrafted and it i s important that this exercise
be given priority since service delivery functions have already begun to be channeled through local
entities. Second, local governments inNepal currently have limited capacity infinancial management,
auditing, budgeting, and disclosure of information. Hence, a capacity building programneeds to be in
place along with measures to improve transparency. Third, current block grants do not address inter-
jurisdictional inequalities, compromising the potential role of fiscal transfers in reducing regional
disparities and inequality. Hence by mid 2004, it i s expected that HMGN will prepare a fiscal
framework in accordance with the LSGA and that piloting of this fiscal framework i s likely to take
place in2-3 districts by mid 2005.

59.      Improving the quality of education services: There has been modest progress in primary
enrollment rates and literacy over the past decade, but the quality of education remains poor. Drop-out
and repetition rates are high in primary and pass rates inpublic schools are significantly lower than in
private schools. In an effort to improve the quality of education, the 7* Amendment of Education Act
2001 provided for the devolution of school management to communities, represented by School
Management Committees (SMCs). Experience in other countries suggests that decentralization to
school management committees i s an effective mechanism to improve education quality particularly


  Relevantlegislationincludes:Labor Act 1992, LaborRules 1993,Labor Court Laws 1997,TradeUnionAct 1995,Bonus
Act 1971, IndustrialTrainingAct 1982,ForeignEmploymentAct 1985 andthe CompaniesAct.




                                                       18

when there are cohesive communities and motivated teachers". The guidelines for schools transfer to
communities or VDCs/municipalities were adopted by the Cabinet in September 2002 and thus far
over 270 schools have been transferred. These committees will oversee teacher recruitment, monitor
attendance as well as make decisions on resource utilization, all measures that are likely to improve
the quality of education, reduce drop-out rates and improve test scores. While these transfers are small
inrelation to the total number of schools inNepal (around 26000 primary schools), the importance of
these initial transfers lies in the shift in mindset that they symbolize. This `shift' away from a
`Kathmandu controlled' system to one where key decisions are made at the local level stems from a
recognition by key decision-makers that in a diverse country like Nepal, devolving authority to the
grassroots i s essential to improving the quality of services and overcoming the prevailing
disillusionment with Government services. The process of school transfers is expected to pick up pace
over the next two years2'. The Bank and HMGN are in the process of launching an assessment of the
impact of school decentralization on educational quality and outcomes which will provide feed-back
into the design of the transfer process.

60.       However, it is clear that transferring schools to communities i s only part of a wider effort to
improve education quality and redress gender, caste and ethnic disparities. Measures are being
developed to: (i)     increasethe primary scholarship amount for the first child of households from which
no member has completed primary school and none are currently attending primary school; (ii)
provide free education for first girl and first Dalit child of households from which none have
completed lower secondaryhecondary schools and none are attending lower secondary/secondary
school; and (iii)      provide an incentive grant for schools recruiting female teachers and bilingual
teachers.

61.       Improving the quality of health services: Nepal has significantly improved child survival rates,
reduced fertility and achieved gains in communicable disease control in the nineties". However
critical challenges remain, including a high maternal mortality rate of 539 per 100,000 live births,
widespread malnutrition and wide disparities in health outcomes across regions22.Weak institutional
capacity, inadequate public financing and inefficient spending, limited coverage and poor service
quality, poor value from private health spending and a difficult topography, all impact health services
and outcomes. HMGN has developed a Health Sector Strategy in 2002 to address these issues. Key
elements include (i) decentralizing service delivery; (ii)           introducing an Essential Health Care Package
that focuses on reproductive health, child health, communicable disease control and improved
outpatient services; (iii)   public-private partnerships.

62.       HMGN has already initiated action on decentralizing service delivery by handing over the
management of some 460 Sub-Health Posts (SHps) to the SHp Management Committees in eight
districts. Implementation of the Essential Health Care Package (EHSP) in twelve pilot districts in


l9See for example the experiences of Nicaragua and Pakistan (Rawlings, Laura B., 2000. "Evaluating Nicaragua`s School-
Based Management Reform." and Sedlacek, Guilheme and Pamela Hunte, 2000, "Evaluating the Impacts of
Decentralization and Community Participation on Educational Quality and the Participation of Girls in Pakistan". In
Michael Bamberger, ed., "lntegrating Quantitative and Qualitative Methods in Development Research" World Bank, Poverty
Reduction and Economic Management Network, Gender Division, Washngton, D.C.)
2oB y mid2004, it is expected that there will be an additional 1,000primary schools, 200lower secondary schools and 100
secondary schools transferred to community management. By the end o f FY 2005, the transfer of an additional 2000 primary
schools, 400 lower secondary schools and 200 secondary schools to community management i s expected to take place.
21Between 1990 and2000, infant mortality declined from 107 to 64 per 1000live births and fertility rate by over a child from
5.6 to 4.1 children per woman. Effective TB treatment is available in about 90% o f the country, and polio i s almost
eradicated.
22For example, life expectancy at birthranges from 74 years in Kathmandu to only 37 years in the mountainous Mugu
district.




                                                              19

2003/04 will precede a wider roll-out in subsequent years. HMGNintends to improve the management
of hospitals by contracting out two district hospitals to the private sector by 2004 and another four by
2005.

63.        Improving the effectiveness of drinking water services: The PRSP estimates the national water
supply coverage at about 71% and sanitation at 25% with considerable regional variations. One of the
key constraints facing the sector is a multitude of service delivery actors23and HMGNi s inthe process
of revising the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Policy to clarify the various roles and
responsibilities in line with the emphasis on decentralized service delivery. A draft Act i s also being
prepared to make the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board an autonomous
agency. Inorder to redress the poor management of urban water supply inKatmandu, the Government
has revised the Nepal Water Supply Corporation Act which paves the way for a private operator to
manage water supply and sanitation operations in the valley. Once a private operator i s in place in
Kathmandu, HMGN will take the necessary steps to introduce private sector participation in towns
outside the valley. The formulation of a new Municipal Service Act to establish a National Regulatory
Board and a KathmanduValley Water Authority i s also inprogress.

Reforms to Promote Social Inclusion

64.        The reforms neededto improve social inclusion inNepal and promote greater equity in access
to resources, opportunity and voice, are structural innature. They reflect a shift in deep seated gender,
ethnic and caste-basedsocial hierarchies and they cannot be expectedto occur with the stroke of a pen.
But since the reinstatement of democracy in 1990there is greater openness to a diverse array of civil
society voices - includingthose of historically marginalized groups. Moreover, the steady critique of
the old "feudal" system coming from the armed rebels has createdconsiderable public momentumfor
change. Evidence for this is inrecent (September 2002) amendment to the `Mulki Ain' (national code)
inheritance laws which, though still not fully equitable to women, did widen the conditions under
which they can inherit parental or spousal property. There was a fierce battle in Parliament over this,
but compromises were made and some important changes have materialized in women's access to
productiveresources.

65.        This momentum for change i s strongly reflected in the PRSP and the range of strategies it
proposes for overcoming the culturally embedded barriers to equity of access which are increasingly
seen by reformers in government as perpetuating the basis for violent conflict. Among the specific
measures outlined are targeted programs that will be implemented to improve access to education for
girls and children from minority households (see section on `improving education quality' for further
details). Women and ethnic minorities are also under-representedinthe civil service. HMGN, with the
support of donors such as UNDP, and ADB are in the process of developing an Affirmative Action
Planto improvethe gender diversity inthe civil service.

66.        A key element in the overall approach to social inclusion is the Poverty Alleviation Fund
(PAF). The PAF can be seen as a direct targeted effort to reverse the vicious cycle of social exclusion
poverty and conflict. HMGNenvisages the PAF to: (i)               fund community projects with an emphasis on


23The principalpublic sector institutionsare the Department of Water Supply andSewerage (DWSS), the NepalWater
Supply Corporation(NWSC) and the RuralWater Supply andSanitationFundDevelopmentBoard(the Board)reportingto
the Ministry of PhysicalPlanningandWorks (MPPW).A recent additionto the institutional frameworkis the District
InfrastructureDevelopmentOffices(DIDO) inthe Ministry of Local Development set up to assist District Development
Committees (DDCs) inproviding communitybased water supply and sanitation services. Thus, with DIDO officesin75
districts there are now 150CentralGovemmentofficesinthe sector.Moreover,there are many non-govemmentalagencies
(VNGOs)programsproviding ruralwater supply and sanitationservicesandthe sector has over twenty donors.




                                                            20

conflict-affected areas; (ii) a single instrument where different development partners can come
                            create
together in a coordinated manner; and (iii)  demonstrate to the numerous stakeholders innovative and
effective ways of reaching poor and excluded groups. To achieve the above objectives, the PAF will
target some of the poorest villages inNepal and will be implemented by communities themselves with
the support of NGOs. The PAF ought to contribute to the harmonization agenda as donors can come
together in a coordinated fashion to support targeted anti-poverty programs inNepal.

67.      International experience has shown that social fund type institutions operate effectively with
an autonomous board, with limited government representation and the draft PAF ordinance provides
for such an arrangement. The PAF would operate through a lean structure with limited staff on
competitive salaries. HMGN has approved the draft ordinance and appointed the Executive Vice-
Chairmanof the new autonomousboardrecently.


Reforms to Improve Governance

68.     There i s a wide consensus that improving governance i s a crucial requirement for
improvements in pro-poor growth and in service delivery. HMGN's strategy to improve governance
includes: (i) improving financial management and procurement practices; (ii)strengthening anti-
corruption and accountability institutions; (iii)
                                                improvingthe effectiveness of the civil service; and (iv)
improving the functioning of key agencies. These components are clearly inter-linked; for instance
technical measures to improve the financial management system need to be reinforced with incentives
and sanctions that ensure compliance by strengthening the civil service and enhancing the credibility
of anti-corruption bodies.

69.     Public financial management: A joint HMGN-IDA Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) was carried out in 2001/02 and HMGN has begun implementing its key
recommendations (see Box 3), monitoredregularly by a high-level committee chaired by the Financial
Comptroller General. The CFAA indicates that although there are significant weaknesses in Nepal's
public financial accountability system, the foundations for reform are in place. Nepal has an
impressive legal and regulatory fiduciary framework but fiduciary risk in Nepal remains high
primarily due to the lack of compliance with existing regulations. The reforms discussed below, and
elaborated in Annex IV, are part of an integrated strategy to strengthen the financial management
systemas well as the incentives for compliance.




                                                   21

70.       Tying budgets with perj4omzance: A far-reaching reform that started in 2002/03, stemming
from the CFAA, is the development of detailed work-programs and physical performance targets for
each project in the development budget. The extent of physical progress, the amount of money spent
and the priority level of the project i s now usedas the basis for the subsequent trimester's fund release.
This has instituteda clear rule for fundrelease, replacing the ad-hoc politically influenced fundrelease
system that the 2000 PER describes as `)perhaps the most significant procedural factor affecting
project implement~tion"~~.           Moreover, this form of monitoring will facilitate the preparation of
reimbursement claims to donor agencies and help improve aid disbursements.

71.       Improvingfinancial transparency: HMGNis committed to publicly sharing budgetary data in
the public domain and in this spirit discussed the 2002/03 mid-year Budget review with the media. At
the local level, District Development Offices have started publishing their annual work programs,
budgets and amount spent. An expenditure tracking survey was piloted by HMGN for the education
sector in 2002/03 and the results have recently been discussed with the education sector. HMGN plans
to expand the number of sectors covered under future expenditure tracking surveys and will make
theman integralpart of the PRSPmonitoringprocess.

72.       Improving accounting and auditing practices: HMGN i s in the process of creating an
autonomous Financial Accounting Standards Board and Board of Auditing Standards that will
formulate appropriate accounting standards inorder for the public and private sectors to move towards
internationally recognized accounting standards. A new Chart of Accounts i s being designed in line
with the I M F ' s General Financial Statistics classification and i s expected to be piloted from the
2004/05 Budget. The Auditor General's accounts will be audited by a reputable external auditor and
an external audit of the Central Bank will be carried out in2003/04, in line with the recommendations
of the IMF Safeguards Assessment.

73.       Procurement reform: Greater transparency in public procurement is also an essential part of
improving financial management. A recent Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was
conducted and while waiting for the new Procurement Law to be drafted and approved, the Financial
Administrative Regulations were amended in September 2003 in order to: (i)                      include sufficient time
for bid advertisement and preparation; (ii)             prohibit post bid negotiations with any bidder and (iii)
ensure that the lowest evaluated bidder be awarded a contract based on criteria that includes not only
price, but also experience, capacity etc. Mediumrun measures are expected to include: (i)                      enactment
of a new Procurement Law based on the UNICTRAL, model law for procurement; (ii)                          the creation of
an independent procurement agency with functions to be defined by the new Procurement Law; and
(iii) widespreadprocurementrelatedtraininginthecivilservice.
      more

74.       Anti-corruption measures: HMGN has taken significant preventive measures to stem
corruption. New legislation, particularly the Prevention of Corruption Act, has given the Commission
for the Investigationof Abuse of Authority (CIAA) the power to initiate cases against all top officials,
including the Prime Minister and his Cabinet, without the need to secure permission. The CIAA is
enjoying increased status and prestige and, empowered by the recent legislation, has recently initiated
a number of high-profile anticorruption cases.25Over the last two years, the number of complaints
coming to the CIAA has increased by 194percent, and the disposal of cases has increased by over 300
percent. The number of new court cases filed on corruption related charges has increased by over 12
times (albeit from a very low base) and i s set to double again this year. In order to enhance its


24World Bank (2000) `NepalPublic Expenditure Review', Volume 1page 18.
25The CIAA has filed charges against three former ministers, 22 MoF civil servants, the Executive Directorof the national
airline and the Joint Secretary of the Ministry of Physical Planning.




                                                               22

effectiveness, the CIAA i s developing an electronic database to track complaints and monitor action;
improving training for its officers (mostly on deputation from other Ministries) in interrogation and
prosecution techniques; and trying to secure better facilities by mid-2004. The CIAA has recently
produced a five year strategy to guide the agency's expansion. Future priorities will include
strengthening the CIAA's presence at the district level and addressing the backlog of earlier cases
currently pending within thejustice system.

75.       HMGN has also recently established a National Vigilance Center (NVC) located within the
Prime Minister's Office, which i s tasked with advancing the anticorruption agenda within HMGN.
The NVC has broad responsibilities, ranging from strengthening prevention and raising public
awareness to monitoring the performance of corruption prone departments. A newly-constituted
inquiry commission, headedby a supreme courtjudge, has been given sweeping powers to investigate
the property of political leaders and bureaucrats. It has ordered about 500 public office holders-
includingthe PrimeMinister and other Ministers-to                disclose details of properties they own.

76.       Civil service reform: The core civil service in Nepal comprises 106,000 positions, or roughly
0.4 civil servants per hundred population, which in per capita terms is one of the smallest in both
South Asia and the developing world. The actual numbers are even lower, as the estimated vacancy
rate is around 16 percent. The composition of Nepal's civil service is particularly skewed towards the
lower tiers, with a much smaller number of senior administrative staff than in India and relatively
more civil servants at the lowest Classless level (e.g. peon, driver, guard, etc).                      26  Accountability
mechanisms have historically been weak, performance and productivity low, and political interference
indaily operations achronic problemoftentranslating into frequent transfers of staff.

77.       Inorder to improve the efficiency and accountability of the civil service, the government has
taken several important actions. A complete Personnel Information System (PIS) has been developed
with support from the ADB. In spite of resistance from various ministries, Cabinet ordered the
elimination of approximately 7,500 vacant positions in late 2002 out of a total of 17,000 (as of
September 2003, over 6000 of these positions had actually been eliminated.) A partial decompression
of salaries took place in mid 2000, though the salary structure remains very compressed. There have
also been significant steps towards reducing politically-motivated transfers in government and as a
result the number of transfers has almost halved inthe last three years2'.

78.       Further actions planned include connecting the PIS to the payroll system to create a
comprehensive human resource database (essential for tracking posts, vacancies, transfers, and
forecasting future salary and pension liabilities). The PIS will shortly be expanded to cover the
approximately 106,000 teachers and eventually extended to cover the police and armed forces. HMGN
i s currently considering an ordinance that will delineate more clearly the roles of civil servants and
politicians in administration, thereby reducing the scope for political interference. It i s also taking
measures to make the "advisor" function more transparent. Outsourcing of selected support activities;
a position reclassification exercise to permit greater decompression of salaries; and selective
elimination of remaining vacant positions are planned by mid-2004. Transfer data will be publicly
reported inorder to promote greater transparency in 2004. Various measures to enhance the ethnic and
gender balance of the civil service are also under consideration (see section on `Promoting social
inclusion').




26 Source: IMF (2002) `The Civil Service Sector :Key Issues and Reform Plans' Nepal Selected Issues Paper.
27 The number of transfers has been substantially reduced inthe last three fiscal years: from4.497 in FYOO to 2967 in FYOl
and2553 inFY02(Source: ADB Governance ReformProgram).




                                                             23

79.       Agency reform: The government has also taken action to improve the functioning of key
agencies. Govemance Reform Units (GRUs) have been established in three ministries to advance
reforms in individual line departments, and they will be expanded to other ministries over the course
of the next year. In the Income Tax Department, for example, the assessment, collection, and audit
functions have been separated to prevent all three tasks from being concentrated in the hands of a
single officer, as was the case earlier. The Income Tax Department has introduced a citizens' charter
but this needs to be revised based on stakeholder consultation to reduce the time-limits for receiving
refunds, tax-payer identity cards, and to clarify grievance redressal procedures2*.Other agencies with
large public interface where service delivery gains could be made by mid 2004 are in land and
property registration as well as passports. Improvements in other functions of district administration
are expectedby mid2005.

80.       Access to information: Major measures introduced to promote transparency include the
passage of a Political Party Law in 2002 requiring the Auditor-General to audit the accounts of all
parties; a decision to open up FM radio programming to both private and community participation;
and the establishment of a National Vigilance Center in the Prime Minister's Office. These steps will
be furthered by public reportingof audit findings relatingto political parties; creating a web-portal for
HMGN (initially with links to other departments, forms, information on schemes and programs, and
an official directory) by end 2003; drafting Freedom of Information (FOI) legislation, based on wide
public consultation, by mid2004; and institutional strengthening of the National Vigilance Center also
by mid2004.

                                               V. TheProposed Credit

The World Bank's Assistance Strategy

81.       A Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report (CAS-PR) for Nepal was discussed at the
Board in December 2002. The CAS-PR outlined the rationale for remaining in the low case of IDA
lending since the time of the previous full CAS in 1998 and proceeded to argue the case for moving
Nepal to a base case lending scenario. This shift to the base case was endorsedby the Board in light of
the significant reform initiatives taken by HMGN over the past twelve months (see previous section
for details) and the consequent achievement of the majority of base case triggers.

82.       The CAS-PR confirmed that the key elements of the earlier full CAS remain valid with the
Bank continuing to act as a change agent to: (i)catalyze the necessary policy reforms required to
generate growth and improve service delivery through greater emphasis on programmatic lending and
relevant analytical work; (ii)      strengthen the focus on creating an improved governance framework both
through policy dialogue and as conditions for accessing IDA resources; and (iii)                        build human and
physical capitalthrough an appropriate mix of technical assistanceand investment projects in selective
sectors where IDA has a comparative advantage.

83.       A full CAS i s currently under preparation and will be discussedat the Board at the same time
as the proposed PRSC. The full CAS articulates the importance of moving towards a more
"programmatic" approach inresponse to HMGN's request for budgetary assistanceto help implement
its reform program. In addition, the strategy envisions the continued use of traditional investment
lending for community-based projects and for piloting/testing new instruments--e.g., a Second Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Project using a community-demand driven approach in poor rural areas,
a Nepal Community School Support Project to support the devolution of schools, a Health Sector


28There i s a weekly public hearing to resolve issues but the current charter makes no reference to it.




                                                               24

Program Project to support the implementation of the Essential Health Care package and a Poverty
Alleviation Fund Project to channel resources to the poorest of communities. Moreover, through a
number of on-going operations - such as the Rural Infrastructure Project, Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation, and Irrigation Sector Development - community-driven approaches have been tested, local
capacity strengthenedand valuable lessonslearnt towards improving service delivery at the local level.

84.     Analytical work: The reforms underway draw on a wide variety of formal and informal
analytical sources. World Bank involvement in analytical work includes an Investment Climate
Assessment (2000) and a Trade and Competitiveness Study (2003) that contribute to the understanding
of the growth agenda. A 2000 Public Expenditure Review, a 2002 Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA), a 2002 Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) and on-going support
to the MTEF process form the basis of reforms in public expenditure management and improved
accountability. A 1999 Poverty Assessment and a 2001 Demographic and Health Survey report form
the basis of the knowledge on poverty and changes inliving standards.A full household survey (NLSS
11)is currently inthe field (data collection hasbeendelayeddue to the civil conflict) and a fullPoverty
Assessment is planned once the clean data set is available. As part of this work, the Bank will provide
technical support and capacity building in poverty analysis and more broadly, monitoring and
evaluation issues. Preliminary work has also been done for a Country Social and Gender Analysis that
will examine the causes and consequences of gender, caste and ethnic social exclusion in Nepal and
develop strategies to support government, civil society and donor efforts to overcome these barriers.
With support from the ADB, a civil service census was carried out in 2000-01 that provides data on
civil service size and composition. Analytical work is beinginitiated by the Bank (Nepal country team
and DECRG) incollaboration with local analysts to better understand the political economy of reform
in Nepal and provide guidance to the Bank's operational engagement inpolicy reform. Moreover, an
assessment of the impact of decentralization of school management to school committees will also be
launched. A policy note on agriculture that will provide further guidance on the future policy reform
agenda inthe sector is also underway incollaboration with FAO. This note will also lay out the type of
support the Bank can provide through a combination of investment lending, budgetary support and
technical assistance. Finally, a Development Policy Review i s planned for 2003/04 and will help to
refine the policy agenda for 2004/05 and beyond. Figure 1 in Annex 1 illustrates the link between
analyticalwork and the proposed PRSC lendingprogram.

85.      Coordination with ZMF and other donors. The Bank i s working closely with the IMF on
macro-economic and structural issues and the PRSC and PRGF processing schedules have beentightly
coordinated. A Joint Staff Assessment (JSA) of the PRSP i s also in progress. The ADB has recently
approved a budget support operation that focuses on privatization and civil service reforms issues -
there has been close coordination on these issues between the preparation teams of both the IDA and
ADB credits. IDA and DFIDarejointly supporting the MTEFwork andreforms ingovernance, health
and privatization, supported by the PRSC, benefit from DFID's long-standing dialogue and technical
assistance. Finally, a coordinated donor effort in Kathmandu--including the Bank, IMF,ADB, DfID,
Denmark, Japan and Norway --has been supporting the implementation of HMGN'sImmediate Action
Program(IAP). Table 4 summarizes the key policy themes being supported by the PRSC and the key
donors involved ineach sector.




                                                  25

              Table 4: PRSCThemesand Partnershipswith OtherDonors



IBroad-Based   Economic Growth
    Macroeconomic stability             IMF

. _ _ _ _ ~ _ _ _ . _ _ _ - ~
    Fiscal reforms                      IMF,ADB              _--________
                                                              UK,Denmark, Germany
                                        IMF,ADB               UK,Germany
 _. Financial sector            . .                  __   __              . .
    SOE restructuring                   ADB                   UK
    Agriculture I irrigation            ADB, FAO, IFAD,       Australia, Canada, Denmark,
                                        OPEC Fund, EU         Finland, Germany, Kuwait
                                                              Fund,India, Japan, Norway,
                                                              Saudi Fund, Switzerland,
                                                              UK,US
    Trade                               IMF,UNAgencies,       Norway, UK
                                        WTO

-            ~-     ____        ____ -I                      I              ____          __
    Labor                                                                 . .
    Roads                                                            Germany, India, Japan.
                                                              Switzerland, UK,US
    Power                                                     Canada, Denmark, Finland,
                                        Agencies             IGermany, Japan, Norway,
                                                              Sweden, US
 Improving Service Delivery

         __                             ADB, UNAgencies_
                                               _   _ _      _ ~
                                                              Denmark, Norway, UK, US
                                                                ~           ________ - ~ _ _ _
    Education                           ADB, EU,_UN           Canada, China, Denmark,
                                        Agencies              Finland, Germany, India,
                                                              Japan, Norway, Switzerland,

                                                       . ..   UK
                                        EU,UNAgencies         Auitralia, __China,-Germany,
                                                                             __   --__. .-


                                                              India, Japan, Norway,
                                                              Germany, Switzerland, UK,
I   Drinking water and sanitation      1 ADB,                 us
                                              UNAgencies      Finland, Japan, Norway, UK



  Poverty Alleviation Fund                                    UK
   ImDroving access to schooling         ADB, EU,UN           Denmark, Finland, Japan,
            I                   I        Agencies             Norway, Netherlands: UK
   Improving civil service diversity     ADB, UNAgencies      Canada, UK
                                       I                     I


t k-1
 Good Governance
    Civil service reform                 ADB, UNAgencies      UK
I                                                                               _ _ _ _ _ ~
    Anti-corruption                                           Canada, Denmark, Norway,

                . -                                           Switzerland UK,-US
                                                                            -
  - -
    Financial management                                      Germany, Denmark,




                                              26

Credit Designand Fiduciary Issues

86.     The proposed Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC) program i s based on the PRSP,
linked to the CAS objectives and built on appropriate structural, social and fiduciary analysis. The
PRSC Iaims to: (i)       support Nepal's reform champions in implementing far-reaching reforms that
revive growth, improve service delivery, promote social inclusion and improve governance; and (ii)
contribute to maintaining a sound macro framework and inprotecting high priority programs by filling
part of Nepal's financing gap.

87.      Credit design: We propose to support Nepal's reform program with a $70 million PRSC I,
that will be the first slice of a multi-year programof support for the PRSP. Upon approval by the Bank
Board, the PRSC Iwill be disbursed in the second quarter of FY04 based on the significant reforms
undertaken over the past eighteen months including the implementation of all prior actions agreed
during the PRSC Ipreparation process. Box 4 as well as Annex Isummarize the completed prior
actions for the PRSC Ias well as indicative prior actions for PRSC 11. The amount of the credit is
related to the intensity of the reform effort and the medium term macro-economic framework
discussedearlier.

88.     The PRSC Iactions form the first part of a larger medium-runreform agenda laid out above
and in Annex I.   The program supported by future PRSCs will retain sufficient flexibility to support a
reduced core part of the overall program with a smaller loan amount should the full set of proposed
reforms not take place. Moving forward with the proposed PRSC Iin Nepal i s important in order to:
(i) meaningfulreformsthatwillassistinrevivinggrowth, reducepoverty andprovidethe
    support
foundations for sustainedpeace; (ii)    maintainthe credibility of the Bank and of `change-agents' within
Government; and (iii)provide the fiscal resources to protect pro-poor expenditures in formerly
conflict-affected areas, limit domestic borrowing and maintain macro-economic stability.

89.     The medium term program's objectives, described above, will be monitored using specific
outcome and intermediate indicators. The implementation of the growth strategy i s expected to
gradually revive growth to 5.5% by 2005/06. This will be achieved by creating fiscal space for
growth-enhancing public investments and through an improvement in the investment climate. Hence
the intermediate indicators that will be monitored include (i)   the share of highpriority projects in the
Budget; (ii) access to basic infrastructure (roads, power, telecoms) services and (iii)
              greater                                                                            reduced
costs of doing business. The medium term strategy also aims to improve social indicators. Access to,
and the quality of, education, health and drinkingwater services will be improved through a process of
community involvement and private sector participation in social services. Access to these services
will also be made more inclusive and the proportion of women and minority households that benefit
will rise significantly. User surveys will also be used to measure improvements in governance and the
quality of public services and will reflect the extent that the foundations for sustainedpeace have been
laid (see Annex Ifor details on the medium term outcomes and monitoring indicators).

90.     Fiduciary issues: The disbursements under the proposed PRSC program will be closely
aligned with HMGN's budget cycle, in order to improve resource predictability. The PRSC Iwill
follow the Bank's simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations. An important
mitigating factor for the high fiduciary risks i s the government's commitment and demonstrated
progress in the implementation of its public financial management reform agenda. The Government
will open and maintain a Deposit Account with the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) into which the proceeds
of the Credit will be disbursed. Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases and
procurement will follow normal Government policies and procedures. If any portion of the Credit is
used for ineligible purposes as defined by the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the




                                                    27

government either to returnthat amount to the Deposit Account for use for eligible expenditures or to
refundthe amount to IDA.

91.      The NRB will provide the required information on the receipt and use of the Credit funds and
will prepare annual financial statements, upto and including the fiscal year in which the balance inthe
Deposit Account is zero. The financial statements of the Deposit Account will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA under terms of reference in accordance with acceptable
international standards of auditing.

92.      Environmental issues: The main environmental challenges in Nepal pertain to the sustainable
use of natural resources and adequateintegration of environmental planning indevelopment programs
and their implementation. HMGN has responded to the environmental challenges by incorporating
conservation activities in sectoral plans and programs. Furthermore, environment-related provisions
have been incorporated in various actsz9.Despite these efforts to address environmental management,
weak institutional capacity and poor coordination has constrained the implementation of various
environmental policies and programs. There i s also a significant gap between the content of the
international environmental conventions and their implementation at the national level. With a large
donor and NGO presence in this area, the CAS proposes that Bank involvement in the environmental
agenda be highly selective, focusing on helping HMGN articulate an effective strategy for
environmental conservation, management and capacity building.

93.      There are three types of policy reforms supported by the PRSC that may potentially have an
environmental impact: (i)   SOE reform; (ii) out of the kerosene subsidy and (iii)
                                                phasing                                          expanding
access to electricity. In cases where SOE's are leased or sold to the private sector, HMGN would
retain liability for any past irreversible impacts (stemming from land use changes and air pollution
emissions). Assets that are sold would be operatedunder existing environmental regulations pertaining
to soil excavation and control of industrial emissions. The phasing out of the kerosene subsidy is also
unlikely to lead to any significant increaseinfirewood consumption as it is mainly usedfor cooking in
urban areas and among the relatively well-off. Hence the environmental impact i s expected to be
negligible. Finally, the reforms to increase access to electricity in rural areas center around the
promotion of small and medium scale hydropower projects that will replace the need for fossil fuel
based power generation plants. Moreover, the expansion of grid connected electricity will reduce the
demand for keroseneusedfor lighting thereby reducing the impact of kerosene subsidy elimination on
poor households.




29Environmental provisions feature in the Local Self-Governance Act (1998),the Forest Act (1992),the
National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act (1973 and amended in 1993),the Environment Protection Act
(1996).




                                                     28

              DX 4: Prior Actions for PRSCIand Indicatii


 Objectives                          PRSC Z                               PRSC ZZ (Indicative actions expected by
                                                                                       Sevtember 2004)
 Pro-poor        2002/03 development budget scaled down and                 Draft relevant legislation to make labor
 growth          prioritized [Done - 160projects dropped and                employment andretrenchment laws more
                 remaining project classified into high, mediumand          flexible.
                 low priority]                                              Rationalize incentives for imgation to
                 Adjust retail petroleum prices to cover the cost of        promote greater private sector investment
                 purchase, transport and distribution inorder to            inimgation.
                 reverse large petroleum-relatedlosses [Done]               Transfer fuel levy receipts to Roads Board
                 Establish new autonomous Road Board and take               ina timely manner to ensure regular
                 necessary steps to beginoperations of Road Board.          resources for road maintenance.
                 [Done]                                                     Makethe Birgunj ICDoperational through
                 Dissolve Boards, introduce new professional                finalizing the (Nepal-India) railagreement
                 management teams at the two maincommercial                 and appointing a terminal management
                 banks, Rastriya Banijya Bank and Nepal Bank                operating company through competitive
                 Limited[Done]                                              tender.



 Service                                                                    Transfer 600 primary schools, 100
 delivery                                                               .   Implement scheme to rationalize excess
                                                                            staff at NRB,NBL and RBB.

              1  Transfer 150public primaryschools to School
                 Management Committees to demonstrate effective             secondary schools and 200 lower secondary
                 commencement of HMGN's school decentralization             schools to community management.
                 strategy. [Done]
                                                                         1  Make RuralWater Board autonomous to
              m  Handover 400 Sub-Health Posts (SHP) to district            improve effectiveness of community based
                 level Management Committees (MCs) [Done]               .   drinking water services
                                                                            Implement Essential Health Care services in
                                                                            14districts, prioritizing those with poor
                                                                            health indicators.

 Social       .  Enact PAF Act through an ordinance and take             .  Begin implementation of scholarship
 inc1usion       necessary steps to establish new independent PAF           package for girls and Dalit children in
                 board. [Done]                                              secondary schools.

 Governance   .  Prosecute high-profile corruption cases [Done -          = Ensure adequatetenure at senior civil
              .  corruption charges filed against three former              service level, strengthen capacity of Public
                 ministers, 22 tax officials and a senior civil servant]    Service Commission to oversee transfers
                 Revise Financial Administrative regulations inline         andpublicly report transfer data.
                 with Country Procurement Assessment Report               . Prepare and enact a new Procurement law
                 recommendations [Done]                                     andbeginimplementation.
                 Halve the numberof civil service transfers from the
                 levels prevailing in 2000. [Done]


Poverty and Social Impact Monitoring

94.      The reform program supported under the PRSC i s part of the proposed actions under Nepal's
PRSP. The PRSP outlines the institutional arrangements that will be implemented to monitor Nepal's
poverty reduction strategy. The proposed framework will seek to coordinate and unify the efforts of a
range of actors to ensure that a more systematic assessment of Nepal's progresstowards the MDG's i s
produced.




                                                           29

95.      Strengthening the monitoring of public expenditures is a key priority. Fiscal reports on overall
aggregates and on high priority expenditures will be produced and disseminated widely every
trimester. Annual work-plans and physical performance targets for development projects have been
introduced; these will be monitored and publicized to improve accountability. The extent and use of
funds that have been channeled to VDC's and DDC's will also be posted outside their offices to
improve transparency. Expenditure tracking surveys will be periodically carried out by an independent
thirdparty and the results made publicly available. HMGNhas already carried out a pilot survey and
will be working towards scaling up and institutionalizing this process.

96.      Monitoring the impact of investment climate reforms i s also important. Preliminary
discussions have been held with HMGN on the type of indicators that could be monitored, the data
sources required and relevant agencies. The type of indicators could include the time taken to obtain
investment approvals, clear customs, obtain tax refunds and close an enterprise. The Ministry of
Industry and Commerce in conjunction with the National Planning Commission are likely to take the
lead role in monitoring. The private sector have also expressed a willingness to be an integral part of
this monitoring system. Further discussions on this topic is envisaged as part of the PRSC I1
preparation.

97.      The monitoring of long-term outcome/impact indicators that relate directly to MDG's, and
those that can be used to assess the poverty impact of reform, will to a large extent be achieved
through the Nepal Living Standards Survey (the next round, NLSS 11, i s scheduled to be completed in
2004). The NLSS I1will be comparable to the 1995/96 NLSS which was the basis for the ex-ante
impact analysis of a petroleum price increase (see Annex 11). Demographic and Health Survey's
(DHS) will also play an important role in monitoring outcomes/impacts; the most recent Nepal DHS
was carried out in 2001. HMGNalso proposes, inthe PRSP, to use the 2001 Census data for a poverty
mapping exercise to facilitate the targeting of anti-poverty programs and improve the allocation of
public resources3o.The above-mentioned surveys needto be complemented by information on changes
in `intermediate' variables that affect outcomes such as teacher absenteeism, availability of drugs etc.
In the coming year, HMGN will identify the key set of intermediate indicators, assess existing data
bases inrelation to these indicators, and finalize the data needs, including modifying existing surveys
to address the lacunae, including the areas for capacity building to support the implementation of an
integrated monitoring framework.

98.      The monitoring of the PRSP will be coordinated by two sets of committees - the National
Development Action Committee (NDAC), chaired by the Prime Minister, will review progress every
four months while the Ministerial Development Action Committee (MDAC) will assess progress in
their respective sectors every two months. A new section for coordinating poverty and social
indicators monitoring and analysis will be formed in the National Planning Commission. The new
Poverty Monitoring Unit will work closely with the Central Bureau of Statistics, that will continue to
be responsible for carrying out household surveys and assembling national account statistics. The
PRSP stresses that significant capacity building assistance will be sought from development partners
to enhance monitoringand evaluationcapacity at the central, line ministry and local levels.




30 This work i s beingsupportedby the StatisticalCapacity Building Trust Fundfrom the World Bank.




                                                           30

Benefitsand Risks

Benefits

99.      The reformprocess supported by the proposed PRSC program i s expected to reduce poverty
by stimulating pro-poor growth. Sustained peace will arguably be the single most important factor in
reviving growth given its importance in attracting tourists and the boon it will provide to development
activity in the conflict-affected rural areas where the majority of the poor reside. The PRSC supports
selective key reforms that will directly contribute to improving pro-poor growth by: (i)   creating fiscal
space for, and improving the effectiveness of, growth enhancing public investments and (ii)     improving
the investment climate.

100.     Efforts to improve service delivery and implement targeted programs are critical to reduce the
social exclusion and sharp disparities in access to basic services that have been key causes of recent
conflict. Improvements in service delivery are taking place through a gradual process of
decentralization, greater empowerment of local communities inthe management of social services and
through the private provision of social services. Targeted programs such as the Poverty Alleviation
Fund are critical in targeting conflict affected areas with basic community built projects. The PRSC
program supports Nepal's track record of meaningful reforms in improving service delivery by
assisting HMGNindeveloping annual benchmarks consistent with the broad reform objectives and by
providing the fiscal and technical resourcesnecessaryto acceleratethe reform momentum.

101.     The proposed PRSC program supports HMGN's strategy to improve governance by: (i)
improving the effectiveness of the civil service; (ii)  strengthening anti-corruption and accountability
institutions; (iii)
                  improving the functioning of key agencies; and (iv) improving financial management
and procurement practices. The improvements ingovernance that are supported by the PRSC program
are designedto bring about a more accountable, efficient and less corrupt government that will create a
more favorable investment climate and improved service delivery.


Risks

102.     There are several risks associated with the PRSC program: (i)the recent break down in the
peace process leads to a sustainedperiod of violence that dampens growth prospects and the effects of
reforms in service delivery on poverty and social exclusion; (ii)       prior to and following national
elections the efforts of reform minded technocrats may be crowded out by political interference and
the sustainability of reforms may be threatened; (iii) implementation capacity may not be sufficient to
sustain a broad reform agenda; and (iv) a further worsening of global economic conditions may
undermine the impact of growth-enhancing structural reforms. These are real risks and there i s no
guarantee that risk mitigation measures could overcome the joint effect of these forces should they
materialize. The reformers in Nepal, however, are well aware of these risks and are designing the
reforms in such a way to counter the risks. The purposefulness of this reform process has been
uncommon. As an external development partner that has consistently encouraged a home-grown
reform initiative, the Bank needs to be preparedto take these risks and to fulfill its part of the bargain
by rewarding a strong track record of meaningful change and giving a clear signal that future reforms
will also be duly supported.

103.     Risks and mitigation measures associated with the peace process: In a scenario where
hostilities resume for a sustained period, there is risk that the government loses credibility and the
level of distrust between the two sides as well as between political parties will rise. Elements of the




                                                   31

Government's program designed to address the underlying causes of the conflict could be constrained
in a sharply polarized political environment and hindered by poor security and low morale. On the
other hand, the reformers' resolve may stiffen and they may be given even more space to implement
reform, at least in the roughly two thirds of the country that HMGN controls. The risk mitigating
measures partly lie in an on-going process of bringing the delivery and management of resources
closer to the people (by devolving authority from the center of education, health, water and extension
services) and using targeted programs to provide opportunities and services for particularly
marginalized groups (e.g. scholarships for Dalit children) and in the most deprived districts (e.g.
targeting resources using the Poverty Alleviation Fund).

104.     Risks and mitigating measures associated with crowding out of reformers and opposition from
vested interests: Implementation of some of the more politically contentious `prior actions' (e.g.,
regular adjustment of petroleum prices) could face delays in the run-up to elections. The continuity
and sustainability of reforms could be threatened if national elections result in bringing to power a
critical mass of politicians who want to slow down, or reverse, the reform process. Moreover, there
could be significant opposition to the reforms from powerful vested interests. For instance improving
the performance of the banking sector entails taking action against wealthy private sector individuals
who have powerful patrons in Government. Taking action to stem fuel adulteration and reduce
corruption are also clearly likely to be met with resistance.

105.     The broad-based support for the reforms i s the best counter weight to these pressures.Many of
the reforms outlined inthis document have a wide degree of support across the political spectrum and
from civil society, for they have been based on consensus-building exercises and stakeholder
consultations. The legislation creating the Road Fund i s an example of how popular support for the
reform drawn from an extensive consultative process helped overcome the political forces that wanted
to water down the legislation. Measures to fight corruption, too, enjoys very strong popular support.
Moreover, certain actions are, by nature or because of legislative change, difficult to reverse, e.g.,
introduction of foreign management teams at RBB and NBL, and legal amendment to strengthen
CIAA.

106.     Certain reforms have a built-inmechanism to expand the support base for the change rapidly,
thereby reducing the risk of a reversal. For instance, transfer of public primary schools and sub-health
posts to community management will quickly turn those communities into strong constituencies to
defend the reform, as they tend to feel the benefits immediately. Similarly, the Poverty Alleviation
Fund and scholarships for disadvantaged children can be expected to develop a momentum of their
own as they get underway. The benefits that the liberalization of telecom services has brought interms
of improved cellular services and greater internet access will also be difficult to reverse.

107.     Risks and mitigating measures associated with implementation and monitoring capacity. The
reform agenda i s comprehensive and will stretch the capacity of both central and district level
officials. The challenge will be significant for the few senior officials in central ministries who are
responsible for the overall coordination and monitoring of the reform program. Line ministries will
also be stretched. For example the pace at which schools are devolved may be constrained by capacity
constraints at the central ministry level inprocessing the school devolution applications. At the district
level, the capacity of DDC's and VDC's to cope with increased responsibilities will be put to the test.
Moreover, the monitoring functions set up as part of the PRSP process will need significant support.
Recognizing the risk of these capacity limits derailing the reform process, the reform program
embedded in the PRSP and supported by the PRSC sets realistic implementation targets. The IAP
process plays an important role in this regard, in identifying an annual list of high priority reform
actions. Further, significant technical assistance i s provided by donors in support of these reforms. For




                                                     32

instance the ADB has focused on building the institutional capacity to implement civil service reform
measures and DFID and IDA are jointly providing support to the MTEF process. Finally, efforts at
greater donor coordinationare also helping to reduce the demands on Government officials.

108.      Risks and mitigating measures associated with exogenous shocks. Nepal is vulnerable to
erratic weather patterns and fluctuating world demand for its key exports. These factors, along with a
depressed investment climate due to the conflict, have contributed to poor growth over the past two
years. The growth-enhancing reforms supported by the PRSC aim to create a more favorable
investment climate that should lead to diversification inthe economy and reduce vulnerability to these
shocks. Nevertheless, in the short run, sharp exogenous shocks do have the potential to depress
growth.

109.      While the above risk-mitigationmeasuresshould provide adequate comfort that these risks are
manageable, as an added risk-mitigation measure and to strengthen the hands of the reformers, the
Bank will provide a loan acceleration clause that would allow the Bank to demand immediate
repayment of the proposed loan by the Borrower incase reforms are reversed or materially changed.31




31Article VI1 `Acceleration of Maturity' in the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements Dated
January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999)




                                                            33


ATTACHMENT


                                    Attachment 1
                                    Page I of I O

     KINGDOMOF NEPAL
LETTER OFDEVELOPMENT POLICY




                          Date,-

                                                     Attachment 1
                                                     Page 2 of 10




                    Poverty RerlectioilrsStrategy




r Oar?:BroadBasedGrowth




                                2

     Attachment 1
     Page 3 of 10




3

Attachment 1
Page 4 of 10

Attachment 1
Page 5 of 10

      Attachment 1
      Page 6 of 10




ti

Attachment 1
Page 7 of 10

Attachment 1
Page 8 of 10

Attachment 1
Page 9 of I O

              Attachment 1
              Page 10 of 10




Sincerely,

ANNEXES


3
4


   ;
h
e: h




Y
Y  ex
   s2
    5




x
.e
Y
.-
-w
Y

 e,

'c




      0
      8
      e?




         a




E            .A
              V
    F      3

h

C
0,
s
4


          I
         4



. .      4




           I




.. . .

                                                                                                   Annex I1
                                                                                                 Page 1 of I



                  Analysis of the PotentialImpact of Removingthe Kerosene Subsidy

What impact would the removal of the subsidy on kerosene have on the poor? It i s claimed that kerosene
i s a "fuel of the poor" and i s used predominantly for cooking. Data from the 1995/96 Nepal Living
Standards Survey (NLSS) and the 2000/01 Rural Consumption Survey (RCS) can be used to check
whether these claims are true (both surveys were conducted by the CBS and the data are available).

The 1995/96 shows that in fact most households did not use kerosene for cooking, but rather firewood.
Only 4.6 percent of the householdsusedkeroseneas their main source of cooking fuel (two thirds of these
were in urban and one third in rural areas). Some households used it as a secondary cooking fuel, so in
total 7 percent used this fuel. Of these, 4.3 were in urban areas and 2.8 inrural areas (60 percent of urban
households and 3 percent of rural households).

The households that used kerosene for cooking were not among the poor. Seventy-two percent of those
using kerosenefell inthe fifth consumption quintile (that is, those who had consumption levels among the
top twenty percent), and another 16 percent were in the fourth quintile. So kerosene i s by no means a
"fuel of the poor."

However, most households did use kerosene for other uses, primarily lighting, so that 90 percent of
households reported some expenditures on kerosene. But lighting does not require much kerosene.
Households who purchased kerosene for uses other than cooking consumed on average almost five times
less than those who used it for cooking-29       liters a year compared to 133 liters (quantities estimated
based on prices reported inthe NLSS community survey). As a result, expenditures on kerosene were on
average a small, thoughnon-negligible share of total consumption: about one percent.

The above observations are based on the data from the 1995/96 survey, which i s now 7-8 years old. More
recent data can be found in the 2000/01 Rural Consumption Survey, although the survey i s confined to
rural areas. It shows a slight increase in kerosene use for cooking, from 3 to 6.4 percent. On the other
hand, the number of households reporting use of oil, electricity, and kerosene (unfortunately they are all
lumped together inthe question) declined slightly from 84 percent to 81percent.

How would an increase of, say, NRs 4 per liter (going from the subsidized price of Rs. 20 per liter to the
market kerosene price of Rs. 24, prices effective in June 2003) affect the budgets of those in the bottom
decile? Since household consumption data are available only for 1995/96, to obtain an estimate for
2002/2003 we assume that it grew at the same rate as private consumption from the national accounts
(10.3 percent per year in nominal terms). In the absence of more recent data, the quantities of kerosene
consumed (which in turn depend on consumption by individual households and the percentage of
households using kerosene, especially for cooking) are assumed to be the same as those observed in
1995/96. A price increase of NRs 4 per liter would amount on average to an increase of 0.3 percentage
point of total household consumption inthe bottom decile and of 0.2 percent inthe top decile.

                                                                                                                  Annex I11
                                                                                                                 Page 1of 4

                                                   Poverty inNepal


Poverty Remains Widespread

A few indicators give a sense of the depth of poverty in Nepal, ranked 142 among 173 countries in the
2002 Human Development Index. Forty-two percent of its people were considered poor in 1995/96 in
terms of a national poverty line based on minimum food and non-food consumption. Forty percent of
adult males and 65 percent of females are illiterate; infant and child mortality are around 64 and 95
percent respectively.

Women and girls suffer even more. Female life expectancy continues to be slightly lower than men's -- a
rare occurrence since women tend to live longer -- because of highmaternal mortality. One adult woman
in three and one young woman in two is illiterate double the rate for men. Fewer girls than boys attend
school. Women and girls are also less likely to seek or receive health care when ill.Women carry a
greater burden from onerous household activities such as collecting water and wood. They are not well
representedinpolitical and social life and are disadvantagedinfront of the law.

The Poor are Predominantly in Rural Areas and Engage in SubsistenceAgriculture

The last poverty assessment for Nepal was completed in 1998 and was based primarily on data from the
1995/96 Nepal Living Standards Survey I(NLSS I).32 data are now several years old, it i s
                                                                  While these
unlikely that the geographical, occupational, and social profile of the poor has changeddramatically.

The 1998 poverty assessment found that the incidence of consumption poverty was much higher in rural
than in urban areas (44 versus 23 percent) and that the urban Kathmandu Valley was significantly better
off than the rest of the country (with an incidence of poverty of 4 percent compared to a national average
of 42 percent). Poverty rates were higher inthe more remote areas -- inthe mountains (56 percent), and in
the Mid- and Far-Western Development Regions (53 percent in the Terai and 72 percent in the hills and
mountains). Table 1reports figures on the incidence of poverty, poverty gap, and illiteracy by region,
from the 199996 survey.

The vast majority of the Nepali people draw their livelihood from agriculture, and the poor are no
different (See table 2 on sources of income by consumption quartile). But the poor farm land of poorer
quality, do not have access to irrigation, credit, marketing, and agricultural services, and make limited use
of fertilizers. Thus, they end up growing "poorer" crops -- potato, maize, barley -- mostly for their own
consumption, and achieve lower yields. Wage work in agriculture provides a way to supplement income
from cultivation, but the poorest of the poor have limited access to wage-earning opportunities, partly
because of remoteness and isolation. Off-farm employment opportunities are limited in rural areas, and
migration to the Terai plains represents a coping strategy for many poor households. Illiteracy hinders
progress in agricultural production and represents a formidable barrier to getting better employment
opportunities outside agriculture.




32        A poverty update, basedon information from various other surveys, is underway and a full poverty assessment will be
conducted when the data from the NLSS I1become available inmid-2004.

                                                                                                      Annex I11
                                                                                                    Page 2 of 4

                                Table 1: RegionalDisparities, Nepal, 1995/96




                    Nepal                                  42          0.121           64

                    Urban                                  23          0.070           37
                    Rural                                  44          0.125           61

                    UrbanKathmanduValley                    4          0.004           24
                    Other Urban                            34          0.109           45
                    RuralEastemTerai                       42          0.095           62
                    RuralCentralTerai                      38          0.082           I1
                    RuralWestemTerai                       40          0.092           69
                    RuralMid- andFar-West.Terai            53          0.132           12
                    RuralEastemHills/Mtns                  28          0.068           59
                    RuralCentralHillsMtns                  61          0.108           66
                    RuralWestemHills/Mtns                  40          0.128           54
                    RuralMid- andFar-West.Hills/Mtn        12          0.281           13

                    Terai                                  42          0.099           69
                    Hills                                  41          0.136           58
                    Mountains                              56          0.185           15
                 Source: NepalLiving Standards Survey 1995/96.



                            Table 2: Sources of Income by Consumption Quartile




           Bottom 25 percent              50                  5                 35            10
           25-50 percent                  48                  7                 30            15
           50-75 percent                  49                  8                27             16
           Top 25 percent                 43                  11               22             23
           Average                        47                  8                28             16
           Source: NepalLiving Standards Survey 1995/96.



The reach o f infrastructure i s very limited in rural areas, despite significant efforts made since the 1950s,
when there was no road outside the Kathmandu Valley, and no road link to the rest o f the world. In
1995/96, the average rural household lived more than five hours away by foot from a paved road and
more than three hours from a vehicle-passable dirt road. Virtually no one outside o f urban areas had a
private telephone, and only nine percent o f rural households had access to electricity. Needless to say,
access by the poorest was even lower (for instance, only three percent o f all households in the bottom 25
percent, including those inurban areas, had access to electricity) (see Table 3).

                                                                                                Annex I11
                                                                                               Page 3 of 4

                         Table 3: Access to Infrastructure by Consumption Quartile




        Bottom 25 percent                  3               10             3                15
        25-50 percent                      3               12             6                14
        50-75 percent                      5               15             11               23
        Top 25 percent                    19               43             32               37
        Average                            8               22             14               23
        Source: NepalLiving StandardsSurvey 199996.


Indigenous ethnidcaste groups lagged behind intheir income and asset levels, educational achievements,
and human development indicators. People belonging to occupational castes and to marginalized and
minority ethnic groups, such as the Tharu in the Terai and the Tamang in the hills, had higher poverty
rates and lower social indicators in 1995/96.

Recent Progress has been Mixed

Some progress has been made in recent years on social indicators. Net primary school enrollment rose
from 69 to 73 percent between 1996 and 2001, according to the Nepal Demographic and Health Survey
(NDHS), primary completion rates have increased and average school going years has doubled for
females. Literacy rates are rising, though the gender gap remains unacceptably high (table 4).



           Table 4: Gender Disparities inKey HumanDevelopment Indicators, 1996 and 2000




Source: Nepal Human Development Reports, 1996and 2001

Data from the same surveys indicate that the infant mortality rate has fallen from 79 to 64 per 1000
between 1996 and 2001, and under five mortality from 107 to 91 per 1000. This i s partly the result of
successful immunization campaigns - the percentage of children fully immunized has increased by 67
percent in the last five years. Total fertility has declined from 4.6 to 4.1 births per woman. But
malnutrition rates remain high, with 50 percent of children under five years of age stunted (short for their
age), 48 percent underweight, and 10percent wasted (thinfor their age).

As mentioned, new data to assess trends in consumption poverty will be available only in a year's time,
but some data are available for rural areas. Published data point to an increase in rural consumption with
respect to 1995/96, but these need to be revised to take into account differences in data collection and
analysis methodology. While good rains and substantial inflows of remittances in the second half of the
1990s may explain an improvement in rural consumption levels, the lack of progress in reducing
malnutrition calls this into question.

                                                                                                Annex I11
                                                                                               Page 4 of 4



A simple exercise of projecting the incidence of poverty forward from 1995196 to 2001/02 using actual
GDP growth rates as a proxy for private consumption growth and population growth rates based on the
2001 Census shows that the projections done in the 1998poverty assessment, which showed a decline in
poverty incidence, were broadly on track. But inequality may have changed during this period, (for
example if growth has been faster in urban than in rural areas), so the projections need to be taken with
great caution.

                                                                                                   Annex IV
                                                                                                 Page 1of 3

                      PublicFinancialManagement andAccountability inNepal


1.      The 2002 Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) indicates that although there are
significant weaknesses inNepal's public financial accountability system, the foundations for reformare in
place. Fiduciary risk in Nepal i s considered high - the level similar to that found in many developing
countries -primarily due to the lack o f compliance with existingregulations.

2.      The strengths o f Nepal's public financial accountability system, as identified in the CFAA,
include an impressive legal and regulatory fiduciary framework, comprised inpart by these four elements:
    +   The Financial Procedures Act (1999) and Financial Administration Regulations (1999) specify
        very detailed provisions for budget preparation, accounting and reporting on budget
        implementation, internal control procedures, and annual consolidated financial statements for the
        entire government. To increase accountability, the Ministry o f Finance submits a detailed annual
        report to Parliament just prior to budget presentation comparing achievements with targets for
        each line ministry.

    +   The Local Self-Governance Act (1999) clearly specifies roles and responsibilities, including those
        for financial management, for local government committees and councils.

    +   The Office o f the Auditor General has complete legal and professional independence.

    +   The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) discusses the annual Auditor General's report and
        recommendations and forwards them to the Government with an implementation directive. PAC
        meetings, which are open to the public and the press, are held year round to address most aspects
        o f public sector financial management. However, in light o f the current interim administration,
        PAC has been disbanded until the new Parliament i s elected.

3.      However, despite this impressive legal and regulatory fiduciary framework in Nepal, the CFAA
indicated that the lack o f compliance and poor implementation o f regulations i s the single most important
problem that affects public sector accountability.

CoreIssues

4.      The CFAA identified eight public financial accountability areas which are in need of reforms: i)
complying with constitutional, statutory, and regulatory framework by tying budgets and case releases to
results and outputs, ii)improving Nepalese public sector accounting and auditing standards and practices,
iii)strengtheninglocallevelfinancialaccountability,iv)strengtheningtheindependenceandcapacityof
the Office of the Auditor General, v) strengthening the Public Accounts Committee and the Commission
for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority, vi) reducing fiduciary risk on projects, vii) strengthening
private sector accounting and auditing standards, and viii) strengthening the regulation and monitoring o f
NGOs.

5.      The proposed PRSC will support financial management reforms and capacity building measures
under the "improving governance pillar". Four priority areas were identified to address some of these
financial management deficiencies:

        +   Budgeting: The diagnostic work indicates that budget releases are not tied to demonstrated
            results. Moreover, the budget classification i s not sufficiently detailed to isolate key

                                                                                                  Annex IV
                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3

            expenditures and the presentation i s not consistent with IMF's General Financial Statistics
            (GFS) format.

        +   Accounting and Financial Reporting: The chart of accounts does not meet financial and
            management reporting needs. Revenue and expenditure figures are not accurately tracked and
            reported to identify gaps between financial progress and physical outputs. Compliance with
            internal controls i s also weak.

         +  Auditing: There i s not sufficient guidance to the Auditor General's office regarding audit
            scope and selection o f agencies; risk-based auditing i s not in place. Moreover, the
            performance of the Auditor General's office i s not reviewed by an independent entity.

         +   Transparency and Oversight:: Fiscal transparency is currently limited as accurate
            information related to revenues, expenditures, and physical performance o f projects i s not
            publicly disseminated.

Reform Strategy and Expected Results

6.      Promoting a culture o f accountability requires strong political will and an enforceable incentive
and disincentive structure. Hence, improvements in financial management are closely related to civil
service reform and anti-comption efforts. These issues are elaborated in the main text and the rest of this
annex describes HMGN's efforts to implementing the CFAA recommendations.

Actions Takenand Underway

7.      HMGN is in the process of reforming its budget processes based on recommendations in the
CFAA. The government has formally constituted a Reform Monitoring Committee chaired by the
Financial Comptroller General with members representing appropriate public and private sector agencies.
Actions underway include:

    +   Releasing budget resources inFY03 based on: i)priority for P1projects and ii)new performance
        based criteria usingthe first two trimester fiscal reports
    +   Reconciling Government arrears to public utilities
    +   Piloting an expenditure tracking survey for education by the Financial Comptroller General's
        office
        Designinga new Chart o f Accounts to align with I M F ' s General Financial Statistics classification
    +   Creating an autonomous Financial Accounting Standards Board and Board o f Auditing Standards
    +   SubmittingFY03 Auditor General's accounts to a reputable external auditor.

ProposedActions

9.      B y the end of the three-year PRSC period, HMGNexpects to:

    +   Publish FY04 and FY05 revenue and expenditure figures each trimester and physical
        performance o f all P1 projects. Fiscal transparency will be extended to the local level with
        revenue and expenditures o f DDC's and VDC's publishedinfront of their offices.

                                                                                             Annex IV
                                                                                            Page 3 of 3

+Adopt accounting and auditing standards inline with international standards
+Implement expenditure tracking surveys and publicly disseminate results.
+Pilot new Chart o f Accounts inline with I M F ' s General FinancialStatistics classification.
+Adopt a risk-based audit approach and increase selectivity. Expand audit scope based on
 materiality considerations and risk-based assessments.
+ Submit FY04 and FY05 Auditor General's accounts to an external auditor
+ Conduct an external audit o f the Nepal Rastra Bank and implement key recommendations o f the
  I M F ' s Safeguards Assessment.

                                                                                                                                            Annex V
                                                                                                                                          Page I of 2
                                                   At A Glance                                                                                10/7/03



POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                            South        LOW-
                                                                   Nepal         Asia   income      1 Development   dlamond'
2003        I
Population,mid-year(million)                                        24.2        1,401     2,495
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                  240          460        430                     Life expectancy
`GDP per capita (US$)                                               238
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billion)                                      5.7         640      1,072                                T
Average annual growth, 1997-03
Population (%)                                                       2.2           1.8       1.9                                              Gross
Labor force PA)                                                      2.6          2.3        2.3                                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                                                                       nrollment

Poverty (% of population below nationalpovertyline, 7996)            42
                                                                                                    I
Urban population ("A of totalpopulation)                             13             28       30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                      60             63       59
Infant mortality (per 7,000 live births)                             66             71       81
Child malnutrition ("A of children under 5)                          48                                     Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                   88             84       76
Illiteracy("A ofpopulation age 75t)                                  55             44       37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                118             97       95
    Male                                                            128           108       103       -Nepal         - - - - - - Low-incomegroup

    Female                                                          108             89       87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                         1983      1993         2002       2003
GDP (US$ billions)                                                                                    Economic ratlos'
                                                           2.4       3.7          5.5        5.7
(in percent)
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                            19.6       22.6         24.6       26.1                            Trade
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                         10.2       18.4         16.1       14.6
Gross domestic savingdGDP                                  8.5      12.2         11.8       11.3                                T
Gross national savings/GDP                               10.7       14.5         25.7       25.6
Currentaccount balance/GDP                                -7.4      -8.1          2.6       -0.9     Domestic                             Investment
Interest paymentson external debVGDP                       0.2       0.8          0.4        0.4     savings
Total external debt/GDP                                  18.5       54.9         52.9       51.8
Total debt service/exports                                 6.5       8.8          4.6        5.2                                I
Present value of debffGDP (2001)                                                 28.1
Presentvalue of debffexports(2001)                                               74.0                                Indebtedness

                                           1983-93 1993-03         2002         2003    2003-07
(average annual growth)
GDP                                            5.1         4.3      -0.5          2.3        4.8       -Nepal               - -- Low-incomegroup
GDP per capita                                 2.7         2.0      -2.7          0.1        2.2


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                         1983      1993         2002       2003
("A of GDP)                                                                                          Growth of GDP (%)
Agriculture                                              60.3       41.3         39.6       39.6    I L T
Industry                                                 12.8       20.2         20.9       20.7
  Manufacturing                                            4.6       8.6          8.1        7.9
Services                                                 26.9       38.4         39.5       39.7
Privateconsumption                                       81.3      79.3          78.1       78.2
General governmentconsumption                            10.1       8.5          10.0       10.5
Importsof goods and services                             21.3      28.8          28.8       29.3    I                        -GDP



                                                    1983-93 1993-03             2002       2003
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                3.4      3.3           2.2        2.1
Industry                                                   9.2      4.9          -3.3        2.3
  Manufacturing                                          10.1       4.2         -10.0        0.4
Services                                                   4.7      5.5          -1.4       2.7


Note: 2003=2002/03.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamond will
   be incomplete.

                                                                                                                    Annex V
                                                                                                                   Page 2 of 2



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1983  1993   2002    2003
Domestic prices                                                       Inflation(%)
(% change)                                                            15T
Consumer prices                         14.0    9.9     2.9    4.7   I
ImplicitGDP deflator                    12.3   11.2    3.2     3.5
Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                       11.5    12.3      -I     98    99      A         01           Id:
Current budget balance                                 -0.1    -4.0
Overall surplus/deficit                                -5.7    -4.0           -GDP       deflator    ' 0 - C P I


TRADE
                                        1983  1993   2001    2003
(US$ millionsj                                                        Exportand Import levels(US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       82   379     942     782   ~2.000T
  Food                                                  65
  Pulses                                                56
  Manufactures                                         256
Total imports(cif)                       457   860   1,773   1,707
  Food                                         101      81                   97   98    99      00     01         02   03
  Fueland energy                                 84    338
  Capitalgoods                                  169    312                        EExports            EImports



BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1983  1993   2002    2003
[US$millions)                                                         Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)
Exportsof goods and services             249   675   1,060     949
Importsof goods and services             483  1,053  1,687   1,821   110T
Resourcebalance                         -233  -378    -626   -872
Net income                                12      8     -7      -6    5
Net currenttransfers                      36     75    777     a25
Currentaccount balance                  -185  -295     143     -53
Official transfers                         4     77    143     161    0
                                                                                      99     00       01       02
Financingitems (net)                     137   380    -323   -143
Changesin net reserves(-=increase)       44   -162      36   -123
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold [US$ millions)           571   1,055   1,184
Conversionrate (DEC,local/US$j          13.8  48.0    75.9    77.8

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1983  1993   2002    2003
[US$ millions)                                                        Compositionof 2002 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed     453  2,010   2,933   2,975
  IBRD                                     0      0      0       0                   ~5    G 3 6
  IDA                                    172   832   1,156   1,185
Total debt service                       20     69      88      96
  IBRD                                     0      0      0       0
  IDA                                      2     10     26      30
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                        94     77    143      161
  Official creditors                     68    156       4
  Privatecreditors                         1    -10      0       0
  Foreigndirect investment                -1     6      -4      -2
  Porlfolioequity                         0      0       0       0
World Bank program
  Commitments                            45      0      23      97    A IBRD
                                                                        -                                  E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                          31     69      38      27    6 . IDA    D. Other multilateral     F Pnvate
                                                                                                             -
  Principalrepayments                     0      4      18      21    C IMF
                                                                        .                                  G. Short-term
  Net flows                              31     66      20       6
  Interestpayments                         1     6       8       9
  Net transfers                          29     60      12      -3

                                                                                                                  ~~

DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                10/7/03

                                                                                                                     Annex VI
                                                      Social Indicators                                             Page 1of 1



                                                                                                       ~~         ~~~



                                                             Latest single year                Same regiodincome group


                                                                                                       South            Low-
                                                      1970-75        1980-85    1995-2001                Asia         income
POPULATION
Total population,mid-year(millions)                      13.1           16.2          23.6            1,377.8         2,505.9
  Growth rate ("hannual average for period)                2.0           2.1            2.4                1.8            1.9
Urbanpopulation(Yoof population)                           5.0           7.8          12.2               27.8            30.8
Total fertility rate (birthsper woman)                     6.2           5.9            4.2                3.2            3.5

POVERTY
("7of population)
Nationalheadcountindex                                                                42.0
  Urbanheadcountindex                                                                 23.0
  Rural headcountindex                                                                44.0

INCOME
GNI percapita (US$)                                       120           170            250               450             430
Consumer price index(1995=100)                              17            35            141
Food price index (1995=100)                                               33            143

INCOMEKONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                                                            36.7
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)                                            7.6
Highestquintile (% of income or consumption)                                          44.8
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
  Health ("hof GDP)                                                                     0.9                1.o            1.1
  Education ("%of GDP)                                     1.5           2.7            3.7                2.5            2.8
  Social security and welfare ("hof GDP)                   0.1           0.1            0.4
Net primary school enrollment rate
("7of agegroup)
  Total                                                                                  72
      Male                                                                               77
      Female                                                                             67
Access to an improved water source
("7of population)
  Total                                                                                  88                84              76
      Urban                                                                              94                94              90
      Rural                                                                              87                80              70
Immunization rate
("7under 12months)
  Measles                                                                 34             71                58              60
  DPT                                                                     32             72                65              61
Child malnutrition("hunder 5 years)                         69                           48
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
  Total                                                     45            51             59                63              59
      Male                                                  46            52             60                62              58
      Female                                                44            50             59                63              60
Mortality
  Infant(per 1,000 live births)                           149           117              66                71              80
  Under5 (per 1,000live births)                           223           170              91                99             121
  Adult (15-59)
      Male (per 1,000 population)                         482           376             314               252             312
      Female (per 1,000 population)                       476           395             314               202             256
  Maternal (modeled,per 100,000 live births)                                            830
Births attended by skilled healthstaff ("h)                               10             12                42
Notes:0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollmentrate:break in series between1997 and 1998 due to
changefrom ISCED76to ISCED97; ratios exceeding100 indicatediscrepanciesbetweenthe estimatesof school-agepopulation
and reported enrolment data.
2003 World DevelopmentIndicatorsCD-ROM,World Bank

                                                                                                              Annex VI1
                                                                                                              Page 1of 2
                                                     KeyEconomicIndicators
                                                            As of 10/8/2003


                                                                               Actual        Estimate        Projected
                            Indicator                          98/99      99/00 00101  01/02   02/03   03/04   04/05   05/06
Nationalaccounts(as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                                           100       100   100    100      100    100      100    100
 Aaculture                                                       40.1      39.6  38.4   39.6     39.6   38.7     38.1   37.4
 Industry                                                        21.2      21.5  21.3   20.9     20.7   22.7     23.0   23.3
 Services                                                        38.7      38.9  40.3    39.5    39.7   38.6     38.9   39.3

Total consumption                                                86.4      84.8  85.1    88.2    88.7   88.4     87.6   87.1
Gross domestic fixed investment                                  19.1      19.3  19.0    19.3     19.2  20.0     20.5   21.5
 Governmentinvestment                                             7.0       7.0   7.6    7.6      7.0    7.5      7.9    8.1
 Privateinvestment                                               12.1      12.4   11.4   11.7     12.1  12.5     12.6   13.4

Exports(GNFSY                                                    22.8      23.3  22.4    16.1     14.6  16.0     18.3   18.1
Imports(GNFS)                                                    29.7      32.4  31.5    28.8    29.3   30.9     32.9   32.7

Grossdomestic savings                                            13.6      15.2   14.9   11.8     11.3  11.6     12.4   12.9
Grossnationalsavings                                             20.6      24.6  27.2    25.7    25.6   24.9     25.2   25.2

Memorandum items
Grossdomesticproduct                                            5034      5494   5582   5549     5739   6408     6812   7311
(USSmillionat currentprices)
GNIper capita (US$,Atlas method)                                 230        240   240    230      240    250      260    280
GDPper capita (US$)                                              228        243   242    235      238    259      270    283

Realannualgrowthrates (%, calculatedfrom 1985prices)
 Gross domesticproductat marketprices                             4.5       6.1   4.8    -0.5      2.3   3.5      4.6    5.4

Realannualper capitagrowthrates (%, calculatedfrom 1985 prices)
 Grossdomesticproductat marketprices                              2.2       3.8    2.4   -2.7      0.1   1.2      2.3    3.0
Balanceof Payments(US$millions)
 Exports(GNFSf                                                  1270      1433   1359   1060      949   1022     1246   1322
   MerchandiseFOB                                                 763       971   942    754      633    680      883    935
 Imports(GNFS~                                                  1595      1922   1984   1687     1821   1982     2243   2389
   MerchandiseFOB                                               1390      1713   1773   1496     1630   1777     2024   2155
 Resourcebalance                                                -325       -489  -625   -626     -872   -960     -997  -1067
 Netprivatetransfers                                              338       497   680    777      825    867      891    912
 Current accountbalance                                           25         28    64    143      -53   -107     -121   -169
 Officialtransfers                                                137       133   108    143      161    243      252    248
 Long-termloans (net)                                             157       148    96     38       45     13        16    27
 Official                                                          89        97    60     58       74     47        37   -41
 Private                                                          68         52    36    -20      -29    -34      -22     68
 Other capital(net, incl.errors &omissions)                        -7        61   -86   -213      133    166      166    193
 Changeinreserves                                               -183       -240   -80     36     -123    -77      -70    -65

Memorandum items
Resourcebalance(% of GDP)                                        -6.5      -8.9  -11.2  -11.3    -15.2  -15.0    -14.6  -14.6
Annual growthrates (inUS$terms)
 Merchandiseexports (FOB)(excludingre-exports)                   18.0      37.3   4.6   -18.1      2.4   7.4       5.9    6.0
 Merchandiseimports(CIF)                                       -10.4       23.3   3.5   -15.6      9.0   9.0      13.9    6.5

                                                                                                                  Annex VI1
                                                                                                                 Page 2 of 2



                                                       KeyEconomicIndicators

                                                                (Continued)



                                                                                Actual       Estimate      Proiected
                            Indicator                             98/99    99/00 00101  01/02  02/03  03/04  04/05    05/06


Publicfinance(as % of GDP at marketprice$
Total revenues                                                     10.2     10.7   11.4  11.5    12.3  12.4    12.8    13.4
Totalexpenditure                                                   15.4     15.7   17.6  17.2    16.3  18.7    18.5    18.2
  Current expenditures                                             9.4      9.6    11.2  11.6    11.6  13.1    12.5    12.1
  Capitalexpenditureandnet lending                                 6.1      6.1    6.4    5.7    4.7    5.6     6.0     6.1
 Overalldeficitbeforegrants                                        5.2      5.0    6.2    5.7    4.0    6.3     5.7     4.8
 Overalldeficit after grants                                       3.9      3.5    4.5    4.3     1.9   3.6     2.6     2.0
Domestic financing(net)                                             1.4     0.9    2.7    2.9     1.2   1.7     1.3     0.6
 Foreignfinancing (net)                                            2.5      2.6     1.8   1.4     0.7   1.4     1.3     1.4

Monetaryindicators
 M21GDP                                                            44.7     49.0   52.3  53.2    55.3  55.6
 Growthof M2 (%)                                                   20.8     21.8   15.2   4.4     8.3  11.1
 Privatesector credit growthltotalcredit growth(%)                 90.9    109.6   88.0  59.2   132.1 107.4


Priceindices
 Realexchangerate (eop; percentagechange-=depreciation)            1.3      -2.2    3.8  -9.2    -1.3
 Consumer priceindex (% change) (FY85=100)                         11.4      3.4    2.4   2.9     4.7   5.4     4.6     4.2
 GDPdeflator (% change)(FY85=100)                                   8.8     4.6     3.2   3.2     3.5   4.9     4.6     4.6


a. GDP at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goodsandnonfactorservices."
c. Includesnetunrequitedtransfers excludingofficial capitalgrants.
d. Includesuseof IMFresources.
e. Consolidatedcentralgovernment.

                                                                                                             Annex VI11
                                                                                                              Page I of I

                                                KeyExposureIndicators
                                                       As of 10/6/2003



                                                              Actual            Estimate             Projected
               Indicator                   98/99     99/00        00/01   01/02     02/03     03/04     04/05    05/06


Total debt outstandingand                 2,702.0   2,848.0    2,786.0   2,933.0  2,993.0    3,022.0  3,054.0   3,097.0
disbursed(TDO) (US$mIa


Net disbursements(US$mla                    141.0     146.0       -62.0    147.0     60.0       29.0     32.0      43.0


Total debt service (TDS) (US$m)a             84.0      83.0        84.0     88.0     96.0      114.0     120.0    125.0


Debt anddebt serviceindicators (%)
  TDOKGS~                                   162.6     141.8       131.5    152.9    160.9      152.5     136.7    132.6
  TDO/GDP                                    53.7      51.8        49.9     52.9     52.2       47.2     44.8      42.4
  TDSKGS                                      5.1       4.1         4.0      4.6      5.2        5.8       5.4      5.4
  Concessional/TDO                           97.5      98.4        97.7


IBRDexposureindicators(%)
  IBRDDS/publicDS                             0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0
  PreferredcreditorDS/publicDS (%)'          61.5      64.9        72.3     73.1     74.1       74.8      75.9     75.9
  IBRDDSKGS                                   0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0
  IBRD TDO (us$mId                            0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0
  Shareof IBRDportfolio(%)                    0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0
  IDA TDO (us$mld                         1,107.0   1,123.0     1,102.0  1,156.0  1,185.0    1,193.0   1,204.0  1,217.0


IFC
  Loans(US$m)                                56.8      57.3        56.0     54.0
  Equityandquasi-equity (US$m)e               3.4       3.4         3.7      3.2


MIGA
  MIGA guarantees (US$m)                    33.0       33.0        19.1     30.1



a. Includespublic andpubliclyguaranteeddebt, privatenon-guaranteed,use of IMFcredits and net short-termcapital.
b. "XGS" denotesexports of goods and services,includingworkers' remittances.
c. Preferredcreditors are defined as IBRD,IDA, the regionalmultilateraldevelopmentbanks,the IMF, andthe Bank for
   InternationalSettlements.
d. Includespresentvalue of guarantees.
e. Includesequity andquasi-equity types of bothloan andequity instruments.

                                                                                                                    Annex IX
                                                                                                                   Page 1of 4




                                                                                                         EXTERNAL

                            Public Information Notice                                                    RELATIONS
                                                                                                         DEPARTMENT




Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 03/110                                            InternationalMonetary Fund
                                                                                      700 19' Street, NW

September 5,2003                                                                      Washington, D.C. 20431 USA



                              IMFConcludes2003Article IV ConsultationwithNepal

On August 22,2003, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the
Article lV consultation with

Background

Nepal remains among the poorest countries in the world with almost 40 percent of the population living in
poverty due to insufficient growth and inadequate targeting of the poor. During the 1990s, macroeconomic
conditions remained broadly stable and the fiscal position was manageable, but growth was constrained by
financial sector weaknesses, weak public sector management, and poor governance. Inthe financial sector,
Nepal Rastra Bank (NRE3) oversight is still weak, and intermediationi s inadequate largely due to a banking
environment in which loan default is endemic, especially by well-connected borrowers. Partly as a result of
this, the two largest commercial banks now have large nonperforming assets. Similar problems exist at two
large development banks. In the public sector, investment has been spread thinly over projects and
enterprises suffer from weak management and accountability. More recently, intensified security problems
and adverse external developments contributed to lower growth and the fiscal position has deteriorated
since 2000/01.

The ceasefire agreed in January 2003 with the insurgents has renewed hopes for peace and efforts have been
madeto sustainthe reform momentum. Progressin achieving lasting peacewould facilitate poverty reduction
and implementation of policies contained in the government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
However, political uncertainties persist as major political parties continue to maintainthat the appointment of
governments by the King since the dissolution of parliament i s unconstitutional. The parties have also
refused to join the peace talks.

GDP growth i s estimated to be 2 percent in2002103. The ceasefire has helped restore some normality in the
transport and service sectors and the decline in tourism may have halted. There are also signs that some

33 Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with members, usually every year. A
staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and discusses with officials the country's economic
developments and policies. On retum to headquarters, the staff prepares a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the
Executive Board. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman of the Board, summarizes the views o f
Executive Directors, and this summary i s transmitted to the country's authorities.
 Washington,D.C.20431                Telephone202-623-7100                  Fax 202-623-6772      www,imf,org

                                                                                                      Annex IX
                                                                                                     Page 2 of 4



exports and manufacturing production are rebounding. Inflation, which rose to about 7%percent inmid-May
(12-month basis) reflecting price developments inIndia, administrative price changes, and supply factors, i s
expected to moderate by early 2003/04.

The 2002/03 budget met revised targets set in a mid-termreview. Based on weak revenue performance due
to lower activity during the first half of the year and external aid shortfalls relative to the initial budget
targets, the authorities revised the budget at mid-year. Specifically, the tax revenue target and external
financing were revised down. To compensate for these shortfalls, total expenditure was also revised down
and the revised budget set a net domestic financing target of 2 percent of GDP. Following the announcement
of the ceasefire, economic activity picked up and revenue performance improved. However, capital spending
was below the revisedbudget, reflecting continued implementation constraints at the local level. As a result,
domestic financing was around 1%percent of GDP.

Monetary policy has been accommodative and the real effective exchange rate has depreciated. To help
economic recovery, the NRB lowered cash reserve requirements by 1percentage point in August 2002 and
maintained a refinancing facility for lending to "sick" industries. Aided by the recovery in activity and
monetary easing, private credit appears to have revived and higher remittances contributed to a rise in
banking system foreign assets. However, reserve money growth has been curtailed, due largely to lower net
credit to the government. Lending and deposit rates have declined somewhat. The Nepalese rupee has
depreciated in real effective terms since early 2002, reflecting the peg to the Indian currency which has
appreciated only somewhat against the weakening US dollar.

Balance of payments developments turned favorable in mid-2002/03 and external reserves are adequate.
Large and increasing remittances helped buoy the current account. Garment exports began recovering in
late 2002, while recorded exports to India declined, carpets and pashmina exports continued to stagnate, and
imports increased with the recovery. The current account (excluding official transfers) i s expected to move
into a deficit of about % percent of GDP, but with higher aid and other inflows official foreign exchange
reserves are expectedto rise to US$1billion (6%months of imports of goods and services).

In2002/03, significant progresswas madeinfinancial sectorreformimplementation. TheNRl3took stepsto
reduce staffing through a voluntary retirement scheme (VRS). Progress was made in restructuring the two
largest commercial banks, which had external management teams installed. The teams have prepared
management plans, made progress in assessing the banks' financial status, and proposed VRSs to reduce
overstaffing. Some improvements have already taken place with success in loan recovery and branch
rationalization, although loan recovery from well-connected borrowers continues to be difficult.
Prioritization of budgetary spending improved, anti-corruption efforts were boosted, and public enterprise
reform implementation and governance reforms progressed. To improve prioritization, a Medium Term
Expenditure Framework was introduced with World Bank assistance to help align development spending
with national and sectoral priorities. Administered price increases for petroleumproducts were announced in
March 2003, although some price increases were rolled back under public pressure. Liquidation procedures
were initiated for four public enterprises; preparations for the privatization of one enterprise were brought to
an advancedstage.

Governance reforms progressed and anti-corruption efforts were boosted. The cabinet approved in
September 2002 the elimination of 7,500 vacant civil service positions. To tackle corruption in public life,
the Commission for Investigation of Abuse of Authority and a newly established Judicial Commission

                                                                                                      Annex IX
                                                                                                    Page 3 of 4



initiated investigations against politicians and revenue officials perceived to have accumulated unaccountable
assets. The Anti-Corruption Strategy was adopted.

Executive BoardAssessment

Executive Directors stressed that to address the pervasive level of poverty in Nepal, growth needs to be
raised significantly over the medium term through vigorous implementation of structural reforms,
particularly in the financial and public sectors. In this regard, Directors welcomed the authorities' Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which i s founded on broad-based growth, social sector development,
targeted programs for the poor and deprived groups, and improved governance. Directors looked forward to
considering a Joint Staff Assessment of the PRSPinthe near future. They encouragedthe authorities to reach
early agreement on a programthat could be supported by the Poverty Reductionand Growth Facility to help
achieve PRSP goals.

Directors welcomed the ceasefire agreement with the insurgents reached in January 2003. They underlined
that continued peace was essential to help sustain the economic recovery currently under way. Directors also
noted that progress in the peace talks and the build up of confidence should help relieve budgetary pressures
for security spending.

Directors commended the authorities' for maintaining broad fiscal stability to create conditions to support
economic growth. Looking forward, Directors endorsed the authorities' fiscal strategy based on revenue
mobilization, expenditure prioritization, and a reduction indomestic borrowing. They welcomed the 2003/04
budget as the first step in implementing this strategy. However, Directors called for a determined effort to
meet the revenue targets and to resist spending pressures.To raise revenue over the medium term, Directors
suggested cuts in exemptions, improvements in tax and customs administration, and increases in the VAT
rate. Directors welcomed the steps taken to prioritize development spending to help achieve poverty
reduction goals, including the introduction of a medium-term expenditure framework, and encouraged the
extension of such efforts to all expenditures. Directors noted that the envisaged reductions in domestic
borrowing would help maintain fiscal sustainability over the mediumterm, especially in view of potentially
large contingent liabilities from financial sector and public enterprise reforms. Continued technical assistance
inthe fiscal area will help address capacity constraints.

Directors agreed that monetary and exchange rate policies should remain geared to supporting the exchange
rate peg to the Indian rupee, stressing that the peg had served Nepal well given its close links with India.
Looking forward, they noted that prospective external developments, such as the phasing out of the Multi-
FibreAgreement, would likely have implications for external competitiveness andthe appropriate choice and
level of the peg. Directors pointed to the need for policy measures to ensure that remittances are sustained, as
well as for efforts to diversify Nepal's export base. They also noted that external competitiveness could be
enhancedby measures to raise labor productivity and lower transport costs.

Directors commended the authorities for progress in financial sector reforms, but noted that much remained
to be done. They stressed the need for strengthening Nepal Rastra Bank (NIB) supervision of the financial
sector. The NRB should also improve performance incentives for skilled personnel, while encouraging
separations at lower levels. Directors welcomed the appointment of external managers at the two largest
insolvent commercial banks, and noted recent steps taken by the new managers to improve the financial
condition of the banks. To help support these efforts and, more generally, to create a sound banking

                                                                                                     Annex IX
                                                                                                    Page 4 of 4



environment, Directors noted the authorities' intention to phase out priority sector lendingrequirements, and
emphasized the effective implementation of recently adopted debt recovery mechanisms, including the Debt
Recovery Tribunal and blacklistingof loan defaulters.

Directors welcomed ongoing public sector reforms, including the elimination of vacant positions, the
introduction of merit-based promotions, the decompression of the wage scale, as well as improvements inthe
public procurement process. Looking forward, Directors recommended the adoption of civil service
accountability in order to improve policy implementation. They welcomed the public enterprise reform
efforts that would lower government ownership in the economy and increase the enterprises' net budgetary
contribution-through    privatization and restructuring of viable enterprises and liquidation of unviable ones.
Several Directors stressed that due regard should be paid to the pace and sequencing of these reforms. Also,
an appropriate compensation scheme could help smooth implementation of workforce reductions.
Directors welcomed recent efforts to combat corruption, but emphasizedthe need to pursue forcefully those
responsible for the misuse of public funds. Directors supported the authorities' plans to increase
decentralization to enhance service delivery. However, they noted that the implementation of these measures
should be accompanied by improvedpublic sector governance and capacity buildingat the local level.

Directors supported measures to improve the business climate for private sector development through legal
reforms and streamlining of administrative procedures to facilitate trade. They recommended revisions to
labor legislation to make labor hiringmore flexible and modifications to the Company and Insolvency Acts
to allow more orderly andtimely exit of unviable f m s .

Directors commended Nepal for its open trade regime, and welcomed the authorities' efforts to gain early
World Trade Organization (WTO) accession. Directors welcomed the elimination of the exchange restriction
arising from quantitative limits on payments for personal travel. Directors encouraged the authorities to
further improve statistics to enhance policy formulation and monitoring. They urged full implementation of
Fundtechnical assistance recommendations.



  Public Information Notices (PINS)are issued, (i) the request of a member country, following the
                                                       at
  conclusion of the Article IV consultation for countries seeking to make known the views of the IMFto
  the public. This action is intended to strengthen IMFsurveillance over the economic policies of member
  countries by increasing the transparency of the I M F ' s assessment of these policies; and (ii)following
  policy discussions in the Executive Board at the decision of the Board. The Staff Report for the 2003
  Article IV Consultation with Nepal is also available.


,
     MAP SECTION


