Page  1
 
1
 
1. 
INITIAL PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
 
Project Name:
 
NEPAL FIRST POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT  
Region:
   South 
Asia 
    
 
 
Project ID: 
 
P074685 
Borrower(s):
 
  Kingdom 
of 
Nepal 
Implementing Agency:  
Ministry of Finance 
    His 
Majesty's 
Government 
of 
Nepal 
 
  
Contact Person:
 
 
Mr. Bhanu P. Acharya 
    Secretary 
    Ministry 
of 
Finance 
Environment Category:
 
U (Not Required) 
Date PID Prepared:
 
             July 30, 2003 
Projected Appraisal Date: 
September 16, 2003 
Projected Board Date: 
 
October 30, 2003 
 
1.  Country Background 
Thirteen years after the establishment of a multi-party democracy and the start of rapid economic 
liberalization, Nepal is in the midst of a fundamental but somewhat unnoticed shift away from 
business as usual.   The aspirations of the Nepali people for better and more inclusive governance 
and public services have become increasingly frustrated over the years.  The Maoist insurgency, 
which sharply escalated in 2001, was the starkest reflection of the rising tensions.  Wide 
disenchantment with ineffective and corrupt government, however, has also created a strong 
internal pressure for reform.  In parallel with the political process that is focusing on restoring 
peace and a more effective democracy, a renewed drive has been underway to build the economic 
and social foundation for sustained peace and poverty reduction.  Much of the reform centers 
around creating a high-performance state that delivers public services efficiently and inclusively 
and supports broad-based economic growth. While there is substantial political uncertainty, a 
broad coalition of like-minded reform leaders in government and advocates among intellectuals, 
business leaders and civil society are pushing forward with a change agenda that is likely to stay 
its course even if the political process falters. 
 
2.  Objectives And Description 
Nepal’s reform agenda revolves around the four key pillars of its Poverty Reduction Strategy 
(PRSP): (i) generating economic growth; (ii) improving the delivery of local services; (iii) 
promoting social inclusion; and (iv) improving governance. There is by now a broad social and 
political consensus in Nepal, supported by analytical work, that progress in these areas will be 
critical to building a lasting peace, speeding up development and catching up for the years lost to 
the conflict.  The poverty reduction strategy, a product of wide national participation, captures 
this consensus. The proposed credit will support its implementation, focusing on: 
Reforms to Restore Economic Growth:
 The PRSP argues that higher growth will require greater 
productivity of the agricultural sector and a recovery in manufacturing, tourism and exports. 
While the global economic slow-down and restrictive trade practices by trading partners are 
essentially exogenous growth-dampening factors, there are other impediments to growth that 
HMGN can influence. Conflict in rural areas, heavy dependence on rain-fed agriculture, high 
26682 
Page  2
 
2
transport costs, unreliable power and telecom services, a weak financial sector, a rigid labor 
market and the limited effectiveness of public investments currently constrain growth in Nepal.  
HMGN’s growth strategy focuses on relieving each of these impediments. Restoring peace is 
particularly critical as it will prove a boon to the overall investment climate and to the tourism 
industry in particular. Maintaining macro-economic stability, greater efforts at domestic resource 
mobilization and expenditure prioritization will create the fiscal space for growth enhancing  
public investments.  Improving the effectiveness of irrigation, rural transport and power sector 
investments through public-private partnerships are key components of the PRSP’s agricultural 
growth strategy. The PRSP also argues that improving the productivity of domestic 
manufacturing to promote export-led growth will require greater flexibility in labor markets, 
significant strengthening of the financial system and more reliable telecom and power services.
 
 
Reforms to Improve Service Delivery:
 The PRSP outlines the importance of improving service 
delivery through a gradual process of decentralization and greater empowerment of local 
communities in the management of social services. In education, the key objectives are to 
improve primary completion rates, increase access for girls and ethnic minorities and raise the 
access to post-primary education. HMGN has begun to implement the required reforms designed 
to achieve these objectives. A process of devolving primary school management to communities 
has begun and represents a fundamental shift in approach from the  centrally managed system. 
Targeted scholarship programs for girls and ethnic minorities will also be implemented. In health, 
the Government has developed a sector strategy that will focus on implementing an Essential 
Health Care package focused on a wide range of preventative care, maternal and child health and 
family planning. Improvements in service delivery are also expected to occur through a process 
of  devolving sub-health posts to local communities. The PRSP elaborates on the importance of 
access to clean water for health outcomes and aims to increase access in rural areas from 71% to 
85% of the rural population by 2006. The key actions needed to achieve this are to focus on 
rehabilitation
 
and maintenance of existing projects and to develop new projects using the demand 
driven user group approach supported by the Rural Drinking Water Sanitation Fund. Urban water 
supply management will be contracted out to the private sector over the next few years.
 
Reforms to Promote Social Inclusion:
 The PRSP recognizes that promoting social inclusion will 
require fundamental policy and institutional changes – particularly in the way services in critical 
sectors like education and health are delivered and in the gender, ethnic and caste composition of 
the civil service. In addition, in order to enhance the flow of resources to excluded groups in the 
short term, the PRSP proposes targeted programs for the poorest , ethnic minorities (Janjatis), 
occupation castes (Dalits), people living in remote areas, female-headed households and women. 
The strategy reviews the weaknesses of such efforts in the past and discusses using the new 
Poverty Alleviation Fund as well as analytical tools, such as poverty mapping data, to improve 
the effectiveness of the proposed initiatives. The PRSP also stresses the need for ‘quick results’ in 
order to gain the confidence of those who have thus far been left behind by development efforts. 
Recognizing the capacity constraints of the central government, the PRSP, in effect, proposes 
strategies and instruments of partnerships between local Government, community groups, NGOs 
and the private sector in the implementation and management of infrastructure development 
(drinking water, small irrigation, schools health posts, and trails) in remote areas.  . The PRSP 
discusses how gender issues will be mainstreamed in various sectors. Girls education will be 
promoted through scholarship programs and greater hiring of female teachers. The Essential 
Health Care package will have a strong focus on maternal and reproductive health and the 
community user group approach to expand drinking water has explicit provisions for the 
involvement of women. Similarly, programs to promote the inclusion of marginalized ethnic 
groups will be developed within each sector’s main programs.
 
Page  3
 
3
Reforms to Improve Governance:
 Recognizing that governance improvements are essential if 
reforms to stimulate pro-poor growth and improve service delivery are to have their desired 
impact, the PRSP develops both cross-cutting and sector-specific governance improvement 
strategies. Cross-cutting themes include: (i) improving the effectiveness of the civil service; (ii) 
strengthening anti-corruption and accountability institutions; and (iii) improving the functioning 
of key agencies; and (iv) improving financial management and procurement practices. These 
economy-wide governance improvement efforts will be complemented with measures in core 
sectors including the financial sector, infrastructure, health and education. The progress made in 
tackling governance concerns in the financial sector is a testimony to HMGN’s commitment to 
move steadily on this front. 
 
3.  Rationale of Bank’s Involvement 
The design of the PRSC builds on the findings of several pieces of analytical work completed by 
the bank in the last few years including an Investment Climate Assessment (2000), a Trade and 
Competitiveness Study (2003), Public Expenditure Review (1999), Country Financial 
Accountability Assessment (CFAA- 2002), Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR-
2002),   Poverty Assessment (1999), and Demographic and Health Survey report (2001). A full 
CAS is currently under preparation and will be discussed at the Board in conjunction with the 
proposed PRSC.  The CAS Progress Report, discussed by the Board on December 19, 2002, 
confirmed that the key elements of the earlier full CAS (discussed in December 1998) remain 
valid with the Bank continuing to act as a change agent to: (i) catalyze the necessary policy 
reforms required to generate growth and improve service delivery through greater emphasis on 
programmatic lending and relevant analytical work; (ii) strengthen the focus on creating an 
improved governance framework both through policy dialogue and as conditions for accessing 
IDA resources; and (iii) build human and physical capital through an appropriate mix of technical 
assistance and investment projects in selective sectors where IDA has a comparative advantage. 
The proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) is based on the PRSP, linked to the CAS 
objectives and built on appropriate structural, social and fiduciary analysis. The PRSC aims to (i) 
support Nepal’s reform champions in implementing far-reaching reforms that revive growth, 
improve service delivery, promote social inclusion and improve governance; and (ii) contribute to 
maintaining a sound macro framework and in protecting high priority programs by filling part of 
Nepal’s financing gap.  
4.  Financing 
The borrower is His Majesty’s Government of Nepal. The amount of the proposed PRSC I  is $70 
million equivalent to be disbursed in a single tranche upon credit effectiveness. This will be the 
first slice of a multi-year program of support for the PRSP. 
5.  Risks and Mitigating Measures 
There are several risks associated with PRSC I: (i) the peace process may break down and that a 
return to violence may dampen growth prospects and the effects of reforms in service delivery on 
poverty and social exclusion; (ii) prior to and following national elections the efforts of reform 
minded technocrats may be crowded out by political interference and the sustainability of reforms 
may be threatened; (iii) implementation capacity may not be sufficient to sustain a broad reform 
agenda; and (iv) a further worsening of global economic conditions may undermine the impact of 
growth-enhancing structural reforms. These are real risks and there is no guarantee that risk 
mitigation measures could overcome the joint effect of these forces should they materialize. 
Page  4
 
4
Fundamentally, accelerating the ongoing reforms is the best risk mitigation measure which is just 
what the PRSC is designed to do by expanding the Government's fiscal capacity to implement 
reforms. 
Many of the reforms outlined in this document have a wide degree of support across the political 
spectrum and from civil society, for they have been based on consensus-building exercises and 
stakeholder consultations. Recognizing the risk of these capacity limits derailing the reform 
process, the reform program embedded in the PRSP and supported by the PRSC sets realistic 
implementation targets.  The Immediate Action Plan (IAP) process plays an important role in this 
regard, in identifying an annual list of high priority reform actions.  
6. Monitoring arrangements 
The monitoring of the PRSP, and by extension the PRSC, will be coordinated by two sets of 
committees – the National Development Action Committee (NDAC), chaired by the Prime 
Minister, will review progress every four months while the Ministerial Development Action 
Committee (MDAC) will assess progress in their respective sectors every two months. A new 
section for coordinating poverty and social indicators monitoring and analysis will be formed in 
the National Planning Commission. The new Poverty Monitoring Unit will work closely with the 
Central Bureau of Statistics, which will continue to be responsible for carrying out household 
surveys and assembling national account statistics. Regular supervision of the PRSC will also be 
carried out by the Bank in partnership with HMGN, other donors and civil society. 
8.  Contact Points 
Mr. 
Hassan 
Zaman 
     
Senior Economist 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C., 20433  USA 
Telephone: 202- 473-2491 
Fax: 202-614-1005 
 
Mr.Roshan Bajracharya 
Senior Economist 
World Bank Nepal Country Office 
Yak and Yeti Hotel Complex, Lal Durbar 
Kathmandu, Nepal 
Telephone: (9771) 4226 792 
 
 
Note:  This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be 
necessarily included in the final project 
 
 
