                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35462

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-38300)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 51 MILLION (US$75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                         KINGDOM OF NEPAL

                                                FOR THE

                          FIRST POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT




                                             March 28, 2006




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective March 1, 2006)

                        Currency Unit = Nepali Rupees (NRs.)
                             NRs 1.0 = US$ 0.014
                             US$ 1.0 = SDR 0.7013

                             FISCAL YEAR
                           July 15 -   July 14

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       Asian Development Bank
ASYCUDA   Automated Systems for Customs Data
BFIO      Banking and Financial Institutions Ordinance
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIAA      Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report
DDC       District Development Committee
DFID      Department for International Development
EDIFACT   Electronic Data Interchange for Administration, Commerce and Trade
EHCP      Essential Health Care Package
FSRP      Financial Sector Restructuring Project
HMGN      His Majesty's Government of Nepal
IAP       Immediate Action Plan
ICD       Inland Container Depot
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IRD       Inland Revenue Department
LPG       Liquid Petroleum Gas
LSGA      Local Self Governance Act
MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NEA       Nepal Electricity Authority
NBL       Nepal Bank Limited
NOC       Nepal Oil Corporation
NTC       Nepal Telecommunications Corporation
NVC       National Vigilance Center
OPCS      Operations Policy and Country Services
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAF       Poverty Alleviation Fund
PDF       Power Development Fund
PIS       Personnel Information System
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
RBB       Rastriya Banijya Bank

RCCC      Royal Commission for Corruption Control
RTS       Rural Telecom Service
SAR       South Asia Region
SHP       Sub-Health Posts
SMC       School Management Committee
SOE       State Owned Enterprises
SWAp      Sector wide approaches
UNCITRAL  United Nations Commission on International Trade Law
VAT       Value Added Tax
VDC       Village Development Committee
VRS       Voluntary Retirement Scheme
WTO       World Trade Organization




                     Vice President:  Praful C. Patel
                   Country Director   Kenichi Ohashi
                     Sector Director  Sadiq Ahmed
                    Sector Manager    Ijaz Nabi
                       Team Leader    Hassan Zaman/Roshan D. Bajracharya

                                            NEPAL
                            First Poverty Reduction Support Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            21
6. Sustainability                                                                22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 23
8. Lessons Learned                                                               25
9. Partner Comments                                                              27
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             38
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             39
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            44

Project ID: P074685                                                  Project Name: First Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Team Leader: Hassan Zaman                                            TL Unit: SASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: First Poverty Reduction Support Credit                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-38300
   Country/Department: NEPAL                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (40%); Health (15%); Primary education (15%); Water
                            supply (15%); Banking (15%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Regulation and competition
                            policy (P); Decentralization (S); Administrative and civil service reform (S); Participation and
                            civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/02/2003                                     Effective: 11/01/2006                12/12/2003
     Appraisal: 07/09/2003                                         MTR: 11/01/2006                  11/01/2006
      Approval: 11/18/2003                                      Closing: 11/01/2006                 11/01/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL/His Majesty's Government of Nepal/Ministry of
                                           Finance
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Kenichi Ohashi                                 Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager:                 Sadiq Ahmed                                    Sadiq Ahmed
Team Leader at ICR:             Hassan Zaman                                   Hassan Zaman
ICR Primary Author:             Sailesh Tiwari


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Political Context: Since November 2003, Nepal has witnessed an escalation in the Maoist
conflict and heightened political turmoil. Following the dismissal of the Deuba coalition
cabinet--the third consecutive palace-appointed government since the dismissal of the
democratically formed cabinet in October 20021/ --King Gyanendra took over executive powers
on February 1, 2005, declared a state of nation-wide emergency and suspended a number of civil
liberties. The state of emergency was subsequently lifted on April 29, 2005. Civil liberties were
restored gradually but the government has pursued various means to clamp down on the media
and NGO activity. Although municipal elections have been announced the situation remains
extremely fluid with the major parties likely to boycott these elections. More recently, the major
political parties have forged an understanding with the Maoists that could potentially evolve into
an active alliance for the full restoration of democracy.

The primary objective of the Nepal Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) was to support
HMGN's effort to reduce poverty in Nepal by (i) generating broad based growth; (ii) improving
service delivery; (iii) promoting social inclusion, and (iv)improving governance. This
four-pronged strategy was articulated in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) finalized
in May 2003, following a highly consultative process. PRSC I was presented to the Board in
November 2003 alongside the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which proposed a
series of annual PRSCs to support HMGN's reform program.

The program objectives were designed following an acceleration of reforms since 2001. These
reforms were wide-ranging and included important policy shifts in public expenditure
management, the financial sector, service delivery and anti-corruption. First generation reforms
such as trade liberalization and the removal of price controls in the early to mid nineties
contributed to growth averaging 5% in the second half of the nineties. However the need for
further growth-enhancing reforms was brought home following the sharp downturn in growth in
early 2000s.

The PRSP, which the PRSC program (defined as the series of three IDA credits ­ PRSC I, II and
III - designed to support a medium run reform program) supports, was also designed to address
some of the root causes of an intensifying Maoist conflict that, to a large extent, reflected
widespread disenchantment of the poor with the performance of the state in providing essential
public services, generating broad-based growth and curbing corruption.
______________________
1/
  Following the dissolution of Parliament on May 22, 2002, Mr. Sher Bahadur Deuba remained as interim Prime
Minister. Subsequently, Mr. Deuba was dismissed by the King on October 4, 2002, and replaced by Mr. Lokendra
Bahadur Chand as Prime Minister. Mr. Chand resigned on May 30, 2003 and was replaced by Mr. Surya Bahadur
Thapa. After serving eleven months, Mr. Thapa resigned on May 7, 2004 and nearly one month later was replaced
by Mr. Deuba. The Deuba coalition contained Ministers from a number of different political parties, including the
Unified Marxist-Leninist (UML), Nepali Contress (Democrat) NC and Rashtriya Prajatantra Party (RPP).




                                                    - 2 -

The PRSC program supported and relied on the government's ongoing efforts to bring the
delivery and management of resources closer to the people as a way of mitigating the impact of
conflict on basic service delivery. Devolution of authority from the center to local communities in
the provision of essential services like education, health, drinking water and irrigation were
designed to `de-politicize' service delivery. The PRSP recognized the need to make reforms broad
based to ensure their sustainability. To this end, the program supported reforms that were
designed through highly participatory processes and therefore palatable across the political
spectrum (e.g. Roads Board) or contained built-in mechanisms to expand the constituency for
change through rapid demonstration effects (e.g. community school handover).


3.2 Revised Objective:

No revisions.


3.3 Original Components:


(i) Generating broad based growth

Maintaining macroeconomic stability: A stable macroeconomic framework is a pre-condition
for any credible poverty reduction program. Hence satisfactory progress with the IMF's Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) was a key part of the PRSC program. Capacity within key
agencies (Ministry of Finance, Central Bank) was considered adequate to achieve macro targets,
as shown by Nepal's satisfactory macro track record.

Increasing fiscal space: Creating the necessary fiscal space to increase public investments in
growth-enhancing sectors, as well as improving the effectiveness of these investments, is an
integral part of Nepal's poverty reduction strategy. In order to create this fiscal space, HMGN
maintained a prudent macro-economic stance, increased domestic revenue mobilization efforts,
pruned unnecessary expenditures, improved expenditure management and took steps to limit the
fiscal burden caused by public enterprises. The PRSC program supported these reforms and
developed benchmarks to measure progress in these areas.

      · Raising revenue: The PRSC program supported HMGN's efforts to improve domestic
          resource mobilization (e.g. by broadening the tax base, raising VAT, creating a Large
          Taxpayer Unit) and streamline taxation procedures. The Bank team worked closely with
          the IMF in setting realistic revenue targets in light of the difficulties with raising
          revenues during conflict.

      · Strengthening public expenditures: The PRSC program supported the rationalization of
          the development budget and the introduction of the MTEF as an integral component of
          the budget planning process. The objectives were (i) increasing the share of pro-poor
          expenditures; (ii) making budget planning and execution more outcome focused, and;
          (iii) at a broader level, coordinating aid and harmonizing donor practices.


                                                   - 3 -

      · Managing contingent liabilities: The PRSC program supported HMGN's efforts to
           improve transparency and efficiency in the parastatal sector by completing annual audits
           of all parastatals and progressively privatizing public enterprises. The benchmarks for the
           pace of privatization were based on a realistic assessment of the relatively weak capacity
           of the Privatization Cell and the experience of litigation slowing down the divestment
           process. The PRSC program identified the petroleum sector as the biggest potential
           liability to the Budget. The Nepal Oil Corporation losses averaged around 1 percent of
           GDP in 2002/03 due to subsidized fuel prices; one of the triggers for PRSC I, that was
           met at the time, was raising fuel prices to cover the costs of purchase, transport and
           distribution. Medium term measures included implementing an automatic pricing
           mechanism for petroleum products, the setting up of a professional regulatory body and
           liberalization ­ these were at best partially implemented as we discuss in section IV.

Improving the investment climate: The PRSP clearly recognized the adverse impact of an
increasingly violent conflict on both foreign and domestic investment. However, there are also a
number of critical non-conflict related investment climate issues that need to be addressed to
generate economic growth. The priorities identified in the PRSP were similar to the structural
impediments identified by earlier Bank analytical work 2/

         ·      Reducing transport costs: Nepal's landlocked and mountainous terrain imposes high
                transport costs which are in turn key impediments to agricultural commercialization
                and manufacturing exports. The PRSC program supported government's efforts to
                improve connectivity, overhaul existing institutional arrangements for funding road
                maintenance and reduce transit costs for Nepali exports to India.

         ·      Increasing access to power: HMGN's strategy to increase access to power centered
                around promoting private sector investment in the generation and distribution of
                electricity, particularly in rural areas. Measures to improve the efficiency of the Nepal
                Electricity Authority (NEA) together with the implementation of the Electricity Theft
                Control Act, to reduce NEA's system losses, were also an important part of the
                power sector reform strategy.

         ·      Improving access to telecom services: HMGN committed to the development of a
                competitive telecom sector with a focus on improving rural coverage. Specific reform
                benchmarks included establishing an independent regulatory body, taking steps to
                privatize the Nepal Telecommunications Corporation (NTC) and the licensing of a
                private rural telecom operator to address the lack of connectivity in remote areas.

____________________
2/
  Biggs et al (2000) `The Business Environment and Manufacturing Performance in Nepal' World Bank / Federation of
Nepalese Chambers of Commerce and Industry and Nepal Trade and Competitiveness Study, 2003.




                                                         - 4 -

        ·   Strengthening the financial sector: Nepal's financial sector ­ dominated by Nepal
            Bank Limited (NBL) and the Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) ­ was plagued by
            widespread mis-management, political interference and consequently high NPA levels.
            A prior action for PRSC I was the appointment of external management teams for
            these Banks and the performance benchmarks were set for these two new
            management teams. The reform agenda also included measures to restructure Nepal
            Rastra Bank to improve its supervisory and regulatory functions.

        ·   Increasing labor market flexibility: Nepal's labor market is currently defined by some
            of the most rigid laws in the region. The PRSC program supports HMGN's efforts to
            amend labor legislation in order to introduce the flexibility to hire and fire workers
            based on performance and market conditions; this was a prior action for PRSC II.

        ·   Improving customs efficiency: Given the nexus between governance, infrastructure
            and customs procedures, HMGN embarked on a multi-faceted program of customs
            reform. Measures included introducing more selectivity in customs inspections,
            harmonizing its trade classification to facilitate transshipment; re-drafting the Customs
            provisions to make them consistent with WTO provisions; developing a code of
            conduct specific to Customs employees; and creating a post-entry valuation section.

(ii)    Improving service delivery

Improvements in service delivery in Nepal's PRSP were built upon a gradual process of
decentralization, greater empowerment of local communities in the management of social services
and increased private provision of social services.

Improving the decentralization framework: Building on the 1999 Local Self Governance Act
(LSGA) HMGN had made notable progress in the decentralization of functions to local bodies.
However since the elected terms of most local level leaders ended in 2002, and elections could
not be carried out due to the deteriorating security climate, HMGN appointed civil servants to
carry out local level administrative functions. Despite the setback, the PRSP recognized the need
to consolidate the progress made on decentralization and proposed activities that could be carried
out even in the absence of elected representatives. For instance, HMGN identified 23 sectoral acts
that needed to be reconciled with the LSGA. The piloting of a new fiscal framework in 2-3
districts was also a medium run HMGN objective.

Strengthen local community participation in service delivery: The PRSC supported the
government's efforts to handover management of primary schools to local communities as a way
of improving the quality of education. Targets that HMGN had committed to on the number of
community managed schools were prior actions for both PRSC I and PRSC II. Specific reforms
included creating the legislative basis for these transfers as well as ensuring that
community-managed schools had sufficient funding and autonomy. The PRSC program also
supported handing over the management of Sub-Health Posts (SHPs) to management committees
and implementation of the Essential Health Care Package (EHCP). Measures to strengthen



                                                  - 5 -

community user groups in irrigation and rural roads were also part of HMGN's poverty reduction
strategy.

Strengthen private provision of social services: In the water sector the PRSC supported the
process of making the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board an
autonomous agency (prior action for PRSC II). HMGN aimed to redress the poor management of
urban water supply in Kathmandu by taking the necessary steps to facilitate entry of a private
sector operator. PRSC program benchmarks included HMGN's efforts to contract out district
hospitals to the private sector and textbook publication to private firms.

(iii) Promoting social inclusion

There were two distinct components of the government's inclusion agenda that were supported
by the PRSC program. First, establishing a Poverty Alleviation Fund (PAF) to channel resources
for community development projects focusing on areas with high levels of deprivation. The PAF
was considered one way of addressing the vicious circle of social exclusion, poverty and conflict.
Cross-country experience with social funds of this nature highlights the importance of
autonomous boards in order to reduce the risk of political interference with the allocation of
resources. Hence, one of the prior actions for PRSC I was to ensure PAF's autonomy.

Second, the PRSC took into account the cross-cutting nature of social inclusion. The fact that
specific ethnic groups are under-represented in the workforce is partly to do with low levels of
educational access for these groups. As such the PRSC program supported the implementation of
a scholarship package for girls and Dalit children in secondary schools (prior action for PRSC II).
Civil service reforms also incorporated components to make the demographic composition of the
civil service more representative of the larger population. HMGN's reform program included
improved tracking of the diversity of the civil service by publishing data on an annual basis and
reviewing the civil service entry exam to assess possible sources of ethnic, caste and gender bias.

(iv) Improving governance

HMGN's strategy to improve governance included: (i) improving financial management and
procurement practices; (ii) strengthening anti-corruption and accountability institutions; (iii)
improving the effectiveness of the civil service; and (iv) improving the functioning of key
agencies. The reforms supported by the PRSC program were part of HMGN's strategy to
strengthen the financial management system as well as the incentives for compliance building on
the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) carried out in 2001/02. The key
ingredients of this strategy included initiatives to tie budgets with performance, improve financial
transparency, improve accounting and auditing practices, and an array of anti-corruption
measures.

The PRSC program supported strengthening the Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of
Authority (CIAA) with the legal power to initiate cases against all top officials (prior action for
PRSC I). HMGN's anti-corruption strategy included setting up a National Vigilance Center
(NVC), tasked with strengthening prevention and raising public awareness about corruption as
well as monitoring the performance of corruption prone Government departments.


                                                   - 6 -

Greater transparency in public procurement is also an essential part of reducing corruption. A
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was conducted in 2002 and a prior action for
PRSC I was to amend the Financial Administrative Regulations to comply with its key
recommendations regarding bidding rules and procedures. A prior action for PRSC II was the
enactment of a new Procurement Law based on the UNCITRAL model law for procurement. The
creation of an independent procurement agency; and more widespread procurement related
training in the civil service were also part of HMGN's effort to strengthen procurement.

A key part of the PRSC program's support to improve civil service reforms was the enactment of
the Governance Ordinance to delineate the roles and responsibilities of senior civil servants and
Ministers in order to minimize interference in administrative and transfer decisions (prior action
for PRSC II). Other reforms aimed at making the civil service more efficient and accountable. In
order to reduce over-staffing at the lower levels, Cabinet ordered the elimination of approximately
7,500 vacant positions in late 2002 out of a total of 17,000. HMGN is also linking the Personnel
Information System (PIS), with the payroll system to create a comprehensive human resource
database.

3.4 Revised Components:

No revisions were made to the original components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The quality at entry is rated satisfactory. First, the reforms supported by the PRSC program
are founded on the PRSP ­ a home-grown product developed after a highly participatory process.
As a result, the desired outcomes of the program were aligned squarely with the government's
medium term reform goals. The PRSC program was also an integral part of the Bank's CAS
which articulates the importance of moving towards a more `programmatic' approach to support
HMGN's reform agenda.

The Bank put together a multi-sectoral team to support the reforms identified in the PRSP and
worked closely with key counterparts to ensure that the selected prior actions focused on the key
issues. The PRSC program built upon appropriate structural, social and fiduciary analysis. Board
approval was based on the implementation of a significant set of reforms agreed during the
preparation of the Credit. PRSC I disbursed US $75 million in early December 2003, three weeks
after Board approval. For subsequent operations in the series, a set of indicative prior actions
were agreed upon. As with PRSC I, subsequent credits under the PRSC program were designed
to link subsequent cash releases to delivered reforms rather than to promised actions.

Another key part of the operation was the strengthening of HMGN's monitoring and evaluation
systems. Bank staff worked closely with HMGN over the past three years to rationalize the
number of surveys, improve the quality of administration and household survey data and establish
an institutional focal point for monitoring and evaluation.




                                                 - 7 -

The PRSC program built upon a large volume of analytical work. These included a Poverty
Assessment, Public Expenditure Review, Investment Climate Assessment, Trade and
Competitiveness study, CFAA and CPAR. Reforms supported by the Bank were selected taking
into account the Bank's comparative advantage in each reform area vis-à-vis other donors. For
instance the ADB had a budget support operation in place that focused on privatization and civil
service reform ­ there was close coordination on these issues between the Bank PRSC
preparation team and the ADB. The IMF's work on revenue issues, and DFID's on the MTEF,
were also closely coordinated with the Bank's program.

The Credit also incorporated relevant Safeguard Policies. An OPCS working group reviewed the
environmental implications of the Credit, prior to Appraisal, concluded that OD 8.60 applied to
the operation3/ . PRSC I followed the Bank's simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment
operations. The disbursement was not linked to any specific purchase and all necessary
procurement was done in accordance to the normal policies and procedures of the government.

A PRSC in an environment of conflict and political uncertainty is clearly a complex operation with
significant risks. Key risks identified in the PRSC I President's Report were: (i) the protraction
and/or escalation of conflict dampening growth prospects and aggravating service delivery
challenges; (ii) political interference crowding out reform minded technocrats; (iii) the pace and
breadth of the reforms overtaking the government's capacity to implement them, and; (iv)
exogenous shocks undermining the impact of growth-enhancing structural reforms. These risks
were addressed by designing reforms that were sensitive to the conflict environment (e.g. transfer
of management responsibilities to communities) and in certain cases reforms that were
independent of conflict (e.g. customs reforms). Capacity constraints were addressed by supporting
the Government in prioritizing a limited set of reforms through the annual Immediate Action Plan
process. Nevertheless the design of the PRSC program recognized that the combined impact of
these risk factors, should they all materialize at the same time, would make it difficult for reforms
to stay on track and have their desired impact.




_______________
3/There were three types of policy reforms supported by the PRSC that contained potential environmental impact: (i) sale or
liquidation of public enterprises; (ii) phasing out of the kerosene subsidy and (iii) expanding access to electricity. In cases
where SOE's were leased or sold to the private sector, HMGN would retain liability for any past irreversible impacts
(stemming from land use changes and air pollution emissions). Assets that were sold would be operated under existing
environmental regulations pertaining to soil excavation and control of industrial emissions. The phasing out of the kerosene
subsidy was also unlikely to lead to any significant increase in firewood consumption as it is mainly used for cooking in urban
areas and among the relatively well-off. Moreover, the expansion of grid connected electricity was expected to reduce the
demand for kerosene used for lighting thereby reducing the impact of kerosene subsidy elimination on poor households. Hence
the environmental impact was expected to be negligible. Finally, the reforms to increase access to electricity in rural areas
centered around the promotion of small and edium scale hydropower projects that would replace the need for fossil fuel based
power generation plants.




                                                                - 8 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The PRSC program assessment reviews the outcomes achieved over the past two years following
the Board approval of PRSC I in November 2003. The overall outcome of the PRSC program is
assessed as moderately satisfactory as many of the policy changes and outcomes expected by late
2005 were achieved. However due to the shortcomings in achieving certain prior actions for
PRSC II, and the uncertainties resulting from the February 1st royal take-over, it has not been
possible to move forward with PRSC II. The outlook has recently improved as three key prior
actions were met over a two week period in late February 2006. Table 1.0. reports on the
progress made towards PRSC II prior actions while Annex 1 provides a more detailed analysis of
reforms (prior actions and `reform benchmarks') that could be supported by PRSC II once the
prior actions are met.

                                    Table 1.0: Progress on PRSC II prior actions

                    PRSC II prior actions                                            Progress to Date

  § Draftrelevantlegislationtomakelaboremploymentand § NewLaborOrdinanceapprovedbyCabinetinFebruary
      retrenchment laws more flexible. (DONE)                        2006 following three years of negotiations between
  § TransferfuellevyreceiptstoRoadsBoardinatimely                    employers and unions.
      manner to ensure regular resources for road                  § Aseparaterevenuecodehasbeendesignatedtomake
      maintenance. (DONE)                                            fuel levy receipts directly available to the Roads Board
  § Movetoatleastquarterlypetroleumpriceadjustments                  through the budget.
      using an automatic pricing formula (PARTIALLY                § Someprogressinreducingdifferentialbetween
      DONE)                                                          international and domestic prices. Decision to
  § MaketheBirgunjICDoperationalthroughfinalizingthe                 implement automatic pricing formula announced in late
      (Nepal-India) rail agreement and appointing a terminal         February 2006.
      management operating company through competitive             § BirgunjICDhasbeenmadeoperationalwiththe
      tender. (DONE)                                                 appointment of a terminal management company in
  § ImplementschemetorationalizeexcessstaffatNRB,                    place. The Nepal-India rail agreement has been signed.
      NBL and RBB and resolve a number of large defaulter          § ThreephasesofVRShavebeencompletedinRBBand
      cases (PARTIALLY DONE)                                         NBL and the targeted staffing level has been achieved.
                                                                     However progress in recovering claims from large
                                                                     defaulters have been stalled through legal appeals.
  § Transfer600primaryschools,100secondaryschools                  § Acumulativetotalof2270schoolshavebeenhanded
      and 200 lower secondary schools to community                   over in 60 districts.
      management. (DONE)
  § MakeRuralWaterBoardautonomoustoimprove                         § RuralWaterBoardhasbeenmadeautonomous.
      effectiveness of community based drinking water
      services (DONE)
  § ImplementEssentialHealthCareservicesin14                       § EHCpackagesareunderimplementation,albeitin

      districts, prioritizing those with poor health indicators.     various degrees, in all 75 districts.

      (PARTIALLY DONE)
  § Beginimplementationofscholarshippackageforgirls                § Scholarshippackagesforgirlsandstudentsfrom
      and Dalit children in secondary schools. (DONE)                disadvantaged groups are under implementation. There
                                                                     are also additional incentive grants to supplement block
                                                                     grants for community schools that enroll certain
                                                                     numbers of Dalit and female students
  § Enactmentoflegislationdelineatingpowersof                      § DraftGovernanceOrdinanceapprovedbyCabinetin
      Ministers and civil servants (PARTIALLY DONE)                  February 2006 ­ sent to the King for enactment.
  § PrepareandenactanewProcurementlawandbegin                      § TheProcurementActhasbeendraftedbutnotyet
      implementation. (PARTIALLY DONE)                               promulgated.




                                                               - 9 -

A discussion of poverty trends between 1996 and 2004, followed by the description of outcomes
to date under the PRSC program are presented below.

Poverty trends and determinants

With an average per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of US$260, Nepal remains the
poorest country in South Asia. However, over the last decade Nepal has made considerable
progress in reducing poverty, with analysis showing that the headcount poverty rate fell
sharply--from 42 percent to 31 percent--between FY95/96 and FY03/04 (see Table 2)4/.
Declining from 22 percent to 10 percent, the incidence of poverty in urban areas has more than
halved, while poverty in rural areas has also declined appreciably (from 43 percent to 35 percent),
although remains higher than in urban areas. Poverty rates have also declined across all of
Nepal's development regions and ecological belts.

                                   Table 2: Nepal 1995-96 and 2003-04, Poverty Trends

                         Headcount rate (P0)                   Poverty Gap (P1)             Squared Poverty Gap (P2)

                    1995-96    2003-04     change                   2003-04   change       1995-      2003-   change
                                             in %         1995-96               in %         96        04      in %
           Nepal     41.76       30.95       -26           11.75     7.58        -35        4.68      2.71      -42
           Urban     21.55       9.55        -56           6.54      2.20        -66        2.66      0.72      -73
            Rural    43.27       34.73       -20           12.1      8.54        -29        4.83      3.07      -36
            Source: Nepal Poverty Assessment (World Bank forthcoming)



There are a number of explanations for Nepal's impressive achievements in reducing poverty over
the last decade. First, a significant increase in remittances ­ per capita real increase of 80 percent
in this period - has propped up consumption of Nepali households. Second, following
improvements in productivity and a tightening of the labor market, agricultural wages have
increased by about 25 percent in real terms over the period. Increased demand, coupled with
improved connectivity and better access to markets, stimulated entrepreneurial activities and
allowed for non-agricultural wages and incomes to increase. Further, increased urbanization
moved workers from low productivity jobs in rural areas to higher productivity jobs in urban
areas. Finally, the decline in fertility (starting in the 1980s) paid off in terms of considerably
reducing household size and the dependency ratio.

A number of the factors described above, such as remittances and fertility decline, are not related
to the PRSC program. However there are certain reforms within the PRSC program that are likely
to increase the sustainability of Nepal's poverty reduction as we look forward. For instance,
improving the institutional mechanisms by which roads are maintained, and investments in
improving connectivity, will promote greater access to markets. Reforms in the education sector,
_________________
4/
  This is based on data from the FY95/96 and FY03/04 Nepal Living Standards Surveys (NLSS-I and NLSS-II) and analysis
carried out by the Nepal Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS). In the near future, a World Bank Poverty Assessment reporting on
these and other poverty-related results will be finalized.




                                                              - 10 -

in primary and post-primary, will lead to higher skill levels and access to better-paid jobs, in urban
Nepal and abroad. Making labor laws more flexible will encourage manufacturing investment,
create employment and reduce poverty.

Key outcomes achieved under the PRSC program

Table 3 outlines the key outcomes achieved under the PRSP/PRSC program. Key outcomes
include:

       ·     Nepal has maintained a stable macro-economic framework with low inflation. Growth
             during the 2003-05 period (3.2% average) is disappointing when compared to targets
             though needs to be viewed in the context of a deteriorating conflict situation.

       ·     The share of pro-poor expenditures has gone up from 27% of total spending in FY03
             to 31% in FY05, and the MTEF process has become an integral part of budget
             management during this time.

       ·     The number of Village Development Committees (VDC) with telephones rose by
             16% between 2003-05.

       ·     The two largest commercial banks registered operating profits for the first time in
             FY05.

       ·     Transit and transport costs for Nepali goods to Kolkata port have fallen by around
             37% due to setting up the Inland Container Depot at Birgunj, contracting a private
             operator and signing the India-Nepal rail agreement.

       ·     Primary school completion rates increased from 60% in FY02 to 69% in FY04. Adult
             literacy increased from 44% to 48% over the same period.

       ·     Percentage of births assisted by skilled attendants increased from 15% in FY03 to
             20% in FY05.

       ·     The number of corruption cases adjudicated by the Special Court more than doubled
             (from 55 to 129) between FY03 and FY04.

The PRSC program has had a significant impact on institutional development outcomes in a
number of areas. First, the MTEF has now become an integral part of budgetary management and
has changed the institutional norms of budgeting. The linking of proposed expenditures with
sectoral strategies has been particularly important in protecting pro-poor expenditures during a
time of heightened political uncertainty and conflict. Clearly a lot remains to be done to strengthen
the MTEF process (e.g. improving the performance based release mechanism, increasing the
comprehensiveness of the budget etc) but it has already had a significant institutional development
impact.




                                                - 11 -

Another prominent institutional impact of the PRSC program has been to strengthen
community-led development in Nepal. The past few years has seen greater community
involvement in the provision of essential services like education and health, but also in the
construction and management of infrastructure services like roads, medium and large irrigation,
and hydropower. Although a rigorous analysis of the improvements in the performance of
community managed schools is yet to be seen, the pace at which the handover has occurred
(exceeding all previous expectations) is to an extent symptomatic of the demand that exists for
this reform. HMGN has to be credited for creating the framework for greater community
involvement. For instance the Eighth Amendment of the Education Act suspended central
recruitment of teachers and provided greater autonomy to schools to recruit directly; block grants
to community managed schools have also increased the incentives for schools to be transferred
from state to community management.

Monitoring and evaluation is the third area where there has been tangible institutional
development following the PRSP / PRSC process. The National Planning Commission carried out
a survey prioritization and rationalization exercise in order to match the data required for PRSP
monitoring, with the types of surveys being conducted. A timetable for periodic national
household surveys, Demographic and Health Surveys, public expenditure tracking surveys and the
collection of administrative data has been set. Impact assessments of programs in education,
health, drinking water and agriculture were also conducted in 2004.

Finally, the PRSC program's support to ensure the autonomy of various service delivery
institutions has also been important for institutional development. The prior actions for PRSC I
related to the autonomy of the Roads Board and the Poverty Alleviation Fund. A prior action for
PRSC II was the autonomy of the Rural Water and Sanitation Fund Board which was also
granted. These institutional delivery mechanisms are set up to improve service delivery of these
respective services; retaining their autonomy will be an important challenge going forward.




                                                 - 12 -

 Table 3: Key Outcomes Envisioned by the End of the PRSP Program (2003-2007) and Interim Results


 GOALS            STRATEGY                           MONITORING INDICATOR                                 Achievement during PRSC period
                                                                                                                        (2003-2005)
                                                            Envisaged Outcome                                       Anticipated Impact
                                                                 (2003-2007)
Broad based ·   Prudent fiscal and        · Average inflation rate contained below 5%, low net           · Macro-environment conducive to generate
economic        monetary stance.            domestic borrowing and healthy reserves                        growth and reduce poverty. Average real
growth                                                                                                     GDP growth of 4.3-6.2%

            · Improve the efficiency      · Increase in the share of pro-poor expenditure in the budget. · Increased realism and a tighter output
                of public expenditure                                                                      alignment of the budget.
                management.
                                                                                                         · Increased fiscal space for poverty reducing
            ·   Enhance domestic          · Increase domestic revenue to GDP ratio to 14% by 2007.         public investments.
                revenue mobilization.
                                          · Private sector investment increased to 16.7% of GDP from     · Reduction in the costs of doing business,
            · Improve the efficiency        12.7% in FY03                                                  enhanced productivity and the elimination
                of factor markets (labor,                                                                  or mitigation of "behind the border"
                financial) and create                                                                      constraints on exports.
                environment conducive
                to private sector                                                                        · Stable overall macroeconomic framework;
                investment.                                                                                net domestic borrowing fell from 2.9% in
                                                                                                           FY02 to 0.2% in FY04; inflation below 5%,
                                                                                                           over six months of reserves during entire
            · Increase access to basic                                                                     period
                infrastructure facilities
                (roads, power, telecom)                                                                  · GDP growth averaged 3.2% between FY03
                                                                                                           and FY05

                                                                                                         · Significant progress has been made in using
                                                                                                           the MTEF as a core budgetary management
                                                                                                           tool. Pro-poor expenditures rose from 27.8%
                                                                                                           of government expenditures in FY03 to
                                                                                                           31.1% in FY05; the deviation between
                                                                                                           actual and budgeted expenditures fell
                                                                                                           sharply.
                                                                                                         · Widespread administrative reforms and
                                                                                                           simplification of customs procedures
                                                                                                           bolstered domestic revenue as it rose to an
                                                                                                           estimated 13.0% of GDP in FY05.
                                                                                                         · Secured Transactions Ordinance, Insolvency
                                                                                                           Ordinance and Company Ordinance
                                                                                                           approved in September 2005 and new Labor
                                                                                                           Ordinance approved by Cabinet in February
                                                                                                           2006.
                                                                                                         · NBL and RBB ­ the two largest commercial
                                                                                                           banks ­ generated operating profits for the
                                                                                                           first time in FY05.
                                                                                                         · Telephone penetration increased from 1919
                                                                                                           VDCs in 2003 to 2234 VDCs in 2005.
                                                                                                         · Private investment rose from 12.7% of GDP
                                                                                                           in FY03 to 13.7% in FY05.
                                                                                                         · Transit and transport costs of Nepali goods
                                                                                                           going through Birgunj have fallen by 37%
Improve     Education
service     · Devolve school              · At least 6000 schools transferred to local communities.      · Adult literacy increased to 63%.
delivery        management to             · NER in primary schools increased from 82 to 90%.             · Female literacy increased to 55% from 44%
                communities /local        · Increase in the percentage of students completing primary      in FY02
                bodies.                     schools.
            · Improve access of girls,
                Dalits, and               · Increased immunization.
                disadvantaged groups to   · Contraceptive prevalence rate increased to 55%.
                education.                · All sub health posts, 50% of the health posts and 25
                                            district hospitals handed over to local management.




                                                            - 13 -

           Health
           · Expand the provision of     · Access to safe drinking water increased to 85%.
              essential healthcare         Access to sanitation facilities increased to 50% of the     · 2257 schools transferred to community
              services.                  ·
                                           population.                                                   management.
           · Devolve operation and                                                                     · Net primary enrollment increased from
              management of                                                                              81.1% in FY02 to 84% in FY04.
              hospitals, health posts                                                                  · Primary school completion increased from
              and sub-health posts.                                                                      60% in FY02 to 69% in FY04.
                                                                                                       · Adult literacy increased from 44% in FY02
                                                                                                         to 48% in FY04.
           Drinking water                                                                              · Female literacy increased from 19.1% in
           · Scale up demand driven                                                                      FY96 to 33.8% in FY04.
              approach to rural water                                                                  · Gender parity index for net enrolment rate in
              supply and sanitation                                                                      primary schools increased from 70 in FY96
              schemes.                                                                                   to 86 in FY04

                                                                                                       · Percentage of women receiving adequate
                                                                                                         post-natal care visits increased from 14.4%
                                                                                                         in FY02 to 28.3% in FY04.
                                                                                                       · Percentage of fully immunized children rose
                                                                                                         from 36% in FY96 to 59.4% in FY04.
                                                                                                       · Percentage of births by skilled attendants
                                                                                                         increased from 15% in FY03 to 20% in
                                                                                                         FY05.
                                                                                                       · Contraceptive prevalence rate increased
                                                                                                         from 39% in FY02 to 42% in FY05.
                                                                                                       · 1273 sub-health posts and 2 hospitals
                                                                                                         handed over to community management
                                                                                                       · Access to safe drinking water increased from
                                                                                                         71.6% to 73% between FY02 and FY04.
                                                                                                       · Access to sanitation facilities increased from
                                                                                                         20% in FY02 to 39% in FY04
Promoting  · Improve access to           · Improvements in the poverty and human development           · Reduced ethnic and caste disparities
social       schooling for girls, ethnic   indicators for deprived communities.                        · Number of female students receiving
inclusion    and caste minorities.                                                                       scholarship at the primary level
           · Increase representation of                                                                  increased from 151,568 in FY02 to
             women, Dalits and                                                                           224,656 in FY04.
             Janajatis in the civil                                                                    · Incentives to increase enrollment of
             service.                                                                                    girls and Dalit students incorporated
                                                                                                         in the block grants to community
                                                                                                         schools.
                                                                                                       · An affirmative action plan is being
                                                                                                         developed on the basis of the
                                                                                                         amendments to the Civil Service Act
                                                                                                         passed by Cabinet.
Improving  · Governance Act enacted      · Clearly delineate roles of civil servants and politicians.  · Reduce political influence in the civil
governance · Improve civil service       · Maintain transfers at normal rotation levels                  service.
             composition                                                                               · Reduction in both the perception and
           · Scale up anti- corruption                                                                   incidence of corruption.
             measures                                                                                  · Improved accountability and
           · Improve financial                                                                           transparency of public resources
             management and                                                                            · A cumulative total of 7160 vacant
             procurement practices.                                                                      positions abolished FY02-FY05.
                                                                                                       · Number of transfers reduced from
                                                                                                         4417 in 2002 to 3335 in 2004.
                                                                                                       · New Governance Act approved by
                                                                                                         Cabinet in February 2006
                                                                                                       · Doubling of number of corruption
                                                                                                         cases filed and adjudicated from
                                                                                                         FY03 to FY04.
                                                                                                       · Draft Procurement Law developed
                                                                                                         following extensive consultations.




                                                           - 14 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 Reforms to accelerate broad-based growth (Rating: Moderately satisfactory)

The Maoist conflict intensified over the past two years which contributed significantly to Nepal's
modest growth performance - 3.3 percent over the 2003-2005 period. The fact that growth rates
have not deteriorated further in the face of a worsening conflict is partly due to the fact that
certain growth-enhancing reforms have been fully implemented. These reforms are important to
counter the negative impact of the Maoist conflict and political instability on the investment
climate, as well as to create a basis for sustainable growth once peace is restored in Nepal. On the
other hand certain other reforms have only been partially implemented and this three year growth
record is significantly lower than Nepal's performance in the mid-late nineties (5% average
growth). As discussed above, Nepal's strategy to revive broad-based growth is based on
increasing the fiscal space for pro-poor public investments and improving the investment climate.

Increasing fiscal space

    · The overall macroeconomic framework remained stable. Prudent fiscal and monetary
        policies have helped contain inflation (less than 5%) and maintain a comfortable level of
        reserves (minimum of six months of imports). As a result, the macro targets for Nepal's
        PRGF program with the IMF are on track. However, PRGF reviews have been delayed
        due to slippages on structural benchmarks. Financing provided by PRSC I contributed to a
        reduction in net domestic borrowing, (2.9% of GDP in FY02 to 0.5% in FY05) and
        ensured that the Government budget was financed in a sustainable, non-inflationary
        manner.

    · Tax mobilization and administration: The revenue GDP ratio has increased by 1.5
        percentage points (from 11.5% to 13%) between FY02 and FY05. This increase was due
        to the widening of the tax base, an increase in VAT from 10 percent to 13 percent in 2005
        and improvements in revenue administration. Tax administration reforms in recent years
        included splitting the Inland Revenue Department (IRD) into audit, collection and
        taxpayer service units and the establishment of a Large Taxpayer Unit that focuses on a
        select number of taxpayers whose payables constitute roughly three-quarters of income
        and VAT tax collection. The implementation of ASYCUDA at major customs points and
        implementation of the customs reform agenda also contributed to the improvement in
        domestic revenue. A post entry valuation section has been created within the Department
        of Customs, and within four other major custom points, in order to modernize and make
        the custom valuation procedures more scientific.

    · Expenditure management: In addition to revenue increases, fiscal space for pro-poor
        investments was also created by sharply reducing the number of projects in the
        development budget. In FY03, 160 projects were dropped (30% of the total number of
        projects) in an effort to prioritize development spending ­ this rationalization was a prior
        action for PRSC I. Since then the number of projects has increased marginally (434
        projects in FY04 to 454 in the FY05) and the average allocation per project has increased



                                                  - 15 -

           by around 10% in real terms from FY03-FY05. Budget realism has also improved ­ the
           deviation between total expenditure allocations and actual expenditures declined from
           20% in FY02 to 12% in FY05. Building on the process of scaling down development
           expenditures, HMGN devised a priority classification of its projects and high priority
           activities are fully funded when budgets are released. The MTEF process that was
                                                                                 5/


           introduced in a few pilot ministries in FY03 has now been extended to all ministries.
           Sector wide approaches (SWAp) have been set up in education and health over the past
           two years using the MTEF program-based budgeting framework. The result of the budget
           rationalization and prioritization exercise has been to increase the share of pro-poor
           spending (from 27% of total expenditures in 2002/03 to 31.1% in 2004/05) within a
           fiscally prudent expenditure framework. Security spending has not crowded out pro-poor
           spending and is around 3.4 percent of GDP - low by both regional and conflict-affected
           country standards.      6/




     · Managing contingent liabilities: Reforms in the parastatal sector have moved at a slow
           pace. A combination of bureaucratic delays and litigation resulted in only two (out of
           thirty) non-financial parastatals being privatized / liquidated, while another five are in
           progress. Nepal Telecoms Corporation has been converted into a public limited company.
           The parastatal that poses the biggest threat to fiscal stability is the Nepal Oil Corporation
           (NOC). Petroleum prices have gone up by 25-60 percent (depending on the fuel) since
           December 2003 but adjustments continue to be made in an ad hoc manner. As a result,
           current NOC losses stand at around 1 percent of GDP on an annualized basis. However a
           recent Cabinet decision to raise fuel prices to cover NOC costs and implement an
           automatic pricing formula (a prior action for PRSC II) henceforth is an important step
           forward whose implementation needs to be monitored. HMGN has liberalized the LPG
           market allowing dealers to source directly from suppliers of their choice. Liberalization is
           also planned for other petroleum products, and a draft law for a petroleum regulatory
           framework is being finalized.

Improving the investment climate:

Progress on reforms designed to improve the investment climate are as follows:

     · Reducing transport costs: High transport costs and the lack of connectivity are major
           impediments to Nepal's development. Over the 2003-05 period an additional 575 kms of
           roads (or equivalently 3.5 percent of the existing length) were built focusing on connecting
           district headquarters with the national network and improving access between rural areas
           and market centers. A major road that will link districts in the impoverished Mid and
           Far-western regions will be completed in 2006. Conflict has disrupted construction in this
__________________________
5/
   The fund release system was changed in 2004 to ensure that high priority activities receive one-third of the allocated budget
at the start of the fiscal year compared with one-sixth for lower priority projects.
6/
   Sri Lanka's security spending averaged 5 percent of GDP between 1992 and 2001, a period during which its own internal
conflict was most pronounced, and Pakistan's spending on security averaged 3.7 of GDP between 2000 and 2004..




                                                              - 16 -

  important project but the involvement of road user groups has helped to reduce tensions
  between the two opposing sides. A prior action for PRSC I was the establishment of an
  autonomous Roads Board funded mainly by a fuel levy to oversee road maintenance. This
  new institutional structure faced initial teething and coordination problems during the first
  year which have now been largely resolved. A prior action for PRSC II related to making
  the Birgunj Inland Container Depot operational ­ this was achieved through a bilateral
  agreement between India and Nepal and the appointment of a private terminal manager.
  Six months into the ICD becoming operational, container traffic increased from an initial
  150 containers a month to about 800 a month. Additionally, figures collected over the six
  month period showed that the ICD reduces the transport and transit cost by around 37
  percent.

· Increasing access to power: In mid-2004, a Power Development Fund (PDF) was
  established to stimulate private investment in small and medium hydropower plants and the
  results so far have been encouraging. While only 0.5 percent of national power generation
  was produced by the private sector in 2003/04, this will increase to around 9 following
  agreements signed in 2005. NEA's operations have been unbundled into functional units
  and performance contracts were signed in mid-2003 for generation, and distribution units.
  A performance audit of 18 distribution units (which together capture 70 percent of
  revenue) that were given functional autonomy shows that losses have been significantly
  curtailed. Moreover, an Electricity Theft Control Ordinance was passed in 2004 to further
  check leakages and a cooperative based rural electrification program has recently been
  launched.

· Increasing access to telecom services: A Rural Telecom Service (RTS) license was
  provided to a private operator and operations began in 2005. The number of VDCs with
  access to telecom services increased by 16% between FY03 and FY05. A new
  Telecommunications Policy was approved in March 2004 and the Nepal
  Telecommunications Corporation has been registered under the Company Act enabling the
  government to divest its equity.

· Financial sector reforms: Financial sector reforms progressed steadily on multiple fronts
 though recovering dues from large defaulters has proved difficult. The PRSC I prior
 action related to the appointment of the foreign management teams in two of the largest
 loss-making commercial banks (RBB and NBL). Staff right-sizing took place with the
 implementation of the three phases of a Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS). The
 reduction in overheads and improved lending practices meant that these banks generated
 operating profits in FY04. The two banks now produce audit reports within six months as
 compared with several years in the past. Concurrent to these measures, the Banking and
 Financial Institutions Ordinance (BFI) promulgated in February 2004 unifies five separate
 banking laws under a single umbrella act and strengthens the regulatory and oversight
 functions of Nepal Rastra Bank (the Central Bank). In September 2004, Article 86 of the
 Nepal Rastra Bank Act was amended to further strengthen the Central Bank's ability to
 deal with troubled banks and paves the way for the privatization of Nepal Bank Limited.
 The pursuit of large defaulters, however, has been difficult despite the setting up of a Debt



                                            - 17 -

        Recovery Tribunal.

    · Labor market flexibility: Nepal has one of the most restrictive labor laws in the region and
        the PRSC program supported efforts to amend the rigid provisions in the existing
        legislation. A series of tripartite dialogue between government, employers and employees
        over the past three years led to an agreement on making labor laws more flexible subject
        to the introduction of some form of social security for workers. A new much-improved
        Labor Ordinance was approved by Cabinet in February 2006.

    · Regulatory environment for private sector development. The Secured Transactions
        Ordinance, Insolvency Ordinance and Company Ordinance was approved in September
        2005. Subsequent discussions with the private sector suggest that these pieces of
        legislation are generally viewed positively though implementation arrangements within
        Government need to be further streamlined.

4.2.2. Improving service delivery

Component rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Despite the constraints imposed by conflict on the delivery of basic services, many social sector
outputs and outcomes have improved since 2003. Completion rates in primary have increased by
almost 10 percentage points, an increasing number of communities have management control over
school, health and rural drinking water facilities, the proportion of deliveries attended by
professional health workers increased from 15% in FY03 to 20% in FY05.

Decentralization: The Local Bodies Fiscal Commission was instituted in 2003 and the use of a
block grant formula for the allocation of grants between districts piloted in FY2003/04 budget. In
August 2005, HMGN decided to allow 14 District Development Committees (DDCs) full
authority to decide and implement development programs on a pilot basis. This is a significant
move and involves sectors like education, health, drinking water, electricity, roads and
communication. However, minimum progress was made in the reconciliation of sectoral acts that
are in conflict with the LSGA.

Education: The devolution of primary schools to School Management Committees (SMCs)
started in 2003 and has gained significant momentum. Currently, about 2,300 primary schools
(about 10% of the total) --in 59 of 75 of Nepal's development districts--have been handed over
to SMCs. Legislative changes to the Education Act were made which created a legal basis for this
transfer. The Eighth Amendment to the Education Act in 2005 suspended central recruitment of
teachers. While a rigorous evaluation of the performance of SMC-managed schools is currently
being undertaken, an initial evaluation of a sample of 63 such schools conducted in July 2004
shows overall enrolment, as well as enrolment of Dalit and other excluded students, has increased
and teacher absenteeism has decreased in the schools in the sample. The number of girl students
receiving scholarships almost doubled between FY2003 and FY2004. Completion rates in primary
have increased from 60% in FY 2002 to 69% in FY2004.




                                                  - 18 -

Health: The devolution of health facilities to local management groups has reached sizeable
proportions particularly at the lowest tier. Almost half of the 3100 sub-health posts have been
transferred to community management, along with a far smaller portion of health posts and
primary health care centers. An initial evaluation suggests that contracting-out has been positive
from the users' perspective though awareness campaigns regarding the new roles and
responsibilities of various health delivery actors need to be stepped up. The management of one
district hospital has also been contracted to local management. The number of births attended by
skilled attendants has gone up from 15% if FY2003 to 20% in FY2005, and the percentage of
pregnant women receiving iron tablets has risen sharply from 57% to 88% over the same period.

Drinking water: Relevant regulations to grant operational autonomy to the Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Fund Board were introduced in 2004. This Board funds and supervises NGOs to
help communities form Water Users Groups who build, manage and maintain their own water
systems. Kathmandu water management has not yet been contracted out to a private operator,
though steps towards this end have been taken.

4.2.3. Improving social inclusion

Component rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Reforms to improve inclusion are integrated into on-going overall sectoral reforms. For instance
the Ministry of General Administration has developed an affirmative action plan for the civil
service that is included in the draft revisions to the Civil Service Act. However implementation of
this action plan has been slow. In education, scholarships for girls, Dalits and children from other
marginalized groups are in place and mechanisms for the social audit of these schemes are being
introduced. The number of female students receiving scholarships at the primary level increased
from around 150,000 in FY02 to 225,000 in FY04. In the health management committees, there
are reserved seats for Dalits and women.

The prior condition of PRSC I was the establishment of the Poverty Alleviation Fund (PAF) as an
independent body that channels resources to poor communities. The PAF is now operational,
governed by an autonomous board, and 65 partner organizations in six districts have been
identified. As of mid 2005, the PAF Board had approved funding for 54 projects covering 168
Village Development Committees (VDCs). 60% of beneficiaries from the PAF can be classified
as `extreme poor' and the targeting of ethnic minorities is reflected by the fact that 44% of
beneficiary households are from the `Dalit' group.

4.2.4. Improving governance

Component rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

There have been a number of "technical improvements" on governance issues. However there
have also been a number of policy initiatives, such as the creation of the Royal Commission for
Corruption Control (RCCC) following the royal take-over on February 1st 2005 that
compromised the achievements made thus far. We discuss these issues below:



                                                  - 19 -

The drive towards improving transparency is reflected in a number of ways. Eight new auditing
standards and four accounting standards have been published by the independent Accounting
Standards Board and the Auditing Standards Board. The annual reports of three constitutional
bodies ­ Auditor General, Public Service Commission and Commission for Investigation of Abuse
of Authority (CIAA) ­ that had been withheld for the past three years due to the absence of the
parliament were released in February 2005. The reports paved the way for effective reconciliation
of overdue revenue and other unsettled accounts.

The anti-corruption drive led by the CIAA made some progress during the 2003-2005 period
(see table 4). HMGN has completed necessary consultations with stakeholders and is in the
process of promulgating the new Procurement Ordinance. The Nepal Administrative Staff College
is building its capacity in delivering procurement-related training. However, the Royal
Commission for Corruption Control (RCCC), formed after February 1st 2005 and disbanded a
year later by the Supreme Court undermined the role of the CIAA. There are clear indications that
certain individuals investigated on corruption grounds by the RCCC were questioned due to their
political affiliations. Hence this is an area where there was a clear reversal of the progress made in
earlier years ­ however on the positive side, the recent dissolution of the RCCC is clearly an
important step forward.

Table 4: CIAA activities and outcomes, 2000/01 to 2003/04

                Particulars               2001/02  2002/03   2003/04
 Number of complaints received           2,000    3,687     3,732
 Number of cases filed/registered        61       147       98
 Number of cases adjudicated                      55        129
 Number of full convictions                        43       120
 Number of partial convictions                     4        -
                   Source: PRSP Progress Report

Concurrently, the government has also taken several actions to improve the efficiency and
accountability of the civil service. HMGN has made some progress in rationalizing the process of
transfers, tenures and promotions; transfer data available from the Personnel Information System
(PIS) shows a decline from 6560 transfers in 1999/2000 to 3335 transfers in 2003/04. This has
allowed for greater stability of tenures and policy coherence. Furthermore, the comprehensive PIS
­ which has now been linked to payroll information ­ enables a greater accuracy in civil service
records and allows for the management of postings and transfers. A hiring freeze at the lower
levels of the civil service (`non-gazetted' staff) has been enforced. The Civil Service Act is being
amended in order to improve the diversity of the civil service and introduce greater
performance-related incentives.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.




                                                  - 20 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
(Rating: Modest)
There are three areas where the PRSC program has had an institutional impact. First, the MTEF is
being implemented as a result of which, a forward looking, medium term fiscal strategy bridges
the perceived gaps between the annual budget and the five-year PRSP. As a result, the traditional
budget pathologies pertaining to unrealistic budgets with the proposed expenditures not anchored
in any particular sectoral strategy and not linked to any clear output have dissipated to a large
extent. But a lot remains to be done before one can conclude that the MTEF has had a highly
significant impact on budgetary institutions. For example, there is room to make the performance
based release mechanism more effective by vetting not just the financial performance of any
particular budget line but also the underlying physical progress. Similarly, HMGN is already in a
considerably advanced stage of preparation of sector-wide business plans. These plans will
sharpen the output focus of the budget on the one hand and, by their links to the MTEF, pave way
for the implementation of HMGN's aid integration strategy on the other.

Another key institutional impact of the PRSC program is in supporting reforms that have given
greater autonomy to communities in managing education, health, roads, irrigation and
hydropower services. HMGN has provided a supporting framework for this change such as
through the Eighth Amendment of the Education Act which suspended central recruitment of
teachers and gave greater autonomy to community managed schools in hiring teachers. Progress
in expanding community management in health has been slower than in education, but the pattern
is similar. HMGN has also introduced similar strategies in roads, irrigation and cooperative based
micro-hydro projects. A related area where the PRSC has had `institutional impact' is in
supporting reforms that have established new public-private implementing bodies such as the
Roads Board and the Poverty Alleviation Fund. However coordination and implementation
challenges remain both with the community transfer of services as well as with these new
public-private entities.

At the same time there are areas where clearly there has been little institutional development. For
instance the royal take-over of February 1st has weakened oversight institutions such as the CIAA
and the Public Accounts Committee has not been functional since the abolition of Parliament in
2002. Overall we rate institutional development impact as modest due to these weaknesses and
also because important challenges remain in the areas where progress has been made (MTEF,
community involvement, public-private partnerships).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:


Maoist conflict. The Maoist conflict has had a significant impact on PRSC outcomes. Although
the Nepali economy has shown some resilience to conflict so far, it is unlikely that this can be
sustained. The late 1990s was a period of `low intensity conflict' and growth averaged around
5%. As the conflict has intensified in the past few years average growth rates have also declined
averaging around 3%. The conflict also has negative repercussions on the delivery of basic
services. There are reports of widespread harassment and extortion of local Government officials,



                                                     - 21 -

school teachers and school going children. Periodic strikes have disrupted the flow of goods and
education and health service schedules. At the same time innovative mechanisms such as mobile
health camps have been developed to ensure that basic services, such as immunization, are
provided on a timely basis and the Maoist insurgents have not in general disrupted these essential
services as they recognize their importance to the community.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Political climate. The implementation of the PRSC program in Nepal was significantly affected
by the uncertain political climate. This uncertainty was "outside the control of government" when
"government" is defined as the technocrats who spearheaded Nepal's reforms since 2000. Since
the suspension of the parliamentary process in October 2002, the country has been ruled by four
interim governments. These changes had an impact on the speed of decision-making particularly
during the initial `settling-in' period of each new administration. They also had an impact on the
emphasis given to specific reform issues. On February 1, 2005 the King assumed executive
control over the government for a period of three years. Though the King has made strong
commitments to keep the reform process on track the political climate has become more polarized
and with it the chances of broad-based support for contentious reforms. Moreover, in the absence
of a free press and transparent information, monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of these
programs will need to rely even more on independent survey based sources.

Capacity constraints and bureaucratic sluggishness partially affected the implementation of
certain reforms. The experience with setting up new implementation modalities, be it in roads,
education or health, is that it takes time to get these up and running smoothly. The Roads Board
and the devolution of authority in the social sectors all faced "teething problems" during the first
year or so following these changes. These problems arise due to capacity constraints, the lack of
clarity on roles and responsibilities and the inevitable adjustments required when a new system is
tried out.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(same as section 5.2)

5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
 Rating: Unlikely

1.       The main risk to PRSP outcomes arises from a further escalation of the conflict. As
discussed above this will discourage investment and tourism, reduce Nepal's competitiveness in
export markets thereby resulting in lower growth. Service delivery outcomes will also be affected
as basic supplies (teaching materials, essential medicines etc) will take more time to reach remote
rural areas and Maoist harassment of service providers is likely to continue.




                                                    - 22 -

2.      Moreover there is uncertainty regarding the continuity of certain parts of the reform
agenda, and therefore development outcomes, under the current political environment where
frequent turn-over at the Cabinet level appears to be the norm.

3.      However as the earlier discussion indicates there are many reforms that have proven fairly
resilient. These include reforms in the community provision of services, financial sector, labor,
customs, MTEF all of which are broadly on track. The recent initiatives by the royalist
administration to change the labor law, introduce the new Governance Act and raise petroleum
prices also are important signals that the overall direction of the PRSC program could be
sustained. Our rating is due to the uncertainty associated with the current political / security
situation and the implications for PRSP outcomes, rather than progress with reforms per se.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The PRSC was based on the PRSP priorities and was
fully consistent with the medium term strategy for the Bank's assistance to Nepal as outlined in
the CAS. The program design had strong analytical underpinnings and had been identified by
taking into account the Bank's own comparative advantage vis-à-vis other donors engaged in
Nepal.

The Bank put together a multi-sectoral team with team members drawn from every sector unit
within the South Asia region, complemented by specialists from the networks (e.g. on poverty and
petroleum issues). Macro-economic issues, and certain structural discussions (e.g. financial sector,
public expenditure) were coordinated closely with the IMF. Fiduciary aspects were included by
supporting reforms that strengthen financial management and procurement practices; credit
proceeds were disbursed using standard Bank rules for adjustment operations. The team was
assisted by a working committee of Bank specialists who assessed the environmental implications
of the PRSC program. The gender and social development aspects were an integral part of the
Credit through the `social inclusion' component and a Lead Social Development specialist was a
core member of the preparation team. Monitoring and evaluation indicators were discussed with
counterparts from the beginning of the Credit and in order to ensure adequate focus on this issue
a separate task was created in the Nepal work program for strengthening monitoring and
evaluation focusing on PRSP/PRSC requirements. There was no change in task management and
minimal changes in team composition from project identification to Board presentation. The
Credit amount and timing of the disbursement were appropriate for Nepal's fiscal needs.

7.2 Supervision:

The supervision work is rated satisfactory. The Bank provided timely advice on PRSC I
implementation issues (e.g. on the Roads Board, timing and impact of petroleum price



                                                  - 23 -

adjustments, financial sector reform). Particular attention was paid to areas which were not
already covered by the dialogue on specific investment projects. A month after PRSC I Board
approval a country team retreat was held to discuss PRSC implementation issues. The discussions
focused on the implications of conflict and political turmoil on reform implementation,
cross-cutting themes (civil service reforms and decentralization) and the prior actions for PRSC
II.

The supervision combined day to day dialogue carried out by country office staff, missions every
two months on average and visits by headquarters specialists (e.g. on petroleum sector issues).
One task leader was based in the Katmandu office and the other in the region ­ this contributed to
early detection of implementation problems and timely advice. The task, sector and country
management of the PRSC program has remained unchanged since the preparation of PRSC I. This
continuity has been important in being able to make judgments on the appetite for reform within
the various administrations and retain the institutional memory required to assess the extent, or
lack of progress.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the satisfactory ratings for both lending and supervision, overall Bank performance is
rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The quality of borrower preparation is rated satisfactory. The PRSC program was based on the
strategy and specific reform actions laid out in the PRSP. The Joint Staff Assessment of the PRSP
concludes that the strategy is "coherent, comprehensive and explicit in its emphasis on
implementation". The PRSP also marked the beginning of participatory plan formulation
grounded in a medium term budgetary framework. Government commitment to the PRSC
program was shown by the strong track record of reforms during the 2000-2003 period (see
section 3.3. for a detailed discussion). This track record resulted in Nepal moving from low to
base case of the CAS in late 2002.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance is rated moderately satisfactory. Several reforms
involved fundamental changes in the ways of doing business (e.g. service delivery devolution,
Roads Board etc) and detailed implementation arrangements were not thought through carefully
prior to announcing the policy decision. Nevertheless these `teething problems' in the first year
did not derail these reforms and these initial coordination and role clarity issues have now largely
been resolved.

As discussed earlier Government commitment to reform, and correspondingly implementation
performance, varies by type of reform. The anti-corruption drive, centered around the proper
functioning of the CIAA, lost considerable credibility following the establishment of the RCCC. In
the financial sector several potentially difficult reforms have been implemented such as the
downsizing of the two largest banks. At the same time the large defaulters issue has not been


                                                   - 24 -

resolved. On the other hand, reforms in public expenditure, customs administration, enhancing
community management of social services are largely on track. In short, Government
implementation performance has clearly been mixed, though on balance it is rated as moderately
satisfactory (further details are in section 4.0).

7.6 Implementing Agency:

There is no one single implementing agency for the PRSC program. While the Ministry of Finance
was the key counterpart agency for the PRSC process, responsibility for reform implementation
lay with many different agencies. Hence it is more appropriate to rate the performance of HMGN
as a whole, rather than an individual agency.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory in line with the outcome rating
(page 1).

8. Lessons Learned

Nepal's current image matters for the PRSC program. Nepal's image has suffered
tremendously due to the political instability and ensuing polarization between the key political
actors. This image has clearly worsened the investment climate, particularly foreign investment,
and has dampened growth prospects. Events post-February 1st have also led to a polarization
within the donor community. There are certain development partners who feel that a return to
democracy is a pre-requisite for development assistance. An alleged escalation of human rights
abuses by both sides of the military conflict is also a prime concern for a group of development
partners. Some of these donors are represented on the Executive Board of the World Bank and
feel strongly that the current political/military situation in Nepal is not conducive for World Bank
budget support. Therefore in addition to the new government's progress on the medium term
agenda, it is clear that Nepal's PRSC program is also dependent upon the unfolding political
scenario.

The implication of the uncertainties in Nepal for the PRSC program is the need to continue
to link releases to up-front actions and to remain engaged. The frequent changes at the
Cabinet level meant that it was particularly important for the Bank to remain consistent in its
messages on the PRSC. The Bank repeatedly stressed that PRSC II was contingent on up-front
reform actions particularly since the frequent changes at the political level dampened the
credibility of promises of reform. A related important lesson is that the dialogue between the Bank
and the borrower needs to be maintained at all levels during this uncertain period. The Bank can
play a constructive role by continuing to support the reform-minded technocrats who spearheaded
the PRSP. The costs of not remaining engaged would likely be serious as it would leave the
reform champions isolated and the momentum for certain reforms would be lost.

The distinction between technocrat and politician-driven reforms is important. There
remain many important reforms that are relatively non-controversial (e.g. reducing transit costs
and improving connectivity) and can be spearheaded by committed technocrats. At the same time
there are other reforms that can have a clear short run political cost such as adjusting petroleum


                                                  - 25 -

prices. There is a limited number of this second type of reforms that any Government, particularly
one which does not have a clear mandate from the people, are prepared to carry out in any given
time period. Hence, another lesson is that it is important to classify prior actions according to
their degree of `political costs/benefits' and limit the ones with high political costs in any given
year. Related to this is the fact if technocrat-driven reforms are to be sustained, there has to be a
concerted effort to limit transfers in key secretary-level positions.

There is a trade-off between the predictability of budget support and the strength of the
annual reform programme. One of the objectives underlying the PRSC program was to align
budget support with the annual budget cycle and improve the predictability of resource flows. The
experience in Nepal suggests that this objective needs to be traded-off with the type of reforms
that are possible within the space of twelve months. The first PRSC was based on a track record
built over two years. Hence if providing predictable annual budget support is a primary objective
then expectation levels on the type of reforms that are achievable within a twelve month period
may need to be lowered. Conversely, if the decision to provide budget support is based on a
similar quantum and depth of reforms for each PRSC, then it is likely that the time interval
between PRSCs will be longer than one year ­ as experience has borne out in several countries.

The sustainability of reforms supported by the PRSC program also depends on the ability
to communicate the rationale behind such reforms. HMGN needs to hold regular
consultations with relevant stakeholders, including people within the government, to discuss
reform strategies and objectives. Simple analytical work in a few crucial reform areas can help in
this domestic dialogue. The work on the poverty impact of fuel prices using the latest household
survey data, for example, helped assure key decision-makers that the social costs would be
minimal. This was used as part of an awareness raising campaign in late 2004 prior to the increase
in fuel prices announced in January 2005.

Experience with PRSC I also shows that reforms in the judiciary system clearly lag behind
reforms on other fronts. This manifests itself most clearly in the loopholes in the judiciary that
some large willful defaulters have been able to exploit, dampening the progress on reforms in the
financial sector. Similarly, despite CIAA's commendable success on multiple fronts, prosecution
of some large corruption cases has been difficult. These experiences call for some realism, both at
the time of program design and evaluation, in areas where the judiciary is integrally involved.

Major policy shifts in service delivery require a detailed implementation plan: While
`learning by doing' is clearly an important part of the process, future policy changes that involve
large shifts in business processes will require a more careful roll-out plan. For instance several of
the problems faced by the Roads Board in the first year of operation were due to the lack of
clarity on roles and responsibilities between the Board and other agencies involved in the road
sector.




                                                  - 26 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Introduction

The singular objective of Nepal's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)/Tenth Plan
(2002-2007) is poverty reduction, which has also been the focus of the First Poverty Reduction
Support Credit (PRSC). To achieve this overarching goal of poverty reduction from 42 percent to
30 percent, PRSP is structured around generating equitable and broad based growth; improving
service delivery; inclusive development and governance improvement as four strategic pillars to
address Nepal's development challenges in a conflict environment. The PRSC focused on the core
reform areas identified in the PRSP that aimed at: (i) ensuring macro-economic stability and
creating fiscal space; (ii) improving the investment climate; (iii) enhancing decentralization of
services to empower and increase access of public goods by beneficiaries; (iv) expeditious
implementation of targeted programs to mainstream development to underserved regions and
people; and, cognizant of prerequisite of governance improvement for overall pro-poor growth
and improvement in service delivery, (v) strengthening effectiveness of civil service,
anti-corruption drives, accountability and transparency.

The beginning of the implementation of PRSC reform programs

The Bank approved the first PRSC in the amount of SDR 51 million on November 18, 2003,
immediately after the conclusion of PRGF arrangement with the International Monetary Fund by
HMGN. The Fund program provided for balance-of-payment support that hinged on HMGN's
successful adherence to critical macro-economic and financial sector reform benchmarks. The
combination of PRGF and PRSC created an environment for far-reaching reforms while at the
same time ensuring short-term macro-economic and financial stability.

The timing of PRSC and its funding modality have also played an important part in successful
implementation of critical reform programs. For consecutively three years prior to PRSC years,
HMGN was running huge fiscal deficits, substantial portion of which was unplanned and was
financed through overdraft from the central bank. There was a growing sense within the
government that some kind of strong measure for ensuring fiscal discipline needs to be
institutionalized, which subsequently gave rise to the Medium-term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF). The government had also credible policy document prepared through wider stakeholder
consultation that charted out clear road-map for its goal of poverty reduction. These events and
instruments provided PRSC reform program a sound platform for implementation.

Overall assessment of the PRSC instrument

PRSC funding was a major departure from the traditional project financing. The flexibility of
allocation made MTEF implementation much easier for the government and at the same time, as
will be explained later, domestic borrowing could be kept at a reasonable limit that was deemed
suitable for the macro-economic stability.




                                                - 27 -

The beauty of PRSC instrument is that it fully embodies the aid alignment and harmonization
principles. There is no better way than this for financing domestic development priorities while
focusing on the outcomes and critical reforms that are necessary for a robust and equitable growth
in the future.

Along with the PRSC implementation, the government also initiated the outcome-based budget
preparation and implementation in critical sectors, such as education and health. The government
also has been regularly monitoring the progress of PRSP implementation and annual progress
report has been made public.

This is not an exaggeration but the Nepalese economy performed reasonably well in 2004 and
2005 in spite of threatening conflict environment, which was possible mainly due to the
implementation of PRSC reforms. With the increasing involvement of local communities in the
public expenditure process, there was less erosion in the effectiveness of development spending
and also in the government outreach programs.

The PRSC process was not, however, entirely a smooth sailing for the government. There were
difficulties at times. Although PRSC program drew almost entirely from domestic PRSP in
identifying critical reform agenda, there was some tendency of disowning the reform agenda in
different segments of the government. This can partially be attributed to HMGN's inability to
properly educate the system, but mainly it is due to conventional attitude of disowning the
donor-driven reform program.

Achievements under the first PRSC

The PRSC reform program tied itself to the four pillars of HMGN's PRSP, namely, broad-based
economic growth, improving service delivery, promoting social inclusion and governance. It
would be more relevant if achievements are discussed under each of these pillars of poverty
reduction.

(i)     Broad-based economic growth

Overall indicators:     In a conflict environment that thwarts development space, His Majesty's
Government of Nepal (HMGN) was able to implement a number of reform activities to maintain a
growth rate of 3.4 percent in 2003/04, from a negative growth rate of 0.6 percent in 2001/02.
Fiscal space augmented through revenue growth of 1.6 percent of GDP, gross expenditure
maintained at 19 percent of GDP, domestic borrowing reduced by 1.8 percent of GDP between
2001/02 to 2004/05 while donors' confidence increased, deficit after grants reduced from 5.6
percent of GDP to 3.5 percent of GDP and pro poor expenditure increased. Since FY 200/03, the
inflation level has been contained at less than 5 percent annually with prudential fiscal deficit and
money supply.

Custom reforms:          In order to implement systematic and coherent revenue improvement
measures, HMGN had constituted Fiscal Reform Taskforce as part of the preparatory work for
first PRSC. Most of the recommendations of this taskforce are implemented and that led to the



                                                - 28 -

amendment of Income Tax Act and Regulations, broadening of the base of both income tax and
value-added tax. Inefficiency in custom administration was the reason for low revenue
performance, while at the same time, it was bottleneck to trade facilitation. The government is
now implementing three-year custom reform program. This includes strengthening and expansion
of ASYCUDA computerized custom clearance system to more custom points so that human
interface in custom clearance is minimized; selectivity based on risk-assessment is in place in large
custom point that eliminates time and hassles for the importers at the custom point; custom tax
clearance procedural has been simplified; subjective judgment in custom valuation has been
replaced by transaction value system.

Inland revenue reforms:      Strengthening of Inland Revenue included broadening of income and
value-added tax base, introduction of dedicated and specialized large tax payers' unit, and
computerization of tax assessment and administration and limitation of exemptions. HMGN
increased the VAT rate from 10 to 13 percent during this period and surveillance and supervision
of VAT compliance has been strengthened through the introduction of lottery system for the
customers, mandatory provision of displaying tax plates by shopkeepers and through the provision
of qualified tax auditors. The government has also made all the preparation for the introduction of
pilfer-proof excise duty stamps/stickers. This is expected to reduce excise leakages particularly in
the case of cigarette and alcohol through in-built enforcement mechanism.

Public expenditure reforms:     The introduction of Medium Term Expenditure Framework and its
improvement in successive years has ensured the following: (a) resource allocation is based on the
priority of the program/project, (b) highest priority programs/projects are fully funded and fully
secured against resource vulnerability, (c) security-related expenditures have been contained to a
prudent level and in spite of escalating conflict in the early part of the PRSC implementation, the
government stuck to its MTEF allocation and did not allow the fiscal balance to distort, (d)
enhanced allocation to pro-poor programs/projects and also to the social sector. The fund-flow
to the programs/projects is tied to their performance. Government's exposure to contingent
liabilities created by loss-making public enterprises has now been considerably reduced. Ten
public enterprises have been closed down and they are in varying stages of privatization
effectively stopping incurrence of additional contingent liabilities. As part of financial sector
reform program, two large public-sector commercial banks have been put under professional
management and this measure is expected to have saved government from a terrible financial burst
in the future. There has been considerable reduction in their non-performing assets apparently
decreasing the government's contingent liability. Government has stopped accepting supplier's
credits and arrears to public enterprises have also been cleared.

Improving investment climate:      Cognizant of the need to strengthen public-private partnership in
building country's infrastructures, bold reform measures were initiated to improve investment
climate. In transportation, investment were prioritized towards district headquarter linking roads
and rural roads expansion, maintenance of strategic road networks and operationalization of
inland container depot, one of the many to be constructed, was handed over to private sector.
Roads Board has been fully operationalized along with the provision of fuel levy and toll tax
going to the Board. In irrigation, management of large and medium scale irrigation systems were
contracted to private sector. Internal unbundling of Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) was



                                                - 29 -

completed so that generation, transmission and distribution would each function as different profit
centers. This is evidently increasing the efficiency of NEA. In telecom sector, the entry of private
sector has been facilitated through appropriate regulatory mechanism. As a result, tele-density has
now substantially increased. These activities are expected to ameliorate impediments to
agriculture productivity and manufacturing and service industries growth, all led by private sector.
HMGN also introduced number of new laws and mended the existing ones with a view to
improving the overall investment climate and they include: Insolvency Act, Secured Transactions
Act, a new Company Act replacing the existing Act, BOOT Act. The government revised the
negative list for foreign investment and opened up several areas for investment.

Financial sector reform: The focus of the reform during this PRSC period was strengthening of
the capacity of Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) as a banking sector regulator. For the first time, the
external audit of NRB was conducted by an international firm. NRB developed and implemented
operational manuals to standardize its core functions including the on-site supervision of
commercial banks. In addition to implementing reforms in two public sector commercial banks,
restructuring of Agriculture Development Bank has also been done.

(ii)    Improving Service Delivery.

Improving decentralization framework:           The Local Self Governance Act (1999) espoused
beneficiary participation of and management by local communities in improving and bringing
public goods close to door steps.       In order to strengthen the fiscal position of the local
governments, the legal provisions were subsequently amended giving wider revenue collection
authority to District Development Committees (DDCs) and also clarifying revenue sharing
arrangements in the tourism and hydro-power generation sector. The government is also
implementing the Expenditure Assignment study recommendations in a phased manner and
conditional grant system along with specific mandate in small infrastructure, agriculture extension,
primary healthcare and primary education has been introduced. While the resources for the
delivery of education, primary healthcare, drinking water services and other small infrastructures
flow through the DDCs as conditional grants, the local communities take the leadership in the
management, control and allocation of resources in these sectors. In education, schools were
transferred to School Management Communities along with funds and right to hire and fire.
Essential health care activities were made the focal thrust of health sector investment delivered
through health posts, handed over to local management committees. Preliminary results of
decentralized mode of service delivery are very encouraging. Encouraged by these outcomes,
government has made a policy decision of piloting full-scale devolution of services in 14 districts
of the country. The government also revised Irrigation Policy and Regulation to empower Water
Users' Association to sanction the defaulters.

(iii)   Inclusive development.

Overall effort and the creation of PAF:         Poverty reduction targets can be achieved only if
inclusive development activities benefit not only historically underserved regions but also people
marginalized in past development process.        Targeting of such programs has always been a
challenge. As part of PRSC program, HMGN is piloting targeting of demand driven community



                                                - 30 -

activities identified by the poor themselves, especially the excluded groups, to be scaled up to
community level at a later date. Under this general budget support, specific instruments such as
Poverty Alleviation Fund as well as through other interventions access of excluded in primary
education, civil service, credit, drinking water, health facilities and overall increase in public
spending in the under served areas were initiated, among others.

Increasing access to schooling for girls and dalit households:   With the introduction of targetted
scholarship scheme and provision of money for stationary and ancillary study materials for girls
and all dalit students, the enrolment in the primary schools from these categories has substantially
increased. Encouraged by this, HMGN from current fiscal year introduced full scholarship scheme
for all girl students of 22 remote districts passing school leaving certificates so that they can
pursue secondary education without any financial dependence on the family.

(iv)    Governance.

Effectiveness of civil service and anti-corruption drive:         No development efforts can be
expanded or outputs sustained without parallel improvements in overall governance. Increase of
transparency and accountability are two twin objectives of the reform measures supported by this
general budget support program. Transparency of allocation and accountability of use of funds
were hallmarks under reforms in financial management while formulation of a new procurement
act, as per international norms and standards, is being pursued. To make civil service accountable
to the people, a civil service act was amended with more affirmative actions and merit based
promotion while limiting premature transfers. Anti corruption institutions were strengthened
enabling rise in conviction rates at the Special Court.

Enhancing public accountability: Public display of Citizen's Charter explaining the
procedures for obtaining services and expected time and fees has been mandatory in all
government offices interfacing with the public. This has substantially reduced rent-seeking within
the government system. This is accompanied by public disclosure of information on public works
projects and regular public audit. This has been found to be an effective means of ensuring the
rights of local workers in terms of their wages and work conditions. With a view to improve
transparency in public procurement, a new Procurement law in the final stages of enactment and
more than 200 government officers have been trained in good procurement practices. In addition
to sanity in public financial management, it is also equally important to have a sound corporate
sector. Autonomous Accounting Standards Board and Auditing Standards Boards have been set
up and made fully functional to issue standards for the corporate sector.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

None




                                                 - 31 -

          Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

          Nepal: Progress towards PRSC II reform benchmarks


     Objectives        PRSC II reform benchmarks (prior                     Progress in meeting PRSC II benchmarks
                                    actions in bold)
Macro-economic       Satisfactory implementation of the                  Fiscal and monetary policies have broadly remained
stability            macro-economic framework agreed with the            prudent and as a result PRGF remains on track.
                     IMF
Restructuring        (i) Extend initial MTEF work to all sectors.        (i) MTEF has been extended to all sectors and covers
public expenditures                                                      both capital and recurrent side of the budget. The
                     (ii) Annual plans of high priority projects,        practice of classifying the budget into regular and
                     with each trimester's budget allocation,            development spending has been discontinued in favor
                     included in the budget book.                        of GFS-consistent capital and current classification.

                                                                         (ii) Annual plans of high priority projects along with
                                                                         their allocations every trimester are included in the
                                                                         budget book and a performance based release
                                                                         mechanism dictates subsequent releases.

Tax restructuring    Begin implementation of Fiscal                      VAT rates were revised upwards from 10% to 13%. A
                     Commission's recommendations.                       Large Taxpayer's Unit set up within the Inland
                                                                         Revenue Department and a number of sweeping
                                                                         reforms successfully implemented in customs
                                                                         administration.

Managing             (i) Move to at least quarterly price                 (i) Trigger partially fulfilled. Decision to implement
contingent           adjustments using a transparent automatic            automatic pricing formula for fuel prices announced by
liabilities          price formula for petroleum products.                Cabinet in February 2006 ­ implementation will need
                     (ii) Liberalize LPG market by allowing               to be monitored.
                     dealers to source directly from suppliers of         (ii) LPG market has been liberalized.
                     their choice.                                        (iii) Legislative preparations for liberalizing the
                     (iii) Draft legislation to establish independent     market for other POL products currently in progress.
                     regulatory agency for petroleum sector               Draft Act has been prepared and discussed among
                     (iv) At least half of the arrears paid off to the    stakeholders but without closure on the pricing
                     public utilities using designated budget code        framework, this is unlikely to be enacted.
                     in FY04                                              (iv) Half the arrears were paid off in FY04 and the
                     (v) Complete the liquidation/privatization of        remainder in FY05. However new arrears build-up
                     8 state-owned companies                              will need to be closely monitored.
                     (vi) Implement Foreign Aid Policy by banning         (v)Two SOE privatizations completed; five SOEs
                     all new suppliers credits.                           liquidated.
                                                                          (vi) The ban on suppliers credit remains in place.
Restructuring the    (i) Transfer fuel levy receipts to Roads             (i) Trigger fulfilled as specified. A separate revenue
transport sector     Board in a timely manner to ensure
                     regular resources for road maintenance.              code has been designated to make fuel levy receipts
                                                                          directly available to the Roads Board through the

                     (ii) Make the Birgunj ICD operational                budget.

                     through finalizing the (Nepal-India) rail            (ii) Trigger fulfilled as specified. Birgunj ICD has
                     agreement and appointing a terminal                  been made operational with the appointment of a
                     management operating company through                 terminal management company in place. However,
                     competitive tender.                                  despite the finalization of Nepal- India rail agreement,
                                                                          handling of cargo for bilateral trade with India remains
                     Sirsiya inland container depots managed and          minimal.
                     operated by a private terminal operator.




                                                                     - 32 -

Restructuring the  Establish Power Development Fund.               Power Development Fund established and
power sector       Implement program of cooperative based rural    operationalized.
                   electrification.                                NEA has been unbundled into generation and
                   Complete internal unbundling of NEA             distribution units and performance contracts have been
                   through signing of agreements between NEA       signed with private operators which are running these
                   and all generation/transmission centers.        units as autonomous "profit centers". NEA system
                                                                   losses declined from 23.6% in 2003 to 22.9% in 2005.
Restructuring the  Rural telecom operator in place                 A rural telecom service provider has begun operation in
telecom sector                                                     534 VDCs in Eastern Nepal. Two private companies ­
                   Review privatization options and initiate       UTL and Spice Mobile - have started providing basic
                   privatization process of NTC.                   telephone services and mobile phone services
                                                                   respectively. NTC has been corporatized and the
                                                                   government is in the process of divesting its stake in
                                                                   the company.
Restructuring the  Draft amendments to relevant legislation        Trigger not fulfilled. While various rounds of dialogue
labor market       to make labor employment and
                   retrenchment laws more flexible (e.g.           between unions, employers and the government have

                   introducing performance based pay, reviewing    been held, an agreeable draft on the amendment to the

                   240 day rule).                                  law has not emerged.

Restructuring      (i) Implement ASYCUDA selectivity module         (i) ASYCUDA extended to 4 additional custom points
customs            (ii) Align transit documentation with Indian     in Mechi, Krishnanagar, Tatopani and Gaur.
                   EDIFACT system                                   Implementation of selectivity and risk management
                   (iii) Create a post-entry valuation section      module remains outstanding.
                   (iv) Develop a code of conduct specific to       (ii) Little progress in aligning transit documentation
                   customs employees.                               with EDIFACT system.
                                                                    (iii) A valuation and post-clearance audit section with
                                                                    the central department of customs is charged with the
                                                                    task of carrying out randomized post-clearance
                                                                    verification, inspection and audit.
                                                                    (iv) A code of conduct for custom employees is
                                                                    presently under implementation.

Restructuring the  (i) Central Bank begins implementation of an    (i) The practice of on-site bank examination has been
financial sector   agreed on-site bank examination program for     institutionalized and is presently ongoing.
                   all commercial banks on a two year rolling
                   basis.                                          (ii) The external audit of NRB has been completed.

                   (ii) Conduct an external audit of NRB by a      (iii) Management teams have complied fully with

                   reputable firm                                  disclosure requirements for RBB and NBL and
                                                                   quarterly financial statements are made publicly
                   (iii) Management teams to update accounts       available on a timely basis.
                   and comply with disclosure requirements for
                   RBB and NBL.                                   (iv) Trigger partially fulfilled. While target staffing
                                                                  levels have been achieved through various rounds of
                   (iv) Implement scheme to rationalize excess    VRS in NBL, progress on rightsizing at RBB and NRB
                   staff at NRB, NBL and RBB and resolve a        has been less satisfactory. Although, both the banks
                   number of large defaulter cases                have also become profitable, progress on resolving large

                   (v) HMGN to announce decision on the           defaulter cases is slow.

                   medium run strategy (e.g. privatization,       (v) HMGN has announced its decision to privatize both
                   merger, liquidation) for RBB and NBL.          RBB and NBL in the medium term.

                   (vi) Complete statutory/external audits of two (vi) Audits of the two main development banks ADBN
                   main development banks (ADBN and NIDC).        and NIDC have been completed.

Improve            (i) A fiscal framework prepared to implement    (i) The government has piloted full devolution of all
decentralization   the decentralization reform program             development-type functions in 14 districts, and has
framework          according to the LSGA                           introduced conditional and unconditional grants.
                                                                   However there has been very little progress in the
                   (ii) Reconciliation of the LSGA and the         formulation and implementation of the overarching
                   remaining conflicting sectoral acts and         fiscal framework to guide these efforts.
                   legislations.



                                                               - 33 -

                                                                      (ii) Reconciliation of the sectoral legislations in conflict
                                                                      with the LSGA remains outstanding as well.
Strengthen private   (i) Introduce private sector water supply        (i) Progress on contracting out the provision of drinking
provision of social  operator in Kathmandu.                           water in Kathmandu has been slow
services
                     (ii) Make Rural Water Board autonomous          (ii) Trigger fulfilled. Rural Water Fund Board is
                     to improve effectiveness of community           operational as an autonomous entity.
                     based drinking water services
                                                                     (iii) One additional district hospital was contracted out
                     (iii) Contract out the management of at least   to community management taking the cumulative total
                     two district hospitals.                         of community managed hospitals to 2.

                     (iv) Conduct study on options for contracting   (iv) The distribution of school textbooks has been
                     out school textbook publication to private      privatized on a pilot basis in five districts and cash
                     sector and introducing cash grants to schools   grants for textbooks have been introduced but the
                     for textbooks                                   publication remains in the public domain.

                     (v) Rationalize incentives for irrigation to    (v) Subsidy regime remains unchanged.
                     promote greater private sector investment in
                     irrigation                                      (vi) Over 300 large and medium irrigation schemes
                                                                     have been contracted out.
                     (vi) Contract out the operations and
                     maintenance of three government managed
                     medium and large irrigation systems to the
                     private sector on a pilot basis.
Strengthen local     (i) Transfer 600 primary schools, 100            (i) Trigger fulfilled as specified. Number of schools
community            secondary schools and 200 lower secondary        handed over to local communities: 2220 in 60 districts.
participation in     schools to community management.
education, health,                                                    (ii) Block grants to primary, lower secondary and

drinking water,      (ii) Block grants to community funded            secondary schools handed over to the community cover
                     primary schools to cover 50% of teachers'        50, 25 and 25 percent of teachers' salaries respectively.
agriculture,         salaries and to lower secondary schools to
irrigation and       cover 25% of teachers' salaries                  (iii) Number of sub-health posts handed over to local
roads                                                                 communities: 1114
                     (iii) Handover 24 Health Posts (HPs) and 12
                     Primary Health Centers (PHCs) to                 (iv) Trigger partially fulfilled. All EHC interventions
                     management committees.                           have been classified as priority one interventions and
                                                                      are being implemented in various degrees in all 75
                     (iv) Implement Essential Health Care             districts.
                     services in 14 districts, prioritizing those
                     with poor health indicators.                     (v) Irrigation Policy revised to give Water Users
                                                                      Associations power to sanction defaulters
                     (v) Revise Irrigation Policy and Regulation to
                     give Water Users Associations the legal
                     power to sanction defaulters.

                    (vi) Initiate improvements to three hundred      (vi) 300 irrigation schemes upgraded and handed over to
                    farmer-managed irrigation schemes prior to       water users associations.
                    hand-over to the water users association.
                                                                     (vii) Extension services are being provided through the
                    (vii) Extension services provided through the    District Agriculture Development Fund in six districts
                    establishment of District Agriculture
                    Development Fund using the private sector and (viii) Road Users Groups not receiving road tolls as toll
                    NGOs in six districts.                           collection impeded by insurgency

                    (viii) Local road tolls handed over to Road User
                    Groups (RUGs) for the maintenance of local
                    roads in 20 districts.




                                                                  - 34 -

Ensure an effective    PAF financed projects are primarily targeted    PAF started operation in six pilot districts.
Poverty Alleviation    to formerly conflict affected areas.
Fund (PAF)
Increase access to     Begin implementation of scholarship             Trigger fulfilled as specified. Scholarship packages for
schooling for girls    package for girls and Dalit children in         girls and students from disadvantaged groups are under
and 'Dalit'            secondary schools.                              implementation. There are also additional incentive
households                                                             grants to supplement block grants for community
                                                                       schools that enroll certain numbers of Dalit and female
                                                                       students
Improve the            (i) Inclusion of data on gender, caste and      (i) Data on gender, caste and ethnic diversity for both
diversity of the civil ethnic diversity for both new recruits and the  new recruits and the civil service publicly available.
service                civil service on an annual basis.
                                                                       (ii) Review of civil service exam system to assess
                       (ii) Carry out a review of the civil service    possible sources of gender/caste/ethnic bias not done
                       exam to assess possible sources of
                       ethnic/caste/gender bias and present            (iii) A new civil service act now provides HMGN the
                       recommendations to Cabinet                      legal space to recruit candidates from underprivileged
                                                                       groups into the civil service. The Ministry of General
                       (iii) Begin implementation of scholarship       Administration has been tasked with identifying
                       program for SLC pass women, Dalits, Janjatis    measures to support such recruitment including the
                       from low income families to prepare them for    development of a scholarship scheme for such
                       entrance in the Civil Service.                  candidates to be instituted before the next civil service
                                                                       examination in February 2006
Improve the            (i) Link Personnel Information System (PIS)      (i) The PIS is being linked to the payroll system.
effectiveness of the   to payroll system to ensure accurate civil
civil service          service records and prevent unauthorized
                       recruitment                                      (ii) A personnel information system for teachers is
                                                                        being computerized and 57,000 out of 80000 teaching
                       (ii) Conduct a census of teachers and expand     positions have been captured by the TPIS.
                       the PIS to cover all employees within the
                       Ministry of Education and Sports                 (iii) There is a hiring freeze at levels 3 &4 which cover
                                                                        bulk of the civil service.
                       (iii) Maintain existing hiring freeze on
                       non-gazetted civil servants
                                                                        (iv) Trigger partially fulfilled. While the PIS system
                                                                        shows an overall decline in the number of transfers, the
                       (iv) Ensure adequate tenure at senior civil      post-February 1 political developments have resulted in
                       service level, strengthen capacity of            frequent and arbitrary transfers of senior civil servants.
                       Ministry of General Administration to
                       oversee transfers and publicly report
                       transfer data.
                                                                        (v) Salary decompression, position re-classification and
                       (v) Undertake position re-classification and     options for lateral entry have not been carried out.
                       grading, further decompress salaries, and
                       develop options for lateral entry.
Improve the            (i) Revise IRD Citizen's Charter to             (i) The Citizens Charter has been revised to include
effectiveness of key   incorporate shorter deadlines, penalties,       details of taxpayers rights and the deadlines for
public agencies        grievance redressal procedures based on         providing services including receipts, forms and refunds
                       stakeholder consultation.                       have been brought down to twenty four hours in most
                                                                       cases. There is as yet no specific grievance redressal
                       (ii) Create HMGN portal (consolidated           mechanism incorporated into the charter.
                       website) with important forms, Government
                       Orders, circulars etc.                          (ii) A High Level Commission on Information
                                                                       Technology has overseen the development of a One Stop
                                                                       Government ( www.nepalhmg.gov.np) which contains
                                                                       important citizen related information and forms. In
                       (iii) Establish GRUs in two more ministries.    addition most departments now have websites with
                                                                       important citizen focused information.




                                                                    - 35 -

                                                                    (iii) Governance Reform Units (GRU's) were originally
                                                                    established in the Education, Health and Agriculture
                                                                    Ministries. Such units have now been established in two
                                                                    more Ministries ­ MLD and Ministry of Labor and
                                                                    Transport Management.
Improve financial  (i) Ensure Budget fund release in FY04 is         (i) Performance based release mechanism for P1
management         based on (i) priority for P1 projects and (ii)    projects are being implemented. However, performance
                   performance based criteria.                       is presently monitored only on the basis of financial
                                                                     progress as the agency handling the releases has little
                   (ii) Publish FY04 revenue and expenditure         capacity to monitor and assess real physical progress.
                   figures each trimester and physical
                   performance of all P1 projects. Post revenue      (ii) Trimester revenue and expenditure are published
                   and expenditure information in front of           on a timely basis but verification of physical
                   selected Village Development Committee            performance of P1 projects is still only done on an
                   offices.                                          annual basis.

                   (iii) Prepare and enact a new Procurement         (iii) Trigger partially fulfilled. The Procurement Act
                   Law and begin implementation                      has been drafted but not yet promulgated.

                   (iv) Implement major recommendations from         (iv) Auditor General's report released for first time
                   Audit of AG's office                              since 2002. However, there is no mechanism to monitor
                                                                     whether the recommendations in the AG's reports are
                   (v) Create an autonomous Financial                being implemented. The CFAA had stressed the need
                   Accounting Standards Board and Board of           for MOF to take a more proactive role in implementing
                   Auditing Standards and benchmark Nepali           major recommendations but mechanisms for monitoring
                   accounting standards with international ones      and reporting actions taken remain absent.

                   (vi) Design new Chart of Accounts in line         (v) Accounting and Auditing Standards Boards have
                   with IMF's General Financial Statistics           been created under the Institute of Chartered
                   classification.                                   Accountants of Nepal (ICAN).

                                                                     (vi) Starting from FY05 budget, HMGN has classified
                                                                     budget by recurrent and capital expenditure. This is
                                                                     the first step towards the IMF's GFS. Designing new
                                                                     chart of accounts accordingly is in process.
      Strengthen  (i) Significantly increase CIAA resources and     (i) Regional field offices of the CIAA have been set up in
      anti-       establish regional offices in 5 zones in FY04     5 districts.
      corruption
      measures.   (ii) HMGN to draft departmental Corruption        (ii) The CIAA has released 49 sets of Working
                  Prevention Strategies for six departments with a Procedures for departments aimed at creating more
                  major revenue, expenditure and/or regulatory      transparent systems that will support the prevention of
                  function.                                         corruption.

                                                                    (iii) No formal review has been conducted; Civil
                  (iii) HMGN to review appointment procedures Servants seconded to the CIAA and NVC are covered
                  for personnel seconded to CIAA and NVC to         under the Civil Service Act which establishes a minimum
                  ensure stability of tenure.                       tenure of 2 years. While overall decline of transfers has
                                                                    been seen, issues of tenure continue to be a problem
                                                                    area.

                  (iv) Review the functioning of Special Courts     (iv) A consultative exercise has been launched by the
                  and     provide   recommendations      for    moreMinistry of Law and Justice to discuss the expansion of
                  expeditious processing of corruption cases        the Special Courts to deal with the issues of delays in
                                                                    judicial processing of anti-corruption cases. This is a
                                                                    precursor to a formal review
                  (v) HMGN to develop a public outreach and
                  education strategy regarding corruption,
                  including regular surveys and annual progress     (v) HMGN through the CIAA has developed a public
                  reports.



                                                                 - 36 -

                                                                  outreach and education strategy which includes
                                                                  consultative exercises with civil society organization and
                 (vi) Formulate Freedom of Information Bill in    government bodies, and the publication and
                 FY04.                                            dissemination of education material through pamphlets
                                                                  and posters. A survey has been conducted on public
                                                                  perceptions of corruption prone processes which should
                                                                  further support institutional reform. However the survey
                                                                  has not yet been circulated widely or published

                                                                  (vi) No progress in drafting a Freedom of Information Bill

Strengthen        (i) Work initiated on basic poverty profile      (i) Report titled " Poverty Trends in Nepal", made
outcomes          with comparisons with NLSS I and make data       public in September 2005.
monitoring and    publicly available.

evaluation (M&E)                                                   (ii) Following survey rationalization and prioritization
                  (ii) Decide on appropriate instrument to track   exercise, Demographic Household Survey was
                  outcomes in between NLSS rounds.                 identified to track outcomes in between NLSS rounds.

                  (iii) Implement a new expenditure tracking       (iii) Expenditure tracking survey for roads and health
                  survey covering other major sectors.             carried out.

                  (iv) Produce first annual PRSP progress          (iv) PRSP progress report completed and disseminated.
                  report and disseminate widely
                                                                   (v) Central Monitoring Unit within National Planning
                  (v) Coordinate the data collection and           Commission established.
                  analysis plan presented in the PRSP
                                                                   (vi) District level monitoring and evaluations needs
                  (vi) Complete capacity building needs            assessment on-going.
                  assessment for M&E




                                                               - 37 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                               Credit/Grant Disbursements
                                      (SDR Million)



CATEGORY            ORIGINAL             ACTUAL            DATE OF
                    ALLOCATION           DISBURSEMENTS     DISBURSEMENT
SINGLE (PRSC I)     51.0                 51.0              December 19, 2003




                                         - 38 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 39 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              January - July          22     2 Economists, 1 External Affairs
              2003                           Specialist, 1 Financial
                                             Management Specialist, 2 Private
                                             Sector Development Specialists,
                                             1 Operation Advisor, 1
                                             Education Specialist, 1 Drinking
                                             Water and Sanitary Engineer, 1
                                             Transport Specialist, 1
                                             Agriculture Specialist, 1 Health
                                             Specialist, 1 Social Development
                                             Specialist, 1 Procurement
                                             Specialist, 1 Local Government
                                             Speciast, 1 Energy Specialist, 1
                                             Communications Specialist, 1
                                             Financial Sector Specialist, 1
                                             Public Sector Specialist, 3 Peer
                                             Reviewers

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              September 2003          13     2 Economists, 1 Legal
                                             Counselor, 1 External
                                             Affairs Specialist, 1
                                             Financial Manage-ment
                                             Specialist,
                                              1 Education Specialist,
                                              1 Drinking water and
                                             Sanitary Engineer, 1
                                             Transport Specialist, 1
                                             Health Specialist, 1 Trade
                                             Economist, 1 Social
                                             Scientist,
                                             1 Finance Specialist

 Supervision
              February 2004 -          19    2 Economists, 2 External
              October 2004                   Affairs Specialists, 1
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist, 2 Private Sector
                                             Development Specialists, 1
                                             Operations Advisor, 1
                                             Education Specialist, 1
                                             Drinking Water and Sanitary
                                             Engineer, 1 Transport
                                             Specialist, 1 Agriculture
                                             Specialist, 1 Health
                                             Specialist, 1 Social
                                             Development Specialist, 1



                                              - 40 -

                                            Procurement Specialist, 1
                                            Local Government
                                            Specialist, 1 Energy
                                            Specialist, 1
                                            Communication Specialist,
                                            1 Financial Sector Specialist,
                                            1 Public Sector Specialist


 ICR
                                      1     Research Assistant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               60                          223700
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    15                           56000
  Supervision                              28                           52900
  ICR                                       4                           22000
  Total                                  107                           354600




                                            - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Nepal: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and JSA, Report No.26674-NEP

Nepal: Poverty Reduction Support Credit Program Document, Report No. 26556-NEP

Nepal: PRSP First Annual Progress Report

Nepal: PRSP Second Annual Progress Report

Nepal CAS Report No. 2003 26509-NEP

Nepal SAC Preparation Mission Aide Memoire January 2003

Nepal Country Management / Country Team Review Meeting of Draft Initiating Memorandum
for the Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit, April 3, 2003

Nepal: PSAC Regional Operations Committee Meeting Minutes April, 29th, 2003

Nepal: PRSC Operations Committee Meeting Minutes July 7th, 2003

Nepal: PRSC Agreed Minutes of Negotiation September 16th 2003




                                             - 44 -

- 45 -

