                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                        Report No. 31959




              SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                    HIS MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL

                  FIRST POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
                               (Credit No. 3830-NEP)


                                  April 27, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region


                               Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                                 For Programmatic Adjustment Operations

  Operation ID: P074685                                 Operation Name: First Poverty Reduction Support Credit
  Team Leader: Hassan Zaman / Roshan Bajracharya        TL Unit: SASPR
                                                        Report Date: April 27, 2005



1. Program Data

                     Name:     First Poverty Reduction Support Credit           L/C Number:  IDA-3830-NEP
        Country/Department:    Poverty Reduction & Economic Management               Region: SAR
            Sector/subsector:  Economic Policy
                     Theme:    Growth, Service Delivery, Governance, Social Inclusion




KEY DATES
                                                                   Original              Revised/Actual
           PCD/PR:     10/15/2003                      Effective : N/A                   12/12/2003
          Appraisal:   09/15/2003                         MTR :    N/A                   N/A
          Approval:    11/18/2003                        Closing:  11/01/2004            11/01/2004



                        Borrower/Implementing Agency:   His Majesty's Government of Nepal/Ministry of Finance

                                        Other Partners:




 STAFF                          Current                              At Appraisal
 Vice President:                Praful Patel                         Mieko Nishimizu
 Country Director:              Kenichi Ohashi                       Kenichi Ohashi
 Sector Manager:                Ijaz Nabi                            Ijaz Nabi
 Team Leader at ICR:            Hassan Zaman / Roshan                Hassan Zaman / Roshan Bajracharya
                                Bajracharya

 ICR Primary Authors:           Sailesh Tiwari / Hassan
                                Zaman

2. Principal Performance Ratings

 (HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactory, HL = Highly Likely, L = Likely, UN = Unlikely, HUN = Highly
 Unlikely, HU = Highly Unsatisfactory, H = High, M = Modest, N = Negligible)



                                                     Outcome:        S
                                                Sustainability:      L
                        Institutional Development Impact:            M
                                          Bank Performance:          S
                                      Borrower Performance           S




                                                            QAG (if available)                    ICR
                                    Quality at Entry:
                  Operation at Risk at Any Time:



3. Program Description

    a.       Description of Program

    In light of the conflict with Maoist insurgents since 1996, policymakers in Nepal became acutely aware of
    the need to make public services and economic growth more inclusive in order to arrive at lasting peace.
    This awareness is reflected in Nepal's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and has formed the
    foundation for reform. Nepal's PRSP has four broad pillars, namely, (i) generating equitable and broad
    based growth; (ii) improving service delivery; (iii) promoting social inclusion, and;(iv) improving
    governance. Despite considerable political uncertainty, one of the positive developments in Nepal has
    been the emergence of a broad coalition of reformers comprising of technocrats, intellectuals, business
    leaders and civil society representatives who are pushing forward the change agenda. The PRSP was a
    product of wide national participation, and has provided these reform leaders a platform to operate.

    There have been two interim Governments since PRSC I was approved in November 2003 and on
    February 1 2005, the King took direct control of executive powers by constituting a new Council of
    Ministers under his own chairmanship and imposed a state of emergency. This move is clearly a setback
    for Nepal's image and is bound to have repercussions on areas of the economy where perceptions matter
    ­ tourism, garments exports and foreign investment in general. The new cabinet formed under the
    chairmanship of the King has made a clear commitment to continuing reforms. Most reform-minded,
    high-level officials seem to have been retained and additional reformers promoted to key positions. The
    speed at which these officials can transform the policies endorsed by the government into action remains
    to be seen.




                                                                   2

    b. Description of the Operation

    The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board in November 2003,
    envisioned a series of annual Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) in order to support the
    implementation of Nepal's PRSP. The PRSC I, in the amount of SDR 51 million (equivalent to
    US$70 million), approved in November 2003 was the first in this series.

    The first phase of reforms supported by PRSC I was part of the proposed actions under Nepal's
    PRSP. In order to directly contribute to pro-poor growth, PRSC I reforms emphasized creating fiscal
    space for, and improving the effectiveness of growth-enhancing public investments and measures for
    improving the investment climate. The PRSC program also supported Nepal's track record of
    meaningful reforms in improving service delivery and assisted His Majesty's Government of Nepal
    (HMGN) in developing annual benchmarks consistent with the broad reform objectives of the PRSP.
    Additionally, the fiscal and technical resources necessary to accelerate the devolution of management
    authority of primary schools and health posts to local communities were an integral component of
    PRSC I's support to improve service delivery. The PRSC I also supported Nepal's efforts to promote
    social inclusion by improving the effectiveness of targeted programs, improving access to schooling
    for excluded groups and encouraging civil service diversity. In the area of improving governance, the
    emphasis was on improving the effectiveness of the civil service; strengthening anti-corruption and
    accountability institutions; improving the functioning of key agencies and improving financial
    management and its transparency and procurement practices.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

Reforms to accelerate economic growth
On the macro-economic front, prudent fiscal and monetary policies have helped spur economic growth,
contain inflation and maintain a comfortable level of reserves. As a result, Nepal's PRGF program with
the IMF is on track.

Growth in recent years is not on par with the 5 percent average of the 1990s. The conflict has worsened in
the past years and demand for Nepali exports has weakened in overseas markets. According to
preliminary estimates the economy grew by 3.5 percent in FY 2003/04, compared to 3.1 percent growth
in the preceding fiscal year. Growth in both the agricultural and non-agricultural sectors (3.7 and 3.3
percent respectively) together with strong growth in tourism receipts ­ partly the result of aggressive
marketing by the private sector and Nepal Tourism Board ­ and an unprecedented increase in remittances
have bolstered aggregate demand and helped to partially counteract the adverse impact of the conflict on
growth. CPI inflation (on an annual average basis) declined to 4 percent in FY 2003/04 compared to 4.7
percent the previous fiscal year and continues to remain stable A widening trade gap notwithstanding,
Nepal's current account and reserves remain healthy largely due to strong growth in remittances which
constitute about 12 percent of GDP. Gross official reserves, in January 2005 stood at about $1.8 billion,
or sufficient to cover almost ten and a half months of imports.

Significant progress has been made in streamlining tax policies and improving tax administration and has
resulted in a 10 percent increase in tax revenue between FY 2002/03 and FY 2003/04. Reforms to improve
public expenditure management are deepening. Building on the process of scaling down and prioritizing
development expenditure, HMGN is reorienting public spending priorities towards pro-poor activities. A
move towards program based budgeting is being facilitated through the implementation of sector wide
approaches (SWAp) in education and health. The MTEF has been extended to the recurrent side of the
budget from FY 2004/05. In May 2004, HMGN presented a coherent medium term strategy to harmonize
aid. HMGN has already put the strategy into implementation as the FY 2004/05 budget incorporates a
greater share of previously off-budget aid. Together, these processes have led to a tighter output orientation



                                                     3

and a shift towards pro-poor spending and towards projects that can realistically be implemented given the
current conflict. The PRSC has also altered the fiscal dialogue within HMGN, as the MOF often denies
questionable spending proposals from other ministries by pointing out that one of the key conditions for a
PRSC is the quality of overall expenditures.

Given the scale of conflict in Nepal, one of the most genuine expenditure concerns is the crowding out of
pro-poor expenditures by security spending needs. To some extent the MTEF has proved to be an
effective tool in helping the Ministry of Finance ward off unreasonable demands to increase security
spending. However, in view of the need for enhanced security measures, security spending is around 3.4
percent of GDP though this remains low by both regional and conflict-affected country standards1.
Second, the most recent increase in defense expenditures in the supplementary budget announced in
January 2005 was compensated by an increase in domestic revenues through a 3 percentage point increase
in VAT, in an effort to protect pro-poor expenditures.

Financial sector reforms are progressing satisfactorily on several fronts though recovering dues from
large defaulters is proving difficult. The PRSC I prior action related to the appointment of the foreign
management teams who were given the responsibility for restructuring two of the largest state owned,
loss-making commercial banks. These banks have now generated operating profits in FY2003/04. Staff
right-sizing is underway with the implementation of the first phase of Voluntary Retirement Scheme
(VRS) in January 2004 and the second phase of VRS is ongoing. Concurrent to these measures, the
Banking and Financial Institutions Ordinance (BFI) promulgated in February 2004 unifies five separate
banking laws under a single umbrella act and strengthens the regulatory and oversight functions of Nepal
Rastra Bank (the Central Bank). In September 2004, Article 86 of the Nepal Rastra Bank Act was
amended to further strengthen the Central Bank's ability to deal with troubled banks and paves the way
for the privatization of Nepal Bank Limited. Blacklisting directives strengthened in September 2003 to
penalize willful defaulters were modified in June 2004 to make the provisions of these directives
consistent with limited liability provisions of the Company Law. The pursuit of large defaulters, however,
has been difficult despite the setting up of a Debt Recovery Tribunal as they have been able to capitalize
on loopholes in the legal system.

The establishment of the Roads Board as an autonomous entity to fund road maintenance in Nepal was a
prior action of PRSC I. The Board is financed by a fuel levy and the Roads Board has been receiving the
levy receipts regularly. During the first year of operation in FY 2003/04 the Board was only able to
disburse 53 percent of the money allocated to the Roads Fund. In FY 2004/05 expenditures on road
maintenance are likely to be higher though they have been held up by delays in receiving performance
reports on the first trimester's disbursements. The performance of the Board depends crucially on
strengthening coordination with the body responsible for local and district road maintenance as well as
receiving performance reports on the activities conducted by all road agencies in order to be able to
release funds.

After 18 months of inaction since the March 2003 adjustment in petroleum prices, HMGN finally
accepted that the fiscal costs of inefficiencies in the petroleum sector far outweigh the political dividends
of preserving the status quo. It devised and successfully implemented a three-phase incremental price
adjustment plan spanning five months to fully align petroleum prices with international prices, at a time
when international oil prices were at an unprecedented high. By January 2005 fuel prices in Nepal were
on par with international markets. An automatic pricing formula had been devised and Nepal Oil
Corporation (NOC) had been given the authority to make bi-monthly price revisions based on this


1    Sri Lanka's security spending averaged 5 percent of GDP between 1992 and 2001, a period during which its
own internal conflict was most pronounced and Pakistan's spending on security averaged 3.7 of GDP between 2000
and 2004.


                                                        4

formula and international price movements. However, in what appeared to be a populist move expediently
timed with a slight decline in international crude prices, the post February 1 government lowered the
prices of kerosene and LPG by five and six percent respectively. An on-going audit of NOC carried out
by an international firm is expected to give a better picture of NOC's operational efficiency. The
government plans to open up the petroleum sector to the private sector. In order to create an appropriate
regulatory environment for the private sector, the legislation on "petroleum products sale and
distribution" has been drafted and sent to the Ministry of Law and Justice for approval.

There are two areas in the growth agenda that were process benchmarks for PRSC I but became prior
actions for PRSC II. The first relates to improving trade facilitation which is key for Nepal to remain
competitive in the post Multi Fiber Arrangement (MFA) era. In this regard it was important that the
Birgunj Inland Container Depot (ICD) came into operation through a bilateral agreement between India
and Nepal and the appointment of a private terminal manager. By July 15, 2004 the ICD became
operational and six months into its operations, the container traffic increased from 150 containers a month
to about 800 a month. Additionally, the experience over the six month period also proved that the ICD
reduces the transport and transit cost by 34-42 percent. Following the signing of a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) between HMGN and the Indian Railway Ministry, the ICD will become
operational for bilateral trade from February. Together with administrative reforms in customs such as
improved classification and harmonization, introduction of a customs calendar, extension of ASYCUDA
to three additional custom points, the operationalization of the Birgunj ICD will provide a significant
boost to Nepal's trade facilitation efforts.

The second issue relates to the fact that Nepal's labor laws are one of the most restrictive in the region.
The ongoing tripartite dialogue between government, employers and employees has yielded an agreeable
agenda for making labor laws more flexible embodied in the 19-point program endorsed by the National
Labor Conference of December 2004. While the Government is keen to move forward on this agenda two
outstanding issues remain. First, the design of the proposed "social security" mechanism and its financing
remains to be seen. Second, given the changed political circumstances since February 1, there must be a
greater effort to ensure that the change in law takes place in a consultative manner.

Reforms to improve access to social services

In light of the difficulties with providing services through traditional public sector channels in the conflict
situation, the strategy of HMGN has been to devolve implementation responsibilities to autonomous
community groups while providing the necessary financial and technical support.

The devolution of primary schools to School Management Committees (SMCs) started in 2003 and is
gaining momentum. Currently around 1775 primary schools have been handed over, out of a total of
21000 primary schools. The Eighth Amendment to the Education Act, the Government has suspended
central recruitment of teachers. While it is too early to present a rigorous evaluation of the performance of
schools being managed by SMCs, a rapid appraisal of a sample of 63 such schools conducted in July
2004, shows encouraging signs. Overall enrollment, as well as enrollment of Dalit and other excluded
students has gone up and teacher absenteeism has gone down.

Similarly, devolution of health posts and hospitals to local management groups is also progressing
satisfactorily. So far, 1156 sub-health posts (out of 1424) 19 health posts (out of 265) and 9 primary
health care centers (out of 79) in 25 districts have been transferred to the local bodies. The Government
has also contracted the management of one district hospital to local management. An initial evaluation of
the contracting out experience suggests that the experience has been on balance positive from the users
perspective, but that a number of issues need to be sorted out primarily related to coordination and
awareness of the new roles and responsibilities.


                                                       5

The rural water and sanitation component of the National Water Supply and Sanitation Policy was
revised in 2004. In both the PRSP and the revised policy, there is a clear policy framework that aims to
increase coverage of safe drinking water services from 71 percent to 85 percent and sanitation facilities
from 25 percent to 50 percent of the population by 2007. Currently regulations to grant operational
autonomy to the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Board are in place and the Board's performance
remains satisfactory.

Reforms to improve inclusion

The prior condition of PRSC I in this dimension was the establishment of the Poverty Alleviation Fund
(PAF) as an independent body that channels resources to poor communities. The PAF is now operational,
governed by an autonomous board, and 65 partner organizations in six pilot districts have been identified.
As of mid April 2005, the PAF Board had approved funding of 54 projects covering 168 Village
Development Committees (VDCs) for a total amount of US $0.5 million.

Reforms to improve inclusion are integrated into on-going overall sectoral reforms. For instance the
Ministry of General Administration is developing an affirmative action plan for the civil service that is
expected to be reflected in a revised Civil Service Act. In education, scholarships for Dalit and children
from other marginalized groups are in place and mechanisms for the social audit of these schemes are
being introduced. In the health management committees, there are reserved seats for Dalits and women.

Reforms to improve governance

Substantial progress has been made in taking forward governance reforms which continue to be seen as an
integral component for enhancing the internal capacity of the public sector to deliver services and
generate pro-poor growth. The push towards improving transparency is reflected in progress on
improving accounting and auditing practices. Eight new auditing standards and four accounting standards
have been published by the independent Accounting Standards Board and the Auditing Standards Board
and HMGN is also working on introducing a new chart of accounts. The annual reports of three
constitutional bodies ­ Auditor General, Public Service Commission and Commission for Investigation of
Abuse of Authority (CIAA) ­ that had been withheld for the past three years due to the absence of the
parliament have been released. The reports pave the way for effective reconciliation of overdue revenue
and other unsettled accounts. Additionally, the government has completed necessary consultations with
stakeholders and is in the process of promulgating the new Procurement Act. This Act follows from the
recommendations of Country Procurement Assessment Report completed in 2000 and codifies and
provides the legislative underpinning for a more transparent and competitive public procurement and
tendering process for the procurement of goods, civil works and services based on the UNICTRAL model
law. The Nepal Administrative Staff College is building its capacity in delivering procurement-related
training.

HMGN has taken significant steps to strengthen institutions that tackle corruption at the level of both
enforcement and prevention. The CIAA remains the only constitutionally independent anti-corruption
agency in South Asia and is increasingly being seen as the bulwark against corruption. The Commission's
proactive stance against corruption has resulted in 98 cases being filed in the Special Court against 314
persons including three former ministers and four senior civil servants. In addition there are cases under
consideration against 23 politicians and 12 senior civil servants and departmental action has been
suggested against 38 civil servants. To give continuity to the progress made so far and to institutionalize
the reforms, the government has begun implementing a five year forward looking anti-corruption strategy
promulgated in late 2003. However, the actions of the Royal Commission for Corruption Control
(RCCC), formed after February 1st, also need to be watched very carefully so that a political witch hunt


                                                    6

does not take place in the name of anti-corruption. Moreover, the relationship between the RCCC and the
CIAA remains unclear. Concurrently, the government has also taken several actions to improve the
efficiency and accountability of the civil service. HMGN has made some progress in rationalizing the
process of transfers, tenures and promotions; the number of transfers decreased from 6855 transfers in
1999/2000 to 2967 transfers in 2003/04. This has allowed for greater stability of tenures and policy
coherence. This policy has been underpinned by the development of a comprehensive Personnel
Information System which is now linked to payroll information and enables greater accuracy in civil
service records and allows for the management of postings and transfers.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Political climate. The biggest risk to the implementation of the PRSC program in Nepal comes from the
uncertain political climate. Since the suspension of the parliamentary process in October 2002, the
country has been ruled by four separate governments ­ each with an express mandate to bring the Maoists
to the negotiation table and hold elections and each being replaced by the next due to failure to do just
that. On February 1, 2005 the King assumed executive control over the government for a period of three
years during which he has promised to solve the Maoist problem, eradicate corruption and create a
climate for "true democracy" in Nepal. Though the King has made strong commitments to keep the
reform process on track, there remain at least two major political challenges regarding the implementation
of PRS actions: (i) With the political parties out of the picture, at least temporarily, the moderate "buffer"
between the Maoists and the King is no longer there. As a result, politics is likely to become more
polarized and this may lead to the escalation of violence in the immediate short run; and (ii) in the
absence of a free press and transparent information, monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of
these programs will need to rely even more on independent survey based sources. However, as in the past,
as long as the technocratic force driving key reforms is not crowded out by actions of short term political
expediency, then the reform process can be sustained in Nepal. The fact that the key technocrats are still
in their positions following the events of February 1, 2005 augurs well for Nepal's reform agenda.

Elusive peace. Although the Nepali economy has shown extraordinary resilience to conflict so far, it is
unlikely that this can be sustained. The late 1990s was a period of `low intensity conflict' and growth
averaged around 5%. As the conflict has intensified in the past few years average growth rates have also
declined to around 3-4%. Additionally, the impact of lower growth on revenues coupled with escalating
defense expenditure threatens to squeeze pro-poor spending. The conflict also has negative repercussions
on the delivery of basic services. The devolution of education and health services to local communities is
progressing gradually but the bulk of these schools and health facilities still remain with the public sector.
There are reports of widespread harassment and extortion of local Government officials and school
teachers, and periodic strikes have disrupted the flow of goods and education and health service
schedules. At the same time innovative mechanisms such as mobile health camps have been developed to
ensure that basic services, such as immunization, are provided on a timely basis and the Maoist insurgents
have not in general disrupted these essential services as they recognize their importance to the
community.

Capacity and coordination. The experience with setting up new structures and implementation
modalities, be it in roads, education or health, is that it takes time to get these up and running smoothly.
The discussion above on the Roads Board and on the school and health devolutions illustrate the type of
teething problems faced particularly during the first year or so following these changes. These problems
arise due to capacity constraints, the lack of clarity on roles and responsibilities and the inevitable
adjustments required when a new system is tried out.




                                                       7

6. Bank and Borrower Performance

The overall performance of the Bank is satisfactory. The Bank put together a multi-sectoral team to
support the reforms identified in the PRSP and worked closely with key counterparts to ensure that the
selected prior actions focused on the key issues. The Credit went from identification to negotiation in
eight months and the amount and timing of the disbursement were appropriate for Nepal's fiscal needs.
The Bank closely supervised PRSC I both to provide advice on implementation issues (e.g. on the Roads
Board and school devolution) as well as a way of preparing PRSC II. The supervision combined day to
day dialogue carried out by country office staff, missions every two months on average by the task team
leader and visits by headquarters specialists (e.g. on petroleum sector issues). The Bank also worked
closely with ADB, IMF and DFID in preparing PRSC I and consulted with other donors on a regular
basis. However, consultations and field visits outside Kathmandu were limited, primarily due to the
security situation. The frequency of such discussions would no doubt have improved our knowledge of on
the ground realities.

Borrower performance is satisfactory. First, the PRSP marks the foundation of participatory plan
formulation that is grounded in a medium term budgetary framework. Second, several bold reforms are
taking place in spite of considerable odds. Moreover, the various governments over the past few years
have all endorsed the PRSP and there have been few policy reversals despite the changes at the
ministerial level. One of the main reasons behind the continuity in policy is the fact that key technocrats
in senior positions have remained in place. The one shortcoming with the borrower performance is with
regard to inter-ministerial coordination and clarity on roles and responsibilities. Several reforms involved
fundamental changes in the ways of doing business (e.g. service delivery devolution, Roads Board etc)
and detailed implementation arrangements were not thought through carefully prior to announcing the
policy decision. While `learning by doing' is clearly an important part of the process, future policy
changes that involve large shifts in business processes will require a more careful roll-out plan.


7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

PRSC II was originally planned for September 2004 but its processing has been delayed in order to
adequately assess the impact of the changed political scenario on reform implementation. As discussed
earlier, Nepal's image has suffered tremendously due to the political change and the current state of
emergency. Therefore in addition to the new government's progress on the medium term agenda, future
PRSCs will depend upon the unfolding political scenario.

There remain many important reforms that are relatively non-controversial and can be spearheaded by
committed technocrats. At the same time there are other reforms that can have a clear short run political
cost such as adjusting petroleum prices. There is a limited number of this second type of reforms that any
Government, particularly one which does not have a clear mandate from the people, are prepared to carry
out in any given time period. Hence, another lesson is that it is important to classify prior actions
according to their degree of `political costs/benefits' and decide on which ones and how many to press for
in any given year. Related to this is the fact if technocrat-driven reforms are to be sustained, there has to
be a concerted effort to limit transfers in key secretary-level positions.

The sustainability of reforms supported by the PRSC program hinges critically upon the ability to
communicate the economic rationale behind such reforms. HMGN needs to be encouraged to hold
consultations with relevant stakeholders, including people within the government, to not only inform the
public at large about the pros and cons of reforms but also to solicit alternative strategies that could
potentially maximize social welfare. Simple analytical work in a few crucial reform areas can help
strengthen the resolve for reforms and the communications strategy. The work on the poverty impact of


                                                       8

fuel prices using the latest household survey data, for example, helped assure key decision-makers that
the social costs would be minimal.

Experience with PRSC I also shows that reforms in the judiciary system clearly lag behind reforms on
other fronts. This manifests itself most clearly in the loopholes in the judiciary that some large willful
defaulters have been able to exploit, dampening the progress on reforms in the financial sector. Similarly,
despite CIAA's commendable success on multiple fronts, prosecution of some large corruption cases has
been difficult. These experiences call for some realism, both at the time of program design and
evaluation, in areas where the judiciary is integrally involved.

The implication of the uncertainties in Nepal for the PRSC program is the need to continue to link
releases to up-front actions and not on promises. An appropriate mix of withholding credits, and adjusting
the credit amount while continuing support, can be a reasonable hedge against the risk of slow
implementation. At the same time, the dialogue between the Bank and the borrower needs to be
maintained at all levels during this uncertain period. While successive new governments have each
initiated their own `pet' project or reform area, the Bank needs to be a source of continuity for support to
the reform-minded technocrats who thus far have remained unchanged. The costs of not remaining
engaged would likely be serious as it would leave the reform champions isolated and the momentum for
certain reforms would be lost.




                                                       9

                                           ANNEX I

MATRIX OF SPECIFIC REFORM MEASURES SUPPORTED BY THE PRSC I AND TRIGGER
                                           FOR PRSC II




Objectives  Completed reforms supported by PRSC I                Indicative Triggers for PRSC II

Pro-poor      2002/03 development budget scaled down and          Draft relevant legislation to make labor
growth        prioritized                                         employment and retrenchment laws
                                                                  more flexible
              Adjust retail petroleum prices to cover the cost
              of purchase, transport and distribution in order    Rationalize incentives for irrigation to
              to reverse large petroleum-related losses           promote greater private sector
                                                                  investment in irrigation
              Establish new autonomous Road Board and
              take necessary steps to begin operations of         Transfer fuel levy receipts to Roads
              Road Board                                          Board in a timely manner to ensure
                                                                  regular resources for road maintenance
              Dissolve Boards, introduce new professional
              management teams at the two main commercial         Make the Birgunj ICD operational
              banks, Rastriya Banijya Bank and Nepal Bank         through finalizing the (Nepal-India) rail
              Limited                                             agreement and appointing a terminal
                                                                  management operating company
                                                                  through competitive tender

                                                                  Implement scheme to rationalize excess
                                                                  staff at NRB, NBL and RBB
Service       Transfer 150 public primary schools to School       Transfer 600 primary schools, 100
delivery      Management Committees to demonstrate                secondary schools and 200 lower
              effective commencement of HMGN's school             secondary schools to community
              decentralization strategy                           management

              Hand over 400 Sub-Health Posts (SHP) to             Make Rural Water Board autonomous
              district level Management Committees (MCs)          to improve effectiveness of community
                                                                  based drinking water services

                                                                  Implement Essential Health Care
                                                                  services in 14 districts, prioritizing
                                                                  those with poor health indicators
Social        Enact PAF Act through an ordinance and take         Begin implementation of scholarship
inclusion     necessary steps to establish new independent        package for girls and Dalit children in
              PAF board                                           secondary schools

Governance    Prosecute high-profile corruption cases             Ensure adequate tenure at senior civil
              Revise Financial Administrative regulations in      service level, strengthen capacity of
              line with Country Procurement Assessment            Public Service Commission to oversee
              Report recommendations                              transfers and publicly report transfer
                                                                  data
              Halve the number of civil service transfers from
              the levels prevailing in 2000                       Prepare and enact a new Procurement
                                                                  law and begin implementation




                                                   10

