Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2668-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE
DAR ES SALAM PORT ENGINEERING PROJECT
December 5, 1979
This document kms a resricted distribution and may We used by recipients only in the performance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =  Tanzanian Shilling (TSh.)
US$1.00                       =  TShs. 8.30
1.0 TSh.                      =  US$0.12
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation
to a basket of currencies, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to TShs. 8.30 which is close
to the 1979 average exchange rate.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                   =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)   =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EAC     -  East African Community
EAHC    -  East African Harbours Corporation
MCT     -  Ministry of Communications and Transport
MFP     -  Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOW     -  Ministry of Works
NMC     -  National Milling Corporation
ODA     -  Overseas Development Administration (UK)
TANZAM  -  Tanzania/Zambia
TAZARA  -  Tanzania-Zambia Railway Line
TCSL    -  Tanzania Coastal Shipping Line, Ltd.
TRA     -  Tanzania Harbours Authority
TRC     -  Tanzania Railway Corporation
ZTRS    -  Zambia-Tanzania Road Services
FISCAL YEAR
Government                  : July 1 - June 30
Tanzania Harbours Authority: July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM PORT ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:         United Republic of Tanzania
BENEFICIARY:      Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA)
AMOUNT:           US$2.5 million equivalent
TERMS:            Repayable in 10 years including 2 years of grace and carrying
a service charge of 3/4 of 1% per annum. The credit would
be refinanced under any subsequent credit or loan the Bank
Group may provide to implement a proposed Harbours Project
at Dar es Salaam.
RELENDING TERMS: The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to the Tanzania
Harbours Authority for 10 years including 2 years of grace
at an interest rate of 7.95% per annum. The exchange risk
would be assumed fully by THA.
PROJECT           The proposed credit is intended to finance the detailed
DESCRIPTION:    engineering designs and the preparation and evaluation of
tenders required for Civil Works under a proposed Harbours
Project in order to firm up the cost estimates for the
Project. The engineering credit would finance:
(a) a feasibility study of the location of a bulk grain
silo;
(b) preliminary and final engineering designs, cost
estimates and tender documents for a bulk grain silo
(with a ship unloader, conveyor system and elevator)
and an import storage warehouse;
(c) final engineering designs, cost estimates and tender
documents for (i) deepening and straightening of
the entrance channel, (ii) a container facility,
(iii) the replacement of the petroleum jetty, and
(iv) a harbour tug berth; and
(d) assistance to THA in prequalification of interested
civil works contractors and in the evaluation of civil
works tenders.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The risk involved in the proposed engineering project is
minimal as the same consultants who carried out satis-
factorily the updating study of the port of Dar es
Salaam had been selected for the engineering services
and as no major delay is anticipated.
ESTIMATED COSTS: 1/
Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ million)------
Engineering Consultants:
Home Office               -         1.38     1.38
Overseas (Tanzania)      .30         .21       .51
Sub-Contracts             -          .21       .21
Support, subsistence
and transport          .15         .20      .35
Subtotal             .45        2.00     2.45
Price contingencies            .05        .30       .35
Physical contingencies          -         .20       .20
Total Engineering Cost
Net of Taxes and Duties        .50       2.50      3.00
FINANCING PLAN:  The proposed credit would finance the foreign exchange
component of the engineering services; the remaining US$.5
million in local costs would be financed by THA.
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                                            IDA Fiscal Year
1980      1981      1982
-----(US$ million)-----
Annual                           .4        1.9       .2
Cumulative                       .4       2.3       2.5
RATE OF RETURN:        Not applicable
1/   The proj,ect is exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE DAR ES SALAAM PORT ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit of US$2.5 million equivalent to the United Republic of Tanzania to
help finance the detailed engineering designs and the preparation and evalua-
tion of tenders for civil works required for a proposed Harbours Project.
The credit would carry a service charge of 3/4 of 1% per annum and would
be repayable in 10 years including 2 years of grace. The proceeds of the
credit would be onlent to the Tanzania Harbours Authority under a subsidiary
loan agreement which would be on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association including an interest rate of 7.95% per annum and repayment in
10 years including 2 years of grace. The exchange risk would be assumed fully
by THA. The Credit would be refinanced under any subsequent credit or loan
the Bank Group may provide to implement a proposed Harbours Project at Dar es
Salaam.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A new Country Economic Memorandum will be issued later in this fiscal year.
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 30 least developed countries in the world
with a per capita income in 1978 of US$230. The economy is still heavily
dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture
and approximately 50% of GDP and two-thirds of total exports are derived from
agricultural production. The industrial sector is still small, producing
about 10% of GDP, approximately the same percentage as 11 years ago. The
service sector produces about 40% of GDP. Overall population density is
low, though a few areas are considered overpopulated. Population growth is
estimated at 3.0% per annum with both fertility and mortality at relatively
high levels.
6
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, transportation, and wholesale trade
are under state control. There is extensive state intervention in economic
activity, including import licensing, foreign exchange controls, price control,
the reservation of some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and
detailed Government investment planning. The second major feature of
Tanzania's development strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development
and social programs to benefit the poor and reduce inequalities in income
distribution. This is reflected in ambitious programs for the provision
of rural water supplies and health services and in the decision to achieve
universal entry into primary education beginning in 1977.



-2-
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1968-78 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.8%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita. While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, the economy
has recovered well with annual growth at 5 to 6% for 1976 through 1978.
During this decade the service sector grew the fastest - 6.3% p.a., followed
by the industrial sector - 4.0% p.a. and then agriculture - 3.9% p.a.
6.        The Government has a good record of domestic resource mobilization.
Between 1967-68 and 1977-78 the share of recurrent revenues rose from 15.1%
to 19.3% of GDP. However, most of this increase occurred before 1975-1976.
Since then revenue has been increasing at a rate below the GDP growth rate
(in 1974/75 revenue was 22% of GDP). This increase was achieved through a
combination of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75,
the rate of national savings has also been high: gross national savings
fluctuated at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960s through 1973, fell
to half that level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis
level in 1976 and 1977. These are high levels of savings for a country at
Tanzania's income level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of a more equitable income distribution. Between 1969 and 1975
the average urban rural gap remained approximately constant, halting the trend
towards an increasing gap in the early 1960s. It is likely that the gap has
been slightly reduced since 1976 due to continued recovery of agricultural
production and higher producer prices. However, regional income differentials
in rural areas have tended to widen slightly. Within the formal urban sector
there has been a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income differential
between the highest-paid government officials and minimum wage earners from 50
to 1 in 1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975. However, a large informal sector has emerged
comprising large numbers of unemployed and underemployed workers with earnings
significantly below the official urban minimum wage. The policies of wage
restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975 should have a bene-
ficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribution, and the basic
needs oriented programs in rural water and health and in universal primary
education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a significant redirection in
public expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite this impressive overall record of development, some pro-
blems have begun to manifest themselves in recent years.  Exports have failed
to keep pace with the growth of the rest of the economy. The overall export
index is down almost one-third since 1966. This poor performance in exports
is due to the poor growth rate of agricultural cash crops. While agricul-
tural output has increased impressively in recent years (10.9% in 1976 and
8.2% in 1977), most of this growth has been in the hard-to-measure subsistence
sector, while the monetary sector has lagged well behind. Over the last decade
subsistence growth has averaged 5.1% per annum while monetary sector growth



has been only 2.3% per annum. This has led to a severe retardation of growth
of exports of agricultural products. This failure of export growth has led to
increasing dependency on foreign loans and grants to pay for imports.
9.        A second problem that is becoming more serious is the deceleration
of the growth of domestic revenues. While still at a high ratio to GDP
compared to most other developing countries, government revenues have been
growing more slowly than GDP in recent years. At the same time recurrent
expenditures have been higher than budgeted. As a result, public sector
savings have been well below expectations and the Government has had to rely
more upon borrowing (both foreign and local) and external aid for financing
development than was planned.
Recent Economic Developments
10.       During 1975-77 the Government followed a program agreed to at the
time of the first Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. This program
included redirecting investment to more productive sectors, higher agricul-
tural producer prices, constraints on wages and salaries, price and tax
increases to restrain consumption and tight control of imports. These poli-
cies, aided by the boom in coffee prices, succeeded in keeping government
spending under control with low levels of borrowing from the banking system
and led to a balance of payments surplus of almost US$150 million in 1977.
Food production increased and government stocks of most foodgrains reached
record levels.  In 1978 the Government was able to ease import restrictions
and begin to import the spares and raw materials needed by industry, which
had been running below capacity.
11.       Unfortunately the price of coffee, Tanzania's major export, began to
fall at the same time that imports were liberalized. Also, in October, 1978
war broke out with Uganda and the resulting imports of military equipment and
domestic mobilization put an increasing strain on the balance of payments
and the domestic budget. Consequently the current account showed a deficit
of more than US$450 million in 1978 and the overall balance of payments was
almost US$300 million in deficit. As a result, reserves were drawn down and
the country was forced to delay payment of about US$60 million in import bills.
12.       The situation has deteriorated further in 1979 and the Government's
economic policies are facing a major challenge. The overall balance of
payments is expected to be almost US$200 million in deficit and as a result
arrears are expected to be about US$200 million by the end of the year. At
the same time the domestic budget deficit has ballooned.  The recurrent budget
is expected to show a deficit of almost 1 billion shillings for 1978/79 and
government borrowing from the banking system is expected to be more than 3
billion shillings, a major component in an almost 35% increase in the money
supply. Import licenses have been reduced by almost 40% from the 1978 level
in real terms (following a 10% devaluation in January of 1979). The Government
has been able to arrange for almost US$75 million in funds from the IMF from
its first credit tranche, the Trust Fund and the Export Compensatory Fund, but
negotiations for further assistance from the IMF have so far been unsuccessful.
The 1979/80 budget calls for a reduction in the level of recurrent expenditure



-4-
and borrowing from the banking system of 1.67 billion shillings, but through
the first quarter of this fiscal year borrowing was already 1.4 billion
shillings. A major problem is lack of budgetary discipline as spending
agencies have been able to exceed their budgetary allocations with the Treasury
continuing to honor their checks. The Government urgently needs to develop a
comprehensive program to deal with the current crisis, as it did in 1974. The
Bank has offered to help the Government in developing such a program.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance
on concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid
has been given to Tanzania and the Government's reluctance in the past to use
higher cost commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service
ratio has historically been low (less than 10%). However, the recent balance
of payments crisis has forced the Government to utilize such loans recently
and as a result the debt service ratio is estimated at 12% in 1979 and 15% in
1980. We expect it will remain in the range of 15-20% throughout the 1980's.
In 1978 the Bank held 12% of Tanzania's external debt (for the Bank Group, it
was 28%) and received 37% of Tanzania's debt service (40% for the Bank Group).
We are projecting this debt service share to fall to about 21% in 1980 and to
remain around 25% for the coming decade.
14.       Tanzania's development will require resources in excess of domestic
savings and external capital made available solely to finance the foreign
exchange costs of projects. Given the Government's efforts to mobilize
domestic resources and in view of our support for its increased emphasis
on local cost intensive rural investments, the Bank Group will continue to
finance a high proportion of total costs including, in appropriate cases, a
portion of local costs.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has now prepared reports to
the Partner States on the results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corpora-
tions and the General Services, and the methodology adopted in appraising the
assets and liabilities. The next phase of the mediator's work will be to
make recommendations on the allocation of these assets and liabilities. The
mediator's report and recommendations on the future structure of the East
African Development Bank (EADB) have been accepted in principle by the Partner
States and the revised EADB Charter along with the Treaty to enact the new
Charter have been submitted to the three Governments for signature.
16.       The de facto breakup of the Community has had some impact on
Tanzania's budget as new national entities take over the services formerly
provided by the EAC Corporations. A major development related to the EAC
difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major
trading partner of Tanzania and considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and developing alternative outlets
for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA 1/
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 38 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, of
which two on Third Window terms, amounting to US$747.0 million have so
far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made
to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million in
soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June
8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and Ik'C investments to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations as of September 30, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       To support Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group lend-
ing operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. While up to the end of FY 1972 Bank Group operations
were directed mainly to infrastructure, the overwhelming majority of the
operations approved since FY73 have been for directly productive projects.
Furthermore, a number of recent Bank Group supported infrastructure projects
have been closely linked with specific productive activities. For example,
the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in January 1976,
will support the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and
1386-TA) and the Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. 1607-TA and Credit Noe
833-TA). Directly productive projects recently approved include the Second
Cashewnut Development Project (Credit No. 801-TA), the Tobacco Handling
Project (Credit No. 802-TA), the Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project
(Credit No. 803-TA), the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Loan No. 1650-TA and
Credit No. 875-TA) and the Tanganyika Development Finance Company Limited
(TDFL) Project (Loan No. 1745-TA). In addition, a Tourism Rehabilitation
Project (Credit No. 860-TA), a Sixth Education Project (Credit No. 861-TA)
and a Fifth Highway Project (Credit No. 876-TA) were approved by the Board
in FY79. A fourth line of credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank (Loan No.
1750-TA) was also approved on July 24, 1979.  Projects which have been ap-
praised include a Second Urban Water Supply Project, a line of credit to
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB), a Pyrethrum Project, a Coconut
Project, a Tea Processing Project, an Education Project and a Foodgrain
Storage and Milling Project. A rural development project in Mara, a small
scale industries project, an urban project, a harbours project, a railway
project, and an agricultural services project are also under preparation.
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) Projected dated July 12, 1979.



19.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. It is clear in
retrospect that both the Bank Group and Tanzania have been optimistic re-
garding Tanzania's absorptive capacity. The causes of the difficulties in
implementation are varied.  Some stem from the scarcity of suitably trained
and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in identifying agronomic
input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder farmers while others
result from the strains associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on
poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent and drastic ad-
ministrative changes, which -- though potentially the source of long-term
benefits -- have certainly disrupted orderly execution of projects and made
parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. Also, the Uganda war (para. 11)
has had some impact on project implementation. In the early stages of the
war, there was some diversion of equipment and manpower; however these problems
have largely been solved. The problem over the medium term are the financial
implications of the war. If general economic problems resulting from the war
are not resolved, the availability of adequate local funds could become a
major constraint to implementation. In general, difficulties have been most
severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our
lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector, these problems
have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast, the
"modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the Tanzania Investment
Bank, Mwanza Textile, Morogoro Industrial Estate and Cashewnut Processing
Projects, for example, are proceeding well.
20.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on
Bank Group procurement with the relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
11 Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank Group
financed projects in agriculture and rural development. The need to establish
a close and continuous working level dialogue between responsible Tanzanian
officials and Bank Group staff on implementation problems was one of the prime
reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two professionals in
October 1976. In February 1977 a regular Government/Bank Group review of
project implementation was established. Monthly discussions on Bank Group
program chaired by the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP) and attended by
Bank Group staff and officials from implementing agencies deal in detail with
individual problem projects and problems which are affecting project imple-
mentation across a number of sectors. As a result of these efforts, there has
been a noticeable improvement in project implementation.  Actions agreed to
during the reviews have been completed relatively fast and coordination and
communication between the MFP and the various ministries and agencies res-
ponsible for project implementation has improved markedly.



21.       The Government has become increasingly conscious of the importance
of effective implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project
implementation review system, MFP has set up a unit to oversee project per-
formance. Furthermore, there have been more consistent responses to Bank
suggestions and a willingness to openly discuss project problems raised by
Bank Staff. As a consequence, the disbursement records of Bank Group financed
projects have improved somewhat over the last two years, and a recent analysis
indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is about equal to the
Bank-wide average. While there is still a potential for further significant
improvements, the Government is implementing its investment program, including
Bank Group and other foreign aided projects, more effectively than in the
past.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
22.       Tanzania, with a population of about 17 million, has a land area of
about 945,000 sq km. Less than 10% of the population lives in towns, but the
urban population is increasing much faster than the national population growth
rate (para. 3). Poor road conditions and lack of adequate transport seriously
constrain the country's economic growth, especially the marketing of agricul-
tural products and the delivery of agricultural inputs. To facilitate rural
development and to improve overall efficiency, the Government in 1972 decen-
tralized various administrative activities, giving the country's 25 adminis-
trative regions (20 on the mainland) substantial power to control the planning
and budgeting of resources in their respective jurisdictions. While the
development of adequate transport services is critical to the success of the
regional efforts only limited progress has been made in improving the transport
infrastructure, reflecting, among other things, severe staff constraints and
limited financial resources.
The Transport System
23.       Tanzania's transport system comprises roads (about 45,000 km), two
railway systems (totalling 3,570 km of track), three main ocean ports and
some minor ocean and lake ports, two international airports and over 50
smaller airfields. A pipeline conveys crude oil between Dar es Salaam and
Zambia; in addition, one of the railways, and a major road, were built
mainly to carry Zambian traffic. Since the collapse of the East African
Community (EAC) in 1977, Tanzania has become wholly responsible for management
of its transport system.
24.       Highways.  Of the total road network in Tanzania only 7% is paved;
93% is gravel or earth. In addition, as only about 900 km of the gravel roads
have been engineered, most of the gravel or earth roads typically become
impassable during the wet season. Roads classified as trunk roads (9,316 km)
link the mainland's 20 regional capitals and connect Tanzania with neighboring
countries; they vary in standard from two-lane paved roads to unimproved earth



- 8 -
tracks. Roads classified as secondary roads (7,694 km) link other centers
of economic activity with the trunk road network while those classified as
regional and district roads (about 28,000 km) form the balance of the system.
The 9,316 km trunk road system includes about 2,100 km of secondary roads and
regional roads recently reclassified to trunk roads.
25.       Railways.  Two railway systems serve Tanzania:  The Tanzania
Railway Corporation (TRC) and the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA).
TRC was established as a corporate entity in 1977 to operate that part of the
East African Railway Corporation (EARC) located within Tanzanian territory.
Although not all the issues involved in this transfer have been resolved,
TRC now manages and operates the 2,600 km, 1.0 m gauge railway in central
and northern Tanzania. Linking Dar es Salaam and Tanga with Arusha, Mwanza,
Dodoma, Tabora and Kigoma, the TRC railway is particularly important for
long-distance transport internally as well as for transit traffic to and from
some of its neighbors, particularly Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire. TRC's opera-
tions and services are presently unsatisfactory because of low availability
of locomotives and wagons and lack of workshop facilities, as well as the
deteriorated condition of equipment and track. Large investments are required
and the Canadian Government along with a number of other bilateral agencies
have agreed to provide substantial financial assistance. Also, a project is
being prepared for possible Bank Group financing (para. 18).
26.       TAZARA, financed by the Peoples Republic of China and owned jointly
by Tanzania and Zambia, commenced operations in 1976 and consists of 1.067 m
gauge track extending 970 km from Dar es Salaam to the Zambian border and
continuing another 890 km into Zambia. The principal traffic at present is,
and for some years will continue to be, Zambian exports of copper and Zambian
imports. Future growth of Tanzanian traffic on the line will depend on
development of the country's southern regions. TAZARA operations have
experienced increasing difficulties; maintenance of locomotives, turn-around
time of wagons, and coordination with the port of Dar es Salaam are presently
poor. The Government is currently making efforts to improve this situation.
In addition a number of bridges in Zambian territory have recently been
destroyed in military actions related to the civil war in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia;
these are now being repaired.
27.       Ports.  Dar es Salaam is Tanzania's principal sea port, Tanga
and Mtwara are the other major ports. Dar es Salaam is located in a natural
harbour on the East African seaboard of the Indian Ocean. In addition to
handling the bulk of Tanzania's traffic, this port has traditionally handled
transit traffic for the eastern part of Zaire, and the landlocked countries
of Burundi and Rwanda. In recent years it has also become a major port for
Zambia's seaborne imports and exports, particularly since the opening of
TAZARA in 1976.
28.       Shipping.  The Tanzania Coastal Shipping Line, Ltd. (TCSL), estab-
lished in 1971, is a parastatal corporation with a monopoly of carrying
freight and passengers between various coastal and island ports south of Dar
es Salaam. Traffic between Dar es Salaam, Mtwara and Lindi is highly seasonal
with heavy traffic in the rainy season when alternative road transport is
unreliable, circuitous, and costly. Until an improved coastal road including



- 9 -
a costly bridge over the Rufiji River can be built (which appears unlikely for
many years), the TCSL will play an important role in transport to and from
southeastern Tanzania.
29.       Some transport services are also provided by TRC on Lake Victoria
between Mwanza, Bukoba and Musoma ports. On Lake Tanganyika, Burundi-owned
ships transport considerable cargo-between Bujumbura and Kigoma, the western
terminus of TRC.
30.       Air Transport.  With its vast distances, difficult terrain and
limited road network, domestic air service is particularly important in
Tanzania. Of the more than 50 designated airfields, only a few are built
to standards high enough to permit operation of jet aircraft; many of the
remainder are dirt and grass strips used only occasionally. International
airports are located in Dar es Salaam and Kilimanjaro; Mtwara, Tabora, Dodoma,
Mwanza and Zanzibar also have paved runways. The national air transport
company, Air Tanzania, was established in 1977 following termination of
operations of the East African Airways Corporation to service a wide network
of domestic routes. Using Fokker E-27 aircraft, Twin-Otters and two Boeing
737s, the airline provides services to major centers within the country and
limited services between Tanzania and certain neighboring countries. Air
Tanzania performance has improved markedly during this year. No regular
air service is available between Tanzania and Kenya; all road, rail and air
traffic between the two countries was suspended in February 1977 (para. 16
above).
31.       Pipeline.  A pipeline financed by the Italian Government and
operated by the TANZAM Oil Pipeline Company was completed in 1968 from Dar
es Salaam to Ndola in Zambia. Initially the 1,705 km line (900 km in Tanzania)
of 20.3 cm pipe carried gasoline to Zambia, but following construction of a
refinery at Ndola, the line now transports crude oil. Its design capacity
exceeds 700,000 tons p.a., and traffic flow has generally been at about that
level.
Transport Planning and Coordination
32.       The Ministry of Works (MOW) is responsible for planning major
highway investments while the Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT)
oversees planning for other transport modes. The regional authorities have
responsibility for planning, implementing and maintaining local roads. MFP
has the principal responsibility for financing transport investments and
preparing investment programs based on proposals from MOW, MCT, and the
regions (after preliminary review by the Office of the Prime Minister). As
transport planning capability is weak in all the ministries involved and since
data for planning are not systematically collected, little meaningful transport
planning has taken place in Tanzania. To begin to address this problem, Bank
Group staff have been advising both MCT and MOW on preparation of a project-
specific national transport plan which would define priorities and programs
for investments in the sector. Thus far, neither Ministry has been able to
commit significant resources to this exercise and MCT is recommending that a
National Transport Study covering all modes of transport should be undertaken
by consultants with assistance from the Bank Group. This proposal is now
being reviewed by the Bank.



- 10 -
33.       Coordination of investments within the transport sector is weak,
largely because of the lack of planning capability. A major cause of this
problem was the dissolution of the East African Community. During its
existence, air transport, ports, and a portion of the rail system operated
under cooperative statutory institutions of the Community, with planning and
coordination at the Community level. Since these transport elements are now
operating under new agencies established by the Tanzania Government, there
have been significant problems in reestablishing the necessary management and
operational systems. While these problems have not led to serious misinvest-
ments, there is a growing need to give transport investment coordination more
attention in view of Tanzania's overall resource constraints and the high
costs of the priority investments required in transport services. Coordina-
tion of investments among transport and non-transport sectors has also been
limited. For example, in the high potential agriculture areas in south-
western Tanzania the benefits realized by Tanzania from heavy transport
investments in the TANZAM corridor have been limited. The Government is now
giving priority to the development of this area.
Previous Bank Group Lending in Transport
34.       The Bank Group has supported extensively the development of the
transport sector in Tanzania. At the national level, investments have been
made in highways and trucking. Highway lending includes five projects
totalling $76.7 million: the first project financed construction of a total
of 860 km of roads, the second project assisted in the construction of the
TANZAM Highway, and the third project focused on road construction in Southern
Tanzania and betterment of feeder roads. All were completed successfully.
The fourth and fifth projects are still under implementation and are aimed at
improving trunk road maintenance capacity throughout the country. The Trucking
Project, which is also under implementation, is directed at the development of
efficient trucking services through direct investment in a number of public
trucking companies, training and the financing of increased spare parts
inventories. In addition, a number of rural development and agricultural
projects include road construction components.
35.       Bank Group assistance to Tanzania for ports and railways was provided
in the past within the framework of the East African Community. Loans amount-
ing to US$166 million were made to the East African Railways and Harbours
Administration and its successors the East African Railways Corporation (EARC)
and East African Harbours Corporation (EAHC); these projects benefitted all
three Partner States. In Tanzania, the projects have assisted the develop-
ment of EARC's northern and central lines and financed a large portion of the
development of Dar es Salaam Port. The specific investments in harbours
include four projects: Loan 110-EA (1955 - US$24.0 million) was made to the
East African High Commission to meet part of the costs to be incurred during
1954-57 by the East African Railways and Harbours Administration in its
development program. Among other things, this loan financed the completion of
deep-water berths at Mombasa and at Dar es Salaam and a new lighterage wharf
at Tanga.  The project works were satisfactorily completed in 1957.  Loan
428-EA (1965 - US$38.0 million) was made to the East African Common Services



- 11 -
Authority to finance part of the foreign exchange cost of the development
program of the East African Railways and Harbours Administration during
1965-67. This loan helped finance completion of two new deep-water berths at
Mombasa and one new deep-water berth at Dar es Salaam. The project works were
successfully completed in 1971. Loan 638-EA (1969 - US$35.0 million) was made
to the East African Harbours Corporation to help finance its 1969-72 develop-
ment program, specifically the construction of two new deep-water berths and
a dry bulk wharf at Mombasa, as well as the completion and/or construction of
five new deep-water berths and a single buoy tanker terminal at Dar es Salaam,
in addition to modernization of existing facilities at both ports. While this
project was completed in 1977, both this loan and the subsequent Loan No.
865-EA were affected by the political problems which the EAC experienced
throughout the seventies. Loan 865-EA (1972 - US$26.5 million) was made to
the East African Harbours Corporation to help finance its 1972-76 development
program, specifically the construction of three deep-water berths and modern-
ization at Dar es Salaam, the construction of back-of-port facilities and a
tug berth, and modernization of other facilities at Mombasa, and improvement
of lighterage facilities at Tanga. The physical implementation of this
Project was satisfactorily completed in 1978 and despite some delay in con-
struction, the final costs remained within acceptable limits.
Bank Group Strategy in the Ports Subsector
36.       The Bank Group's strategy in the ports subsector is to support the
Government's program for its development in order to ensure that Tanzania as
well as landlocked neighboring countries have an efficient outlet to the sea.
The Bank Group recognizes the importance of Dar es Salaam Port in Tanzania's
transport system and its vital role as a regional port serving Zambia, Zaire,
Burundi and Rwanda. Bank Group involvement is intended to ensure that Dar es
Salaam Port continues to keep abreast of technical trends and improves its
efficiency in order to keep up with the growth of shipping, container traffic,
and bulk grain shipments. To achieve this, the Bank Group is focusing on
ensuring that THA's requirements for both technical assistance and the devel-
opment of Tanzanian personnel will be met. While THA has employed many of the
staff of the former EAHC (which had a reputation of an efficient organization
in the East African context), it is a new organization which will require time
to develop and grow.
PART IV - THE ENGINEERING PROJECT
37.       The Port of Dar es Salaam is the key link in the Tanzanian transport
system and while traffic has increased rapidly over the past 4 to 5 years
(particularly after Zambia closed its borders to the south), virtually no
major investments have been made since the Third Harbours Project in 1972.
This has not reflected a lack of planning or preparation (as noted below,
the developments necessary are well studied) but rather the general diffi-
culties that were faced by all of the EAC's Corporations in the mid seventies.
The uncertainties regarding the future of the EAC made financing further



- 12 -
investments impossible. The Port of Dar es Salaam, therefore, faces a con-
siderable backlog of high priority investment. When the organizational issues
were resolved after the collapse of the EAC (para. 15) by forming a national
port authority, THA, the Government of Tanzania in March 1978, approached the
Bank Group for financing of the most urgent investments. Two preparation
missions were mounted in 1978 and an appraisal mission visited Tanzania in
April 1979.  As noted below (see para. 39), and in view of the nature of the
work involved, it was decided to proceed initially with an engineering credit.
Negotiations of the engineering credit were held in Dar es Salaam in October
1979; the Tanzanian delegation included representatives of the Ministry of
Finance and Planning, the Ministry of Communication and Transport, the Tanzania
Harbours Authority, and the Attorney General's Chambers. A Credit and Project
Summary is at the front of this report and a supplementary project data sheet
is at Annex III.
Background
38.       As one element directed at ensuring the continued orderly develop-
ment of the Port of Dar es Salaam, a development study (financed by the UNDP
with the Bank as executing agency) was carried out in 1973-74 by Bertlin and
Partners (UK). This resulted in a long-term master plan for port development
including a detailed investment program. As a follow-up to this master plan
a preliminary design effort was undertaken in 1976-77 to investigate further
the various proposed facilities, to evaluate engineering alternatives, and to
establish preliminary cost estimates for the principal components. By late
1977, it became increasingly apparent that the detailed investment program
had to be updated to ensure adequate consideration of the growth in container
traffic, of bulk grain handling requirements, and the increasing need for
warehousing for imports. This updating, including a review of traffic pro-
jections, was initiated in October 1978 and carried out by the consultants
Bertlin and Partners (UK) and was financed by the United Kingdom. It was
completed in March 1979 and concluded that further development of the Port of
Dar es Salaam had high priority and that facilities for handling bulk grain,
container traffic, and warehousing for imports are justified and should be
included; these components had not been included in the original master plan.
39.       In April 1979, an appraisal mission reviewed the harbours project
proposed in the updating study for financing. While the mission concluded
that all the investment proposals were economically, financially and tech-
nically viable, it was not able to finalize project costs. The principal
uncertainty involves dredging, which constitutes a major portion of project
costs. To achieve a sufficient degree of accuracy in cost estimates in order
to ensure adequate financing for the proposed Harbours Project, it was there-
fore considered desirable to postpone completion of the appraisal of this
project until detailed designs have been completed and bids for the dredging
contract have been received. Therefore, the appraisal mission recommended an
engineering credit to finance the additional work required. Furthermore, as
preliminary engineering is not available for either the bulk grain-handling
facilities or the import warehouses, these would also be undertaken under the
engineering credit.



- 13 -
Dar es Salaam Port
40.       Until 1956 Dar es Salaam was a lighterage port.  In that year three
berths were completed; eight others have been added since then. In 1958
the petroleum jetty within the harbour was commissioned, and in 1973 the
single buoy mooring facility was added outside the harbour. Traffic consists
of vessels covering a spectrum from dhows and coasters to modern freighters and
tankers. Presently, few specialized ships (dry bulk carriers, container
ships, etc.) call at Dar es Salaam due to lack of appropriate facilities and
as yet marginal traffic for these specialized carriers. However, the signif-
icant growth in worldwide specialized shipping must be reflected in considering
the long term needs for developing the port. While the port was constructed
as a traditional rail-served facility, trucks are playing an ever increasing
role in transport to and from the port. Break bulk cargo is handled con-
ventionally with a combination of ships! gear, quay cranes, tractors, trailers,
forklifts and yard cranes. Availability of this equipment is insufficient
due to inadequate maintenance. Stevedores lack adequate handling
equipment and gear for use aboard ships, and there is a shortage of properly
trained supervisors. The proposed Harbours Project will assist THA's develop-
ment as an organization through technical assistance and training,as well as
address its equipment needs for Dar es Salaam.
41.       Facilities.  The harbour is rather narrow with limited ship maneuver-
ing room. The entrance channel is a natural water fairway, some 3.5 km in
length dredged in 1953 to provide a minimum water depth of 7.6 m at low water.
The present channel alignment contains three bends in the configuration of
an "S" curve. These bends, together with the limited water depth, impose
severe restrictions on ship movements in and out of the inner harbour.
Ships drawing in excess of 7 m must enter and depart on the tides and arrival
or departure at night is not possible with large ships. Addressing these
constraints will be a major aim of the proposed Harbours Project.
42.       The main cargo handling facilities are situated on the east side of
the harbour, consisting of approximately 600 m of lighter wharf (minimum depth
2.4 m) and 11 general cargo alongside berths with a total length of 2,013 m.
There are eight stream berths for deep sea vessels within the inner harbour
for working of ships to lighters. There is a petroleum jetty in the inner
harbour adjacent to and south of the general cargo berths; and a single buoy
mooring terminal at Mjimwema Bay outside the harbour for large tankers.
General cargo berths and their stacking areas are served by travelling portal
cranes.  The lighterage wharf is served by portal cranes and mobil cranes.
The reorganization of the cargo handling facilities to increase the efficiency
of the port will be a second major objective of the proposed Harbours Project.
43.       The Port of Dar es Salaam has few facilities for handling special
commodities. Molasses and edible oils are handled over one berth through embed-
ded pipelines. Bulk grain is handled inefficiently over general cargo berths,
using vacuvators discharging into hoppers from where it is trucked to either the



- 14 -
Tanzania National Milling Corporation (NMC) silo, or to the TAZARA rail depot
for onward shipment. As there are no special facilities for the growing
container traffic, containers are handled over all berths. While recently
containers in transit have been segregated into two areas for better manage-
ment, they continue to be loaded and offloaded from ships at all berths,
contributing to traffic disruption as well as congestion. It is anticipated
that bulk grain handling facilities and container handling facilities will be
included in the proposed Harbors Project.
44.       Organization, Management and Operation.  The Port of Dar es Salaam
was formerly one of the two principal ports (the other being Mombasa) of the
East African Harbours Corporation (EAHC). Upon the collapse of the EAHC, the
Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA) was created by legislation in July 1977
to establish, administer and operate a system of harbours to serve the needs
of Tanzania. THA is headed by a full-time Chairman and a Board of Directors,
all appointed by the President, whose duty is to "carry out the functions and
manage the business and affairs of the Authority." MCT is responsible for the
''general direction and control of the Authority." The chief executive officer
of the Authority, who is also a member of the Board, is the General Manager
who is responsible for the day-to-day operations. The principal subordinate
element of the THA is the Port of Dar es Salaam, headed by the Port Manager.
The port management organization is composed of two principal elements (opera-
tions and services), each headed by an assistant manager. Under operations
are included the operations manager, commercial manager, harbour master, and
port engineer; under services are included managers for supplies, finance,
and personnel, and a medical officer. The financial results of the ports
operation are at present satisfactory. THA's tariff structure is sound and
its earnings have been sufficient to cover the cost of its operations includ-
ing current debt service obligations. However, with the launching of the
proposed Harbours Project, it will have to meet the local currency portion of
some TSh. 380 million of the proposed project costs over a period of about
four years. It will be able to do so only if the current rate of internal
generation of cash is increased through improved efficiency and higher tariffs.
To achieve this, THA, by June 30, 1980, will review its tariff levels to
determine appropriate changes which should be made in tariff levels to ensure
coverage of the economic cost of its operations, including the financing of
the local currency costs of its future investments. The findings and recom-
mendations of this review will be furnished to the Association for its review
and comment (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement). This issue will be
further addressed during processing of the proposed Harbours Project.
45.       Past and Present Traffic.  There has been a steady growth in the
traffic of Dar es Salaam Port, even though it is subject to fluctuations due
to changing economic conditions in the countries which it serves, 1/ political
conditions in the region, and disruptions or deterioration in the regional
land transport systems - rail and highway.
1/   Tanzania, Zambia, Burundi, Rwanda, Zaire, and to some extent, Uganda.



- 15 -
Dar es Salaam Port Traffic
(Thousand Tons)
1974     1975      1976      1977     1978
General Cargo
Exports                     625       639       987      955      1,049
Imports                     761       978    1,034    1,190       1,378
Total                1,386    1,617    2,021    2,145        2,427
Oil
Exports                     249 1/   196 1/   249 1/   217 1/   114 2/
Imports                   1,698    1,772    1,818    1,892    1,736
Total                1,947    1,968    2,067    2,109    1,850
1/   Including bunkering.
2/   Not including bunkering.
Description of the Engineering Credit and a Proposed Harbours Project
46.       Because of the substantial uncertainties surrounding the cost
estimates for the civil works involved in the proposed Harbours Project, a
two-phased approach to financing is proposed. The first phase would involve
an engineering credit to cover detailed engineering design and preparation of
tender documents for the anticipated port investment including a feasibility
study of the location of a bulk grain silo. The civil works for which
detailed design and preparation of tender documents is proposed include:
straightening and deepening the entrance channel; a container facility; a
petroleum jetty; a tug berth; a grain silo with ship unloader, conveyor system
and elevator; and an import storage warehouse. This would require topographic
and hydrographic surveys; sub-surface exploration (drilling); civil, elec-
trical, and mechanical engineering; architectural services; drafting; and
support costs for the effort (transportation, accommodations, subsistence,
printing, communications, overhead, etc.). An estimated 300 man-months of
engineering effort, at a man-month cost of about US$6,500 (including the
man-month rate, international travel and subsistence) will be required.
47.       The second phase would cover the financing of the proposed Harbours
Project.  This would consist of the items for which design work is proposed
as well as technical assistance and training components and equipment for
the Port of Dar es Salaam. As noted above (para 37), an initial appraisal
mission visited Tanzania in April 1979; a post appraisal mission would be
expected to finalize an investment proposal after the engineering services
have been completed. However, in order to confirm that the estimated civil



- 16 -
works costs are accurate, it is expected that the bids for that item will be
received before presentation of the proposed Harbours Project to the Executive
Directors. It is not anticipated that any contract will be signed prior to
consideration of the proposed Harbours Project by the Executive Directors.
48.       It is proposed that the engineering credit would be refinanced under
any subsequent credit or loan provided by the Bank Group for the proposed
Harbours Project. While other alternatives for financing the engineering
credit were considered, they were rejected because the prospective funds were
inadequate to meet the cost of the engineering services and would have unduly
delayed their completion.
Implementation of the Engineering Credit
49.       Detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents will be
undertaken by Bertlin and Partners (UK) (para. 38), the consultants selected
by the Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA) and accepted by the Association
(Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement). Copies of documents pre-
pared by the consultants for the project, including reports, drafts, plans,
designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs will be fur-
nished to the Association (Section 2.02(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
THA will execute the contract for these services by assigning principal
responsibility to its Director of Engineering and Technical Services. The
personnel of this Directorate have the capability to supervise the execution
of a design contract. Terms of reference for the design contract were devel-
oped jointly by the Association staff and THA staff. Upon completion of the
engineering services, the Government and THA would consult with the Asso-
ciation on the recommendations and conclusions relating to the project
(Section 3.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section
2.02(d)(ii) of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Costs, Financing and Disbursement
50.       The estimated total cost of the engineering services is US$3.0
million net of taxes and duties. 1/ This cost estimate includes an adequate
margin for contingencies (22%) and is based on a recent quotation. The
foreign exchange component would amount to US$2.5 million equivalent or 83% of
total costs. Details of project costs are included in the credit and project
summary. The proposed engineering credit of US$2.5 million would be repayable
over 10 years, including 2 years of grace and carrying a service charge of
3/4 of 1% per annum (Sections 2.05 and 2.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The proceeds of the credit would be onlent by the Government
to THA under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association; this would include an interest rate of 7.95% per annum,
repayment in 10 years including 2 years of grace and the foreign exchange
risk borne by THA (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The proposed engineering credit would finance the entire foreign exchange cost
and THA would finance the local costs amounting to US$.5 million equivalent
1/ The project is exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



- 17 -
(Section 2.01 of the draft Project Agreement). The proposed engineering
credit would be disbursed over a period of 20 months against 100% of the
foreign cost of the consultant's services. All withdrawal claims would be
fully documented.
Reporting and Accounting
51.       THA will maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
engineering credit and to reflect project expenditures; the Association will
be able to inspect all relevant records and documents (Section 2.04 of the
draft Project Agreement). THA would have its accounts audited each fiscal
year by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Within six months
of the end of each fiscal year it would furnish its audited financial state-
ments to the Association (Section 3.02 of draft Project Agreement).
Justification and Risks
52.       The risk involved in the proposed engineering project is minimal as
the same consultants who carried out the long-term development and updating
studies of the Port of Dar es Salaam have been selected for the engineering
services (paras 38 and 49); the consultants' previous work has been satis-
factory. No major delay in the implementation of the project is therefore
anticipated. The proposed Harbours Project, for which the engineering credit
is a necessary prior action, will be a major step towards the development and
the modernization of the Port of Dar es Salaam. Its objective will be to
improve the ports productivity, management efficiency, capability to handle
bulk grains and containers, and facilitate the entrance to and departure from
the harbour by ships. The project does not include any expansion in physical
facilities for handling break-bulk cargo as such, although it will contribute
greatly to the effective capacity for handling general cargo. The improvement
in efficiency of the port will relieve congestion and improve throughput, as
well as introduce modern techniques for grain and container handling. A
portion of the cargo handling equipment fleet will be replaced as it becomes
worn out. Improvements in equipment maintenance will be introduced; waste
removal will be facilitated; and a capability for continuing maintenance of
the paved surfaces of the port area will be provided. Technical assistance in
critical areas of port operations and management will be provided, as well as
assistance in training of personnel in critical skills, both at the port's
training center, and through offshore training.
53.       The major risks involved in the proposed Harbours Project for which
engineering design is to be undertaken are two fold: (i) traffic forecasts;
and (ii) capacity of the regional transport system to serve the Port of Dar es
Salaam. The principal uncertainty relates to Zambian traffic. Zambia, a
landlocked country, has traditionally been served by numerous routes through
Zaire/Angola, Mozambique, Rhodesia, and South Africa, as well as Tanzania. In
recent years the availability of all these routes, except that through
Tanzania, have been interrupted or denied completely due to political turmoil
in the region. Future availability of these alternative routes is currently
uncertain and is expected to remain so. It is clear that access to the sea
via Tanzania is the most economical and responsive one for Zambia.



- 18 -
54.       The second uncertainty relates to the transport links between the
Port of Dar es Salaam and the interior. The links to Zambia are the TANZAM
highway and TAZARA. In expectation that TAZARA would carry the bulk of
Zambia's traffic, the trucking services (mainly through ZTRS), were allowed
to deteriorate; however, TAZARA's performance has fallen short of expecta-
tions (low locomotive availability, poor wagon turnaround, and recently land
slides and damaged bridges). To deal with this, trucking services are now
being restored, and the international community is beginning to assist TAZARA
to deal with its difficulties. On a somewhat lesser scale, but of great
importance to the countries concerned, are the serious difficulties of the TRC
in efficiently linking the Port with a large area of Tanzania, and with the
landlocked region comprising Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and eastern Zaire.
Substantial investment aid, notably from the Canadian Government, is already
committed for the Railway, and a project is being prepared for possible Bank
Group financing. It is expected that these will provide significant input
into the rehabilitation of this railway.
55.       It is evident that the Port of Dar es Salaam cannot be considered
in isolation, but only as one link in a regional transport system. Conse-
quently, careful consideration has been given to the foregoing uncertainties
in relation to improvement of the port. With all factors taken into account,
the proposed Harbours Project is justified and has high priority. This
judgment is based on the assumption that Zambia will continue to use Dar
es Salaam as its principal outlet to the sea, and that the transport links
connecting Dar es Salaam to Zambia, Burundi, Rwanda and eastern Zaire will
be restored to an acceptable level of efficiency.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Tanzania Harbours Authority, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d), of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
57.       Features of the draft Development Credit and Project Agreements of
special interest are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfac-
tory to the Association, between the Government and THA would be a condition
of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 5, 1979



- 20 -
TABLE 3A                                          L i
TANZANIA - SOCIAL IVDICATORS DATA SHEET
LEFEJLNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A;RACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAZD SO.                                                  -- (OST REC17 ESTIMATE)         --
TOTAL            945.1                                                  SAME         UHLE    NEXT, hiGNia
ACRICULTUPAL     510.1                                MOST RECENT     CEOCIAPHIC   INCOME        INCOrz
1960 Lk    1970 Lb ESTI.MATE  b      LZGION Le  CGOUP /    GROUP la
CN? PER CAPITA (USS)                  70.0       120.0      230.0           306.1      209.6       461.5
LIIERCT CONSUMfl!04 ?ER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVA'T)        41.0        62.0      68.0            60.6       83.9        262.1
POPUtATION ANI! VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, SlD-MLAR (MILLIOS)      10.2        13.3      16.4
URBAN POPULATION          OF5LC   OP TOTAL) 4.8  6.9       9.7.            17.1       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TYAR 20CO (MILLIONS)                      32.0
STATIONALY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        94.0
TZAR STATIONARY POPUJLTION IS RACHED                  2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                       11.0        14.0      17.0             18.4       59.4        45.3
tP  Sq. KM. AGRICULTUI.L LAND     21.0        26.0      32.0            50.6       252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTOUR (PERCDET)
0-14 YRS.                         46.4        46.5      46.0            44.1        43.1        45.2
15-64 TRS.                         51.0        51.1      5t.0            52.9       53.2         51.9
65 ns. AND ABOVE                    2.6         2.4       3.0             2.8         3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROVE  RATE CPECEIT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.7       3.0              2.7        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              5.0         6.        8.35             5.7        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTU  RATE (PtR TiOUSAN)     47.0        47.0       46.0            46.3       42.4        39.4
CRLUDE DEATH IATE (PE TAOUSAND)     22.0        19.0       16.0            17.2       15.9        11.7
GROSS tEPRODUCTION LATE               ..         3.2        3.2             3.1        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANINUAL (TROUSANS)       ..          ..      93.6
USERS (PERCENT OF iAAXCED NO )    ..            ..        ..              ..        12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROOUCTIO4
PEI CAPITA (1969-71-100)          95.3       104.0      93.0            94.3        98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORILS (PERCENT or
UEQUILEXLNTS)                   69.0        88.0      86.0             69.5       93.3        94.7
PRTtINS (CLAMS PE DOY)            42.0        43.0      47.1            55.8        52.1        54.3
Or WssCH A:lMALAIM PULSE        22.0h       23.0      20.0             17.9       13.6        17.4
CHILD (ACGS 1-4) MO.RAIITY LATH     32.0        25.0       20.0            22.3       18.5        11.4
HEALSE
LIFE EXPECTANCT AT AMR (TELS)    42.0           47.0      51.0            47.0        49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE PuR
TROUSAND)                             ..       55.OL&   125.0              ..       105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE NAT7 0 CICSNT Of
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        13.0      39.0             20.3       26.3        34.4
UWAN                                ..        61.0      88.0             53.9       58.5        57.9
IRDAL                               ..         9.0      36.0             10.1       15.8        21.2
ACClSS TO  1ZRZEA DISPCSAL (?ZCENT
Dr POPULTION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      17.0             22.5       16.0        40.6
gum                                 ..          ..      U.              62.5        65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      14.0             13.9        3.5        27.1
POPULATION PU PSYSICIAN          21000.OLL  .20677.0   16490.0/t        17424.7    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER  uRSLNc PQSON      *300.0oj. 4641.0   33O.00.            2506.6      5552.4      L522.1
POPULATION PQ bOSPITAL  ED
TOTAL                            57S.0&      6S6.0        ..           502.3      1417.1       726.5
auRBA                               ..          ..        ..           201.4       197.3       27n.
ROAL                                ..          ..        ..           1403.6     2445.9      1404.4
&AMlISSIONS PU UDSPITALSI             .. -        ..         .             23.4       24.6        27.5
HOUSING
AV*AGE SI2C or 8oUs5COL
TOTAL                                            ALL       ..9                       3.3         5.4
R1                                  ..         3.2        ..             4.9         4.9         5.1
&RVAL                               ..         4.5/j    5.3              3.5         3 4         3.3
ACCGH NIfl oF PERSONS PF  OM
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
UR.A                                ..          ..        .....
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
&CCCSS TO CLICTUCITY (PUlCUT
OF DWELLI4CS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..        n.3          MI.1
OKBA"                               ..          ..        ..              ..        11.8        43.1
RURL                                ..          ..        ..              ..         ..          9.9



- 21 -
TABLE 3A]
TANZANIA - SOCIAL tYDtCAi0XS DATA SWEET
S  PTJ.ZUNC  ClROUPS (AZhUSJtED AX AE U
RAW.AXIA                       -      utOS1 R!C s -SS.-tt ) --
S0.I        SAil    Nt     I H.E,
IIC55 SZC.NT    CIOGCRIIC    1NC0.X        rYCOMt
1960 lb     1970./b ESTIMATE /b      ttC1o0  /c  'GROV? /d   CG)UP 
tDUCATION
AJUS tEO EOLL<ttNT RATIOS
PRIMIAY1     TOTAL                 28.0        38.0      70.0             59.0       63.3         62.7
MALi                 37.0         46.0      79.0             64.2        9.         6 7.3
FaIALt               20.0         30.0      60.0             4.2        48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:  SOTAL                   2.0         3.0       3.0              9.0       16.7         21.'
MALU                  2.0          4.0       5.0             12.0       22.1        33.0
FE-LA                 1.0          2.0       2.0            4*.         10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 0F StCOhtDAI)  23.0           ..         ..             7.0        5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TtACHER IlATIO
PRI MA I                           45.0        '6.0      50.0             42.2       41.0         >.1
5ECONDARY                          20.0        19.0      20.0             22.9       21.7         23.4
AWLT LTS RACY LArt (PUCIET)           9.5/I      28.1Ls    66.0             20.8        31.2        54.0
CON5Li?:ON
PASSENGER CARS Pn ThOUSAND
POPVLATION                          3.0         2.5       2.8              4.0        2.8          9.3
RADIO LtCE VIES PE*  TOOUSAJ
POPULATION                          2.0        11.0      19.0             44.3       27.2         76.9
TV lLECEIVERS tR THOUSAht
POPL'LATIOt                          ..         0.3        ..              2.9        2.4         13.5
nISPAPER (C-AnY CD.IRAL
tMILEST-) CDRCULATION PU
THOUSAND POPULATION                   3.0         5.0       '.5              5.6        5.3         18.3
C71C:lA ANUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5           ..       0.2              0.4         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
SOTAL LASOR FORCE (THOUSA)DS)      4578.0      5769.0    6486.0
?DIALZ (PERCENT)                   37.1        36.6      36.3      .      31.9       24.8         29.2
ACICLLTUR.E (PECrYIT)              69.3        86.0      864.0            77.6       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCE.NS)                 3.J         5.0       6.0              7.9       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PUCERCS)
TOTAL                                44.7        43.5      42.2             40.8       36.9         37.1
HAUL                                 56.9        55.7      5.3             53.9        52.4        *8.8
VDIALE                               32.8        3I.S      30.3             25.6        18.0        20.U
CONOfMIC D(PEIDEYCY lATIO               1.1         1.1        1.2             1.2         1.2         1.4
INCOME oIsMtIoN
PERCEN OF PRWVJAE INCOM
IZCEIVED SY
RIC.HIST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS     ..        33.5        ..               ..         ..         15.2
IlCHEST 20 PRCE.NT 0 IIOUSEHOLDS    ..        63.3        ..               ..         ..         48.2
LO6TSS 20 PRCENT OF ROOSEROLDS      ..         2.3        ..               ..         ..          6.3
LOVEST 40 PIECLES OF WOUSEWOLDS      ..         7.8         ..              ..         ..         16.3
P?RTY TARGET CROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLLME POVElTY UICCIZ
LUVEL (USS PER CA.PTA)
CURAN                                ..          ..     117.0            147.6       ".2         241.3
RURAL                                ..          ..      89.0             96.8        8.9        136.6
ZSTtASTO RELATIVE POYESM  IICO#Z
lEVEL (US* PuE CAPITA)
uA                                   ..          ..       7.0            138.4       9!.9        179.7
RURAL                                *-1.0                                71.0 5".8              103.7
ESTIMATED P?P?LATIOtt 5?LOV AISOLUJT
POVERTY LNCOM UVI;L (PERCENT)
U1R                                  ..          ..     U2.0              34.5       44.1         24.5
tUIAL                               ..           ..      85.0            4U.7        53.9         37.5
Not avallable
.oc applicable.
* -   -   --        wiTs
The adjusced group averages for eacb indLcator are populactoo-vight.d geomecrtrc Sean, eacludiag the extreme
values of the indicetor and the  est populated country In ech gcoup.  Coverage of eounctries &on  the
tedicator, depends oan veilabLItt of daca and is soc unilorm.
/,j    Unless othcrF. . aoced, data for 1960 rtofr to any year between 1959 enid 161; for 170. between 1969
md 1971; and for Most Recent Etimate. between 1974 and 1977.
e    Atrtic  South of Sahara;  /d  Low Incose (S280 or lose per capita. 1976);   /0  Lotr 1U%dl. Laceoe
(5261-550 por capita, 19767   /f   aimnl&ad Tansania;  L   1987;  /h  1961-63;  /1  1942;             U Rgits-
tcred. net *11 practice in the country.
Most Secant Lttiaets et CSIP per tapits to for 1976.
Augst. 1979



- 22 -
DWINITIONB OF SOCIAL INICATORS                                                                Pg  
Notes:  Although the data are drawn fro  a sures generally Judged the most authoritative sod reliable, it should also be acted that they asy not be interns-
tionally comparable because of the lack of standardized definitions and concepts used by different countries in collecting the data. The data are, nonetheless,
useful to describe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and charaterize certain najor differences between countries.
The adjusted group averagSes for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme, values of the indicator and the mast populated
country in each group. Due to lack of data, group averages of all jedicators for Capital Surplus 011 Exporters and of indicators of Access to Water and Excrete
Disposal, Housing, Ioons Distribution and Poverty for other country groups are population-weighted geometric meso  without exclusion of the extrem   values and
the most Populated coutry.  Since the coverage of coutries among the indicators depends on availabilityo    ata ad is not uniform, caution oust be exercised
In relatingtavetrages of one indicator to anothr.  These avenages are mostly useful as approximation  of  execed" values when coppalin  the vaue  of one
idcator ataim   a-n  the coutry and referene groups.
IARD AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                                              Access to EKoreta Dispsa  (eentfpplto)-ttl urban, and rual-
Total - Total surface area comprising land area. and inland waters.                      Nubrof  peol  (tota, uba,and rrl   evdb   xrt   ipsla
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                 perc entages of their respective populations. Excreta, disposal may include
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                   the collection and disposal, with or without treatment, of human emrrts.
lie fallow.                                                                            and wants-water by water-borne systems or the use of pit privies and  -oilar
installations.
GRP PERCAPITA (USS) - GNtP per capita estimates at cur,rent market prices,)              Popujgdjipgpe     ~ician  - Population divided by number of Practicing physicians
caclted by sans conversion method an World Bank Atlas (1976-78 basis)uife ; jiltii6                       hd1Ca.l school at university level.
1960, 19,70, and 1978 data.                                                            Population per Nurs ing Person - Population divided by number of practicing male
ENfERGY CONSUR(TION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of cormercial energy                    and female graduate nuses, Practical nurses, and assistant nures..
(coal an   int,ptoem    aua   a   o   yr-   ula d Ige-Poultio.n perHoapital Bed - total, urban, and rural - Popuiation (total, urban,
thermal electricit)in kilogroams of coal equivalent per capita; 1960                     adraldiided by their respective number of hospital beds available in
1970, and 1976 data,                                                                     public and Private general and specialized hostpital and rehabilitation  centers.
Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by at leant one Physician.
POPUIATIOR AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            Establishments providing principally custodial care are not Included. Rural
Total Population, kid-YearNbilliona) - As of JUly 1; 1960, 1970, and                     hospitals, however, inclode health and medical centers sot Permsnently staffed
1977 data.                                                                             by aphysician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer
Urban Ppltion (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                   in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range of medical facilities.
differntdefisitioss of urban-areasmay affect comparability of data                   Admissins per Hospital Bed - Total number cf admi..i.s to or discharges from
among conries; 1960, 1970, and 1975 data,                                               hositals divided by thnubrobe.
Popltio  Projctions
Population is year 2000 - Current Population projections ore based on              HOUISIRG
1975 total population by age and  en and thsir mortality and fertility             Average Size of Hosholfd (persZonsper household) - total, urban, and rura  -
rates. Projection pareameters for mortality rates comprise of three                  A household consist   fa  ru  of Individuals who share living quarters and
levels ass uming life expectancy at birth increasing with country's                  their main mals.A boarder or lodger say or may not be included in the
per capita income lee,ad female life expectancy stabilizing at                       household for saitical purposes.
77.5 years.  The Parameters for fertility rate also have three levels              Average number of person  per room - ttal, urban  and rural - Average comber
assuming declise is fertility according to incme, level and pant                     of persona par room inal rban  and rural occupied conentional  dwellings,
fesally planing Performance. Each coutry is them assigned one of these               respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and unoccpied parts.
nine combinations of mortality and fertility trends for projection                 Access tO Electricity (percnt of dellings)   total, urban  an .rra  -  Con-
prpoe.ventional dwellings wt   lcrct   nlvn    uresa  percentage of
Stationrypopulation - In a stationary population there is no growth                    total, uran, and rural dwellings respectively.
since the birth rate Is equal to the death rate, and also the age
structure reunions constant. Thin is achieved only after fertility rates        EDLEATION
declin  to the replacement level of unit net reProduction rate, when             -Adj-usted Horollas,t Ratios
each geeaion of woe  replaces Itself exactly.  The stationary popu-                  Primary school - total, male and female - Gross total, male and female enroll-
lain -sz   a  estimated us the basis of the projected characteristics                 eto.l  ages at the primary level as percentages of respective Primary
of ths population in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility               school-age populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years, but
rate tor relcmn ee.adjusted for different lengths of Primary education; for coutries with
Tearotatosar poplationis reached - The yea. when stationary Population             universa  education enrollment may exceed 100 percent since som  pupils
n!ticeoha  bees reached.                                                               are below or shove the official school age.
Popultio  Density                                                                        Secoodaryschooli-etotal maead female - Computed as abcs.;  --codary
Per so. km. - M4id-year population per square, kilometer ClOG hectares) of               edctoreuesat l:eas or years of approved primary iatruction;
total area                                                                             provides general vocational, or teacher training instrutioso  for pupi1s
Per so. ho. agicultural land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   usually of 12 to 17 ye"ar  of age; correspondence courses are g.nserlly
only.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~excluded.
Popuation Age Struture(percent) - Children (0-lb years), working-age                     Vocational erlment (percen of  eondary) - Vocational institutiono  include
C 15-b4 yeas)  and  etird7 (6  years and over) as peroentages of mid-year                technlcal *inusril,. ore ohr programs which operate independently or an
population;. 1960, 17,and 0197  data.                                                    departumnts of cecondary institutions.
Population Growth Rate (percen.t) - total - Annual growth rates of total mid-            Pupil-teacher rati  - prmr,ad secondar  - Total students enrolled in
year Populations for 1950-60, 1500-7   an   90f.primary and secodr   aevels divided by numbers of teachers is the coe-c
Population Growth Rat.pe~rcent) - urban - Annual growth rates of urban                      sponding levels.
populatio,nsafor 1_950-, 1960-70, and 1970-75.                                          Adult literacy rate.iercenat) - Literate adults Cable to rend and wits) as
CueRrtb Bae_erthousad) - Annual. live birth. per thousand of mid-                         percentage of tt aut population aged 15 years and over.
year, population; 1   ,  90,ad 1977 data.
Crude Death Hate   e  tosn)- Annual deaths per thouand of mid-year                   CONSUI4PTICS
populatti..;1960' 19707iiCd 1977 data.                                               Passenger Cur  (per thosad poatina)     Pansenger cars comprise motcr ones
Gross Reproduction Rate-Acerage sober of daughters a woman will bear                      seating less than sihth person; ecldes ambulances, heresad military
in her normal reproducti ve Period if sh.excperiences Present age-                     vehicles.
specIfic fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending In 1960,                 Radio Receivers (per thuad popuain  -All types of receivers for radic
19701, an-d 1975.                                                                       brodcasts to generalpubiF        a  thousand of population; eccludes unlicensed
FiiyPannin    AccePtors An l(thousands) - Anneal number of                           receivers In countries and in years, when registration of radio sets  .anin
acceptors of birth-coto   eie  under auspices of national family                       effect; data for recent ye-ar  msy not be comparable since m-t coun trie
Planning program.                                                                      abolished licensing.
Family Planning - Users (percent of marriedwmen)   Percentage of married               TV Receivers(era   thousanddtpoultion) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
women of child-hearing age  1~Ayas   h use birth-control devices                       publipethuadPouainexludes unlicensed TV receivers in countries
to all married woe  in sane age group.                                                 sod in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
F2~~~~D     NUr: TION                                              11-12tV~~~~~~ewpayr  irculation (per ihoMuand population) - Shows the nverage circulation
FOGS ASP NUTRITIOR                                          -      ~~~~~~~ofdal  gneraLl.iterest newspaper", defined as, a periodical publicatioc
Inexo  Fo  P-cues per Capita (199-71=100) - Indes of Per capita                   devoted Primarily to recording general sews.  It is considered to be "dail'y"
annual productica of all fond commdities. Product Ion excludes sed and                 if It appears at leant four times a week.
feed and is on calendar year basis.  CoomoodIties cover primary goods                Cinema, Annual Attendance perCpt   c   er-Bsdo  h   ubro ikt
( e.g. sugaran  instead of sugar) which are edible and cotain nutrients                soddrn   h   er   neCludingamision  to Bdrive-in    numem           r and mobilet
(eg "cfeead tea are excluded).  Aggregate production of each country            -nita.
is based on national average producer price nights.
Per capita oupply of calories (perent of requirements) - Computed from             LABOR FORCE
energy equivalent of net fond supplies available in country per capita             To-t-al Labcr Force (thousands) - &.onmically active persons, including armd
pcr day. Available supplies comprise domestic production, Imports less               fcr"s and unemployed but excluding houewives, students, etc. Defisitlons
exports, and changes in stock.  Ret supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,             is various count ries are not conparble.
quantities used is food processIng, and loss.es in distribution. Require-          Feal  (pcent)c- Female labor force as Percentage of tctal labor force.
nects were estimated by FAG based on Physiological needs for normal                192Mlture    acnt) - labor fore in farming, forestry, hunting and
act ivity and health considering ecvirconmental temperature, body weights,           fishing as perentage of total labor force.
age and sec distributions of population, and allowing 10 percent for               Indust y(.percent) - Labor fcrce is mining, construction, manfacturing and
wsate ahoshold level.Z 5iiy  water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Per caPita suppl of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                 PripaonBt(ecnt) - totl   al  and feae- PartIcipatio.n or
capita net supply of food per day. Ret oupply of food is defined as                  ativ ty ratesaecmue  mttl   ae adfml   ao   oc spr
shove. Requirement  for all coutries established by USSi provide for a               cantages of total, male and female population of all ages respectively;
minim  allowancet of 6o gram  of totalprotein per day and 20 gramma of               1960. 1970, and 1975 data.  These are ILO's participation rates reflecting
animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams, should be animal protein,               age-sex structure of the population, and long time trend.  A fe  estimates
These standards are lower than those of 75 greamse of total prote in and             are from national soure.s.
23 gram  of animal Protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAG            Economic Deedec  Raio -  Ratio of Population under 15 and 65 and over to
in tie Third World Food Survey.                                                      telbrfcein age group of 15-64 year..
Per caPita proteinspl fom anmaad pulse - Protein supply of food
derive   frmaiml  n  plses in grams, par day.                                    lOEDNILTQ
Child Cages 1-4) NrauyRte (per thousand) - Annual. deaths per thousand                 Percentage of Priva.te Incom   (botphin cash and kind) - Received by richest
In age group 1-4 years, to childres In this age group; for most devel-                 5 percent, riches  20pret, porest 20 Percent, an  poorest hO percent
opiug coutrIes data derived from  life tables,                                         of households.
HEALTH                                                                                  POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Life Expectancy at Sirth -(yars  - Avelrage   nhr of years of life                     Estimated Absolu.te Poverty Incom  Level CUS$ per capibta)' -uba  ad rural 
reaiin  at birth150  190   n   977. data                                            Absolute poverty income leve  is that Income leve   blwbih a minimal
Scfat itiaity Rate (per ithusad) -Annual deaths of infants under one                     nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
year of age per thousand live births,                                                   affordable.
Accen. to Safe Water (percentof         ltis - ~total,turban and rura  -                Estimated Relative Poverty noeLvlCS per capita) - urban and rural-
Rumbr o  peple(total  uban, sdrUra wih resnbeaccess to                             Rural relative poverty incme  ee  isoe-third of average per capita
safe cater supply (includes treated suface waters or untreated but                     personal income of the country. Urban level Is derived from  the rural level
uncontaminated ester ouch as that from protected boreholes, springs,                   with adjustment for higher cost of living in urban area.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective Populations. In               Estimated P,poltion Below Absolute PovertyIcm    ee  ?ret      ra  and
anurban ware  a public fountain or standpost located not mere than                    rua            a Pret o  uaio   ubnad rural  who ae  absolute pr
200 meters from a house nay be considered asbinzihi   esoal
access of that house. In rural areas reasonable naccess would imply
that the housec ife or members of the hcusehold do not have to spend a                                                        Ecos-mic and Social Data DivIi.on
diaroportionate part of the day is fetohing the family's water seeds                                                    coo-mic Analysis sod PrJecti.s. Department
August 1979



-23 -                                                                  I
TAPZ7AN
Ietosil lPi910_t Oat. 5t-t
Act-el                           7!1                         Prola tud                        Arae Ar. Groeth Rat. ?                1977
1972        1973       1974        1975       1976       1977        1976       1979       1980        1985       1990         1972-77     19 H7-85    1995-90      Share of
1972  1973                                                                            -72-,,     19"N"        i   -I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
A   NATIONAL ACCOUTS
(MIlli.on US $ t 1977 Ptir-a)
I   GOD                                              2773.9      2662.2      3004.7     3119.4      3364.1     3548.4    3734.1      3890.2      3921.6     4891.8      6139.9          5.0          4.1         4.7       100.0
I   Gains fro-  Ta of Trade (7T)                     -161 0      -207.5      -349.9     -345.7       -69.9    -116.1    -135.0    -181.5         -196.8     -215.8      -239.2            .           .           .          -3.3
3   Grta...         ntm                              2612.9      2454.7      2655.8     2773.7      3294.2    3426.3    3599.1       3700.7      3724.6     4176.0      5900.7          5.6          4.0         4'9        96.7
4   lVort                                            1006.7       101'0.8     895.4          .       710        8042.4    1066.4      869. 7      845.1     1014.6      1211.7         -5.9          3. 4 0      3.6        22.7
5 faorta -  olm a                                1034.7      1004.5       741.3      734.5      824.5       486.3     694.4       733.5       687.4      831.9      1067.5         -8.2         2.5          5.1        19.4
6.  Rporta  - 7T ad  ated                             899.7       803.3        546.5     493.7       681.1      486.3      559.4      552.0       490.6      616.0      828.3          -5.2         -1.3         6.1        19.4
7   pTsoora GA  -f7T adjoated                         191.0       207.5       340.9      345.7        69.9      116.1     507.0       337.7      354.5       398.6       383.4                  .           .        .       3.3
8.  Total CooaoapAiaon                               2163.0       1986 3     2483.1     2555.0      2634.9    2986.6    3392.6       3379.6      3268.5     4825.2     4950.8           6.6          3.8         4.2        84 3
9.  lotearnt                                          648.9       682.2       755 7      669.3      635.7       671.9     713.3       666.8       810.6     1049.4      1333.3          1.0         5.7          4.9        19.0
10.  Hatetome  Ninloe                                  430.4       464 5       304.1      314.2       076.4      537.1    200.3        336.2       506.6      693.0      986.0           1.1         3.2          7.3        15.2
11.  Oat  Glcaf.ntoga                                  489.9       468.4       252.7      218.7      639.3       439.7     206.3       329.1       456.3      650.8      949.9          -0.4         5.0          7.8        12.4
12.  MOP t torrent US0                                1564.1       1866.2     2239.1     2564.4     2761.4    3542.4    4495.1       4075.7       5401.1     9899.3    18256.3          17.6         13.7        13.2
B. SE8TOR UU7TUT
(Share of Gop *A 1977 fti.ea)
1.  Iedoatry                                           16.3        17.5        16.0       15.1        14.4       13.8       14.2       14.2        14.4       15.3       16.6           1.3         5.1          6.4
0.  48tircltora                                        51.1         54.0       46.8       48.6        50.4       51.0       49.3       48.9        48.5       4.0         6 4.3         4.7         2.4          3.9
5.  SamItem                                            52.7        29.5        37.2       36.4        35.3       35.2       36.5       36.9        37.3       30.7       39.1           6.3         5.1          4.9
C.  PRICES
1.  NApoet frt-e I148a                                 36.4        43 3        64.2       63.6        76.7      100.0       91.1       91.7        94.8      132.5       177.0         22.4         3.6          6.0
2.  Iwort Prtta Irdoaa                                 45.0        54.1        87.1       94.6        90.8      100.0      114.0      124.7       132.8      179.0      228.1          18.4          7.6         5.0
3.  7o.ay of Trade                                     84.7         60.0       73.7       67.2       82.7      100.0        79.9       73.6        71.4       74.1       77.6
4.  MP? D .flator (US S)                               56.4         70.1       74.5       82.2        82.1      100.0      120.4      125.2       137.7      202.4       297.3         12.1          9.2         8.0
5.  Aneraa d tch-ge. fate (TSb/USS)                   7.143       7.021       7.143      7.614      8.379       8.274      7.689      8.281
D.       IE3  I9DICA70RS                                             1972-77    1978-85    1985-90
1.  I1OR                                                           4.40       4.71        4.65
2.  bwort Elaatl-lay                                              -0.02        0.73       0.77
3   Aneroja  t .4Ial  Sanlna Rate                                 17          11.9       15.2
4.  tnaraa  tetlotal Ganln8e Gte                                  19.0        12.7       15.5
5.  -grgltAl  -altalE Sant    R tae.                              -0.24        0.33       0.04
6.  IlI-rt/GOP                                                    29.8        22.3       20.1
7.  -neat tt/GIP                                                   2.40       22.0       22.6
8   tao.ra G p/cGY                                                 7.0        10.1        7.4
E   EllPLOYKElt
1. Labor Torte (alIlloo)
2.  E Aloyaat (7  here)                                            100.0      100.0
2.1 AOrltoltre                                                      91.0       04.0
2.2 ladnatry                                                         2.0        6.0
2.5  Somltee                                                         7 0       10.0
2/                                                                                                 rn..       Pt_e.
F.  PUBLIC FIN60Cr                                                                                                  Attoel     Attoal      Eat.
(MIllIto  TShillitga)                                1965/66     1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79
1.  Qorroo3t  tvenete                                  716        2357         2023       5946       3919       5250        6860       6960
1.1 Tao teteo                                          602        1927         2510       3161        3302      4279        5317       5721
2.  o       "rrett tpet-dltAre                         707        2223         2700       3961        3716       4641       5592       6666
2.1 Ge Ieral Adtia-tretlot                             267          749         944       1341        1293       1759       1870       2296
3     -oret SanRga                                       9         134          238        -15        203         609        568        302
4.  -oretet GretA.                                        .          62         214        377         469        626        709       1749
5. Surploc Aallable for Fi-itnrlt
Genelopeect xfpetdltore ...                                 196         452         362        672       1235        1277       2051
A.  Detelopoatt GRpendtt-re                            230         956         1442       2225        2253       2763       3585       5780
7.  noerll   fftlrlt                                   _         -760        -1190      -1863      -1581      -1520       -230a      -3729
8   Flnanrltd of tte naClAlt
Ixterral toera                                   03         456          467        661        564         777        660       1834
Dat1"tl BtrroeIn8a
long-tar-". 269                                                       346        402        480       1331         536       1151
Short-ten                                     ..          35          377        719        537       -584        1112        745
1/  It 1966 priee and 1977 indet ba.  year.                                                                                                                                                      oEAo2
2/ Conttee Qcnarnuent



o                                 a                                                              .
92C         llQ    ~5   R   .0001       0-L.'oOo    e        .0.0. 99it-  r            01              .0 w9.00_
|~~~10   S.  0                                           s          - -      000  01  00   ta>g                      .0    00  000t 
^ n ^         iOfl>i g >~.aaS    B                   o -n    t   BBfl0Ol           000   00 c00.~              0'i'    0 l"     "*n  ,z   .r
n~~~~ ~ ~                    00.        00000. e.  OB.,-.'    t S11 0r   n00'- n                      l B    Cn              .000.0.=,,
li & B     " " n            cO- _       00.0 e0.    00 -= 0_.    0  ee                          0  1e  0 n e     n 1* 00
B >      d   o                 n  X o n       g 0000*rI r10  n0g0n _ _V 2o                                  z z
< B "       gF      =        B   g01n r.0n.n                                              OtO 2eto o
-.                    - ;      '                                                         0   010      0 e0
r00 6                          :        0010                                                           ,.0 
n o                           _                                                         0   0      0.t0
-r                                                                                                   ___-I.000      OlBo0
IIb                                             *0                                                    2
~~~~~~~~~~~~o
0- 0 4                            00  to  00           .. O0. O0 C1C.   1   J   0O                      e                       3
-so                                - _o  -                       I '  ;  , .  1to       C           00B Io        -  ~    
0                                              --         Ig      tol                 0       S    .o      000 >       "~ 4-  I e         -  0
.000         to  C0 cI o1000                    000 00                - c.          0-  010.    01- Io        t
B  000-     0            0-0000.0.0 ~          4X to..0000            0q  1to 000.00    WOb                   Q
0   0'   -     .0.0001.00~ ~ 0-o-.Oooso                  o    Iw.       I  lIto   00             110
0000'~ ~~~~~~~ 0' Is                                     - ->          ' 10000-  .0000.0  00 000 0 000
.000'~ ~~ ~~~~ 0  0                       o.00  100010 c   0   00 0o  000    000'o         @X        n=
a~~~~~~~~ -    .0~ -ct I .0                                                                     0;o    1
_                                                    cF '00 0  .0    F Ft to FIo|u tO          0 I   t'r.0F0      010
00'                1 1 0.0 0 0                       00000                ttr0            I 00 o0                  t
t4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  00                                                                               0000l1



-25-                                                          Annex 1
Page 6
TANZANIA
Debt- /and Creditworthiness
Actual                                  Preliminary
1972        1973        1974         1975        1976        1977         1978
A.  Medium and Long-term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US $ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)                 441.7       557.1        728.3       917.1      1029.2      1123.4       1213.1
2.  Including Undisbursed                                       835.5       987.3      1280.5       1359.0      1555.9       1649.3      1806.4
3.  Public Debt Service                                          43.3        39.3         32.4        34.1        41.6         48.4        49.6
3.1 Interest                                                     11.1        12.5         13.6        16.2        19.5         22.1        24.7
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                     ..          ..           ..
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                          41.3          9.3          6.8         7.3         6.6          7.1         7.8
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                              2.8         2.1          1.4         1.3          1.2         1.4         1.1
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                       14.7        10.3          6.6         6.4         7.6          7.0         5.8
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                               2.5         2.2          1.9         1.8         1.9          2.0         2.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Totai DOD                                  9.8         7.1          4.4         3.7         4.0          4.3         4.1
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                      23.5        20.8         20.7        31.4        17.6         22.2        14.5
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                             16.2        16.4         18.3        29,2        14.4         18.9        12.4
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                             68.8        79.1         88.3        92.8        82.1         85.2        85.8
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                 16.9        19.1         10.4        21.0        14.0         17.2        17.8
2.  Pank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements           19.4        21.8         14.0        28.2         37.2        37.8        31.6
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                           12.2        13.4         12.4        15.4         15.1        16.3        17.3
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                     23.1        23.8         21.1        24.2         25.7        29.3        31.3
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                         10.2        15.3         20.4        26.4        34.1         33.1        40.5
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                   11.1        16.3         22.5        28.4         36.5        35.5        43,5
Outstanding December 31. 197
Amount              Percent
(US $ Million)
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)
209.9                 17.3
1.  IBR                                                                                379.2                  31.3
2.  Bank Group                                                                           619.2                51.0
3.  Other Multilateral                                                                  714.2                 58.9
4.  Governments                                                                         317.3                 26.2
of which Centrally Planned Economies                                            317.3                   1.
5.  Suppliers                                                                            16.5                  1.4
6.  Financial Institutions                                                               20.3                  1.75
7.Bonds                                                                                3.1                  6.3
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.                                                                   3.1                  6.3
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt-/                1/                                       1213.1                100.0
10.  Total Public Debt (incl. undisbursed)                                              1806.4                148.9
G. Debt Profile
1. Total Debt Service 1979-83/Total D0D End of 1978
InoDA
1/  Inlude  Tanania'  notonalshar  of 4% ofEAC  ebt.November  26,  1979



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1979
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.         Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Five loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                77.2          90.8
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                  10.8     1.4
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Fourth Education                                 10.3     2.2
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                        18.5     3.2
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                           17.5    10.0
460-TA    1974' Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                          6.0     0.6
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                          21.0                   3.2
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                8.5     2.2
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                              10.2     3.7
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development (Kigoma)                       10.0     6.0
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                               9.0                    1.1
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                            10.0     6.4
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                            15.0                   2.5
1172-TA    1975  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                    1.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                              6.0     3.2
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                           18.0    11.8
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                  11.0     7.5
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                    30.0            14.5
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                            7.0                   4.5
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                         9.0     8.1
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                8.0      1.5
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                 15.0                  12.1
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex              11.5              5.7
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                       5.6
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                        7.2     5.8
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                        12.0    11.8
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                         15.0    11.3
1498-TA    1977  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                   9.2
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                 27.5    13.3
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                 14.0    14.0
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                    12.0    11.4
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                   25.0                  25.0
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                 20.0    19.1
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                           14.0    14.0
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                  12.0    12.0
875-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                           30.0    30.0
1650-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper             30.0                  30.0
876-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                     20.5   20.5
1745-TA 6/ 1979  TDFL       Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.              11.05/                11.0
1750-TA 4/ 1979  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank          25.G0-                25.0
Total                                                     276.7  41.5   428.8  381.9
of which has been repaid                                7.0      -      7.5
Total now outstanding                                  269.7  41.5   421.3
Amount sold                          0.1
of which has been repaid           0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                         269.7  41.5   421.3
Total undisbursed                                         130.7  20.2   231.0  381.9
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.
5/   Excludes $15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit being administered by IDA.
6/   Declared effective November 1, 1979.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1979
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours              35.0               0.6
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways              42.4               0.4
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours              26.5               0.9
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                 4.1
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance 15.0                 5.9
Total                                           244.8              11.9
of which has been repaid                      52.8
Total now outstanding                           192.0
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid       24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       192.0
Total undisbursed                                11.9              11.9
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
(AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1979)
There are currently 36 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved
control over field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all
factories. Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past,
about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabil-
itated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976
survey of the tea industry, additional planting has been carried out and
effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba
area. Recommendations of the survey regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are also
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. In general, progress on the project is improving. The closing date
will be postponed to allow sufficient time for completion of the Mwakaleli
factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. The most serious issue is the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
lack of adequate financial support from the Treasury; this issue was taken up
during the last review and the Tanzania Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
is organizing a meeting between NARCO, the Commissioner for Public Investment
(CPI) and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) to address the issue
of equity contributions In summary, although progress has been made, major
problems remain and will require continued attention.  The closing date of
the Credit has been postponed by 12 months to December 31, 1980 in order to
complete the ranch development program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$1705 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5. 1974; Closing Date   December 31, 1982
The project continued to show good progress since the appo-Intment
in October 1977 of a new Project Manager0  However, in view Cf the failure
of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the pro'ect must
now be consi-dered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather
than an agri'cultural product-ion project. A major object,ve i's now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy0  The most sign-'fi4
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distribousted
and superv-Lsed trlal sites and improved credit recovery0 Recruitment of
staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Im3lementation
Reviews began0  Project problems remaining are the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extens'-on staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
f-ThanciLng of road construction0  The project will continue to be kept under
close review0
Loan No0 1014--TA   Cashewnut Development Project:  US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date -- December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is pro-
ceeding well in accordance with the revised completion schedule. Processing
plant and machinery has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment
for the remaining threeo The project faces problems with regard to expected
marketed production reaching potential processing capacity. This continued
decline in the marketed production is, however, puzzling in view of the price
increase and the attractive returns per labor day. An intensive analysis of
the cashewnut production issue is to be carried out by the Government agencies
responsible for review of agricultural production in Tanzania. The take over
of the industry by the Cashewnut Authority (CATA) and the consolidation of its
activities are proceeding; its management has improved since the appointment
of a new General Manager last year.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Progress has been made in improving control of materials flow for
civil works, promotion of a coffee production program, labor-intensive road
works, project accounting and disbursement performance, and increasing farmer
demand for inputs. However, project implementation continues to be slow.
Little construction work has taken place over the last five months of wet
season agricultural activities. Trials were planted late in two of the
three districts due to misallocation of project finance vehicles. Little
action has been taken on procurement. As recommended in the mid-term review
of this project, agreement has been reached on a number of proposed amend-
ments to the legal documents in order to make the project design more flexible.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Project work is virtually completed except for purchase of some
vehicles and completion of the sugar survey and the training program. In view
of this, the closing date may have to be extended by nine months. Kilombero
Sugar Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers continues and
is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than expected cane
yields. A new management advisory agreement for a further two years with
emphasis on agriculture will be financed by the Netherlands. Phase III of
the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed shortly. With regard
to the Sugar Development Corporation's request to Treasury to consider KSC's
proposals as to its debt-equity ratio, the Treasury has decided to provide
KSC TSh. 100 million as equity and TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish
sources. The loan will be at an interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years
repayment including 5 years of grace. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is under
preparation and is expected to be signed by the Treasury shortly.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12. 1976; Closing Date - December 31. 1981
The Project is progressing at a slower pace than anticipated and
fishing operations are now expected to begin by early 1980. Eight vessels for
the coastal commercial centers are already under construction, and procurement
of engines and fishing gear is in progress. Tender documents for the procure-
ment of steel boats for the Kigoma Commercial Center are being finalized.
The recent outbreaks of cholera at Lake Tanganyika have caused a setback in
Project activities on the Lake, particularly the Ujamaa Village Program, and
steps have been taken to speed up the identification of suitable villages and
the preparation of investment plans.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm
review of the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 draft pro-
posal for a three year Intensification Phase in six regions where potential
for increasing production exists, extending the project period from July 1979
to June 1982. The project has therefore been redesigned in order to intensify
the project activities during the remaining period. The redesign of the
project has been agreed upon by the Government, BADEA (the co-financier) and
the Association.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The project status deteriorated during 1978. The large scale para-
statal farms have been poorly managed, production is below expectation and
financial prospects are dismal. The ujamaa component proceeds slowly and
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank is actively investigating alternative
means of assisting village milk production and consumption. The foot and
mouth disease control investigation has commenced. The project will continue
to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, physical progress has
now been satisfactory for the past two years. The nurseries are well stocked
and maintained, and the current planting program on schedule. Progress on
fire protection, road construction and building is satisfactory. Procurement
of equipment needed for the next season is, however, delayed and project
accounts need updating. These are partly due to staffing problems; the
position of financial controller and workshop foreman became vacant as well
as the position of assistant project manager and silviculturist/economist.
Government is approaching bilateral agencies for recruitment assistance.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed except for instal-
lation of the main circuit breaker equipment. Building work at Morogoro is
proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsi-
bilities of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high
bank overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TAT TSh. 29 million
representing the local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition,
TAT has also claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost
incurred by them during 1977-78. TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been
audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The level of regional commitment to the project has been good and
overall project performance is satisfactory; disbursements are on schedule.
However, some delays have been experienced in the delivery of equipment and
vehicles procured under the project, and shortage of trained extension agents
in the Region continues to hamper the crop development component. These
delays should not be over-emphasized since project management has been
effective in getting the project initiated.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily. However, CATA is facing some financial
difficulties which are being discussed with the Treasury.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start.  Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Develop-
ment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable can-
didates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant and
advertisement of the other two have been done.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness - March 5, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
While some of the senior support staff have been recruited, most key
posts remain to be filled, and although good progress has been made in the
livestock, water resource and forestry components, the expected implementation
of an experimental program of agricultural extension has not been initiated.
Future supervision missions will pay particular attention to progress made by
the agricultural extension staff towards improving the extension system. The
effects of the Uganda war are still being felt in the project's area causing
problems for the supplies situation.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
95%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed by 18 months to December 31, 1979, but would still require an
additional 6 months. Total project cost is now estimated at about TSh. 109
million, an increase of approximately 5% over the appraisal estimate of
TSh. 104 million. The Government does not foresee any financial problem in
providing the required additional funds. Three Community Education Centers
out of eight have started operating programs for village development, educa-
tion and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational Training Centers
are in operation at almost full capacity. The technical assistance and
fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching funds disbursed.
Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship component of the project
are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for Village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvement. In fact, housing construction is in line with VMT
training which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment
of over 500 VMTs as Village Managers in January 1978. There are delays in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy experts for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on June 25, 1979.  The Ministry of
Labor has appointed a representative to the Project Unit and is working with
the Ministry of Education on a plan for coordinating project implementation.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This credit became effective on August 24, 1979. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruitment of project coordinator is
being finalized and the consultants for the rehabilitation of project lodges
and hotels, have been appointed.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After a slow start, project implementation improved.   Seventeen of
the 22 local staff positions are filled and virtually all expatriate experts
will have local counterparts to train. All equipment procured through ICB
have been delivered. Rehabilitation, regravelling and routine maintenance
activities have improved in both quality and quantity. However, it is neces-
sary to recast the project by amending its scope to address the problems which
have been encountered in implementing the project; these changes will bring
the project in line with the Fifth Highway Project. The Closing Date has been
postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow for completion of the project and the
disbursement. The technical assistance contract with the consulting firm
"ORT" will expire in November 1979, and the Government is now recruiting
individual experts to complete the project.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 24 people in post
or approved out of a total of 29. The project is experiencing some problem
with equity contribution for the proposed project transport companies. The
Treasury proposed to provide the balance of the equity contribution for



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
1979/80. The National Transport Coordination (NTC) has submitted a report
to the Treasury regarding the availability and distribution of vehicle spare
parts in recent years. NTC has also commissioned a study of the role and
objective of the National Institute of Transport. The design of the transport
data collection system is progressing well.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project;  US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready of occupation. Education facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in the
project are nearing completion. Progress on the lending program administered
by the Tanzania Housing Bank is slow although satisfactory progress is being
made in the implementation of the action program to improve it. Total project
cost is estimated (at current exchange rates) at US$15.9 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents although overall implementation progress is slow. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. All
project staff have now been appointed. The Consultants' report on the Land
Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by the Government in January 1978
and a pilot test of the new Urban Charge System for cost recovery proposed in
the study was carried out in Morogoro.  However, progress in the implementa-
tion of this system in other areas is slow. Disbursements are substantially
behind appraisal estimates. These issues will be reviewed during the next
supervision mission.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, con-
tract for exploratory drilling at Mindu Dam site is completed, two contracts
for plant (pumping and treatment) are in the stage of final inspection of
goods prior to shipment to Tanzania, and two construction contracts were
awarded In December 1978 and March 1979. Completion of the water works
expansion is expected in February 1981, 21 months behind schedule, but a
pilot operation is scheduled to commence in November 1980. Project cost is
now estimated at US$27.6 million, 43% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. In December 1978, the Government approved an increase in its contri-
bution to the project to cover the financing gap. Some progress has been made
towards creation of a parastatal national urban water supply authority and
increase in tariff to maintain their levels in real terms at the level exist-
ing in July 1976. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project costs will have to be closely monitored.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981               _
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts
have been awarded. Project construction is on schedule at all sites. TANESCO
has obtained approval on its tariff increase. Current estimated project cost
is US$97.8 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost
overrun of 28%. This is mainly due to underestimation of the project costs by
the engineering consultants. KfW has already increased its contribution to
the project and SIDA has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its
allocation to cover its proportionate share of the cost overruns. Plans to
make any additional contribution by the Bank to bridge the gap is being
reviewed.  It is expected that US$7.0 million from the EEC Special Action
Fund will be allocated to this project.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This Credit has been fully committed.  Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under.
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to December 31, 1979 but may require a further post-
ponement of 6 months.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1980
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all tech-
nical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National Textile
Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has
agreed to institute an immediate action program to improve the operating
performance of existing mills. The project was technically completed in
October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million.  In order to utilize this
amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which are essential parts
of the project, the Closing Date was postponed by one year to July 1, 1980.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Total commitments as of September 30, 1979 were US$4.8 million of
which US$4.1 million,- US$0.4 million and US$0.3 million were for consultancy
services, training and project unit services, respectively.  The procedures
for processing proposals have been streamlined and it is expected that the
pace of commitments and disbursements will be increased.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7, 1979. Prep-
aration of tender documents are progressing satisfactorily and no delay in
project completion is anticipated.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million Credit and US$30.0 million Loan
of April 6, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan and this credit are not yet effective.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan is not yet effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
both countries is competent. Some US$34.4 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                      (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                   1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                   1.9
Total                   7.7
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Director approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance the East African Mediation effort.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHE/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have been
completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The slippage
of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement caused
by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of headquarters.
At September 30, 1979, about US$28.4 million of the loan had been disbursed.
The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the
countries concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$9.1 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1979
Fiscal Year            Obligor            Type of Business      Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing        3.96    0.70    4.66
1978            Highland Soap and          Soap Manufacture    1.37    0.40    1.77
Allied Products Limited
1979            Metal Products Limited   Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                      6.66    1.28    7.94
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC            2.70    0.58    3.28
Total Undisbursed                            2.70    0.58    3.28



- 43 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM PORT ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the credit         6 months
(b)  Project prepared by                 :   Government and Consultant
(c)  First presented to the Bank Group :  April 1979
(d)  Preparation mission
(e)  Appraisal mission
(f)  Completion of negotiations              October 1979
(g)  Estimated date of effectiveness         March 1980
LI.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) By June 30, 1980, THA will complete a review of its tariff
levels and furnish the findings and recommendations of such
review to the Association for its review and comments
(para. 44).
(b) Upon completion of the engineering services, the Government
and THA would consult with the Association on the recom-
mendations and conclusions relating to the project (para. 49).
(c) Completion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to
the Association between the Government and THA would be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 57).






IBRD 14457
'soc.                                                                       /                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGOUST 1979
/l
/                                  ORf,caI  Host~~~~~~~rta Ettatee~~~P  1,
~  oa                                            Post Gatt                       %
o I                \        he  I/d                                     P.            GadS     Nhed3
rNmc                                                    C,.~~~~~~~~~~~~raeke                       CIT
'71~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sa                                                                                                                                                             L~g4e     Anhorag
>7                            Maoerrga~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
5                 //        ~                                     H                         ~          ~          Ra                                     Ahclo:g
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AogieB h
J,                                                          ~~~~~~~~TANZANIA
PORT O F DAR E S SALAAM/                                                                                                                                 i/
TIPER C)IL REFINFRY                                   EXISTING  AND  PROPOSED DEVELOPMENTS
I     CONTAINER FACIL TY                                              /7
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~2                                            IMPORT WAREHOUSE                                                                                           cso
/  ~ ~~~~~13                                                     GRAIN SILO, UJNLOADER, AND CONVEYOR
SOrtc                           j4                                                              TUG BERTH
5      OIL BERTH                                                                       Wa  R'  t~ 
~~~~~  I ~~~~~~~~~~~6                                     DEMOLITION OF EXISTING OIL JETTY 
ZAR~~~E      TANZANIA                                                                                                                                                                               .:                                  nih B-k a ae  oordh h
-    i 15T0Ra                                                                                              TR    RC  RAILWAY (Ir  Gmgol.)                                                          rrr
Ocean                                                                      TAZARA  RAILWAY III.o G..g. el
tO                 t9'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   I                 ~~~~~~~MOORING  BUOYS                                                                                                                            Wo t,rhld o-k -depei 05f50-
a                                                                                                            E-t F-y Pt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Er  er  t    ooelrh h ~O 510O
300            600                                                                                        -._  ,osasrfe,hooa,e
,~~~~A  RAAL,AWR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METERS.






IBRD 14458
AUGUST 1979
LIGHTER
) WHPARF
*SN    0                        g                         DAR ES SALAAM
KURASINI                       c
0/
DOCKYARD                                ~AKABEWEST FERRY
C  r                                                                ee ,PO  9Sit FONT    -<  i
EAST FERAS R        GO
RS RONGONI $0 ,                                 ?X                           ,                      
3~~~~~!3 
This rap has been prepared by the
World Banks staff e-elsrely for,                                                                                             .
the coanenenca of the readers of
the report to shech it is attached
The dnore,nations used and the                                                                                                                                                                                      2
boundaries shown on this rap - P
do not reply, on the part of the                                                                           '
World Bank and its affiliates, anv
1odgreet on the legal statos of
any territory or any endor-erer t
or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                TANZAN  IA
PORT OF DAR ES SALAAM
ENTRANCE CHANNEL IMPROVEMENT
r0k jfieleoiO                                                                           * :-': '' :  CHANNEL DREDGING                                             -                                      .
k r' IS4;r                     vr Andictn              CURRENT  CHANNEL ALIGNMENT                                                      T_               /          -'
s,iv ;GOceoiri                                          PREVIOUS CHANNEL ALIGNMENT
TANZANIA                                                                 A       BOI
lA-I IRE    i2-l rANZANIAk           Doe Drc SScloare                *                            BEACON  OR LIGHT
REEF
10- r s t A   +   5                               METERS                         2000MAJOR STREETS        -
0                           1000                          2000
-q   f0ALWAI          I                                                                  METERS



