                     Document of
                   The World Bank


                                                 Report No: 69600 v1




                RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                        ON A

           PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                           OF
      PAKISTAN: PUNJAB EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
                          AND
PAKISTAN: PUNJAB EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT ADDITIONAL
                      FINANCING
                        CREDITS
                       June 6, 2009


                       TO THE

            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN


                     May 15, 2012
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



CIDA              Canadian International Development Agency
DfID              United Kingdom’s Department for International Development
DLI               Disbursement Linked Indicator
GoPunjab          Government of Punjab
PDO               Project Development Objective
PESP              Punjab Education Sector Project
PESP AF           Punjab Education Sector Project Additional Financing
PESP II           Second Punjab Education Sector Project
PMIU              Program Monitoring and Implementation Unit
SED               School Education Department
TA                Technical Assistance




            Regional Vice President:        Isabel Guerrero
                   Country Director:        Rachid Benmessaoud
           Sector Manager / Director:       Amit Dar
                  Task Team Leader:         Huma Ali Waheed




                                        2
                                    PAKISTAN
                    PAKISTAN: PUNJAB EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
                                      P102608
                                    CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                   Page
A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B.   PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 4
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 5




                                                                  3
    PAKISTAN: PUNJAB EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT AND ADDITIONAL
                           FINANCING

                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

A. SUMMARY

1.      Major proposed changes include (i) reallocation of unutilized funds from the
Technical Assistance Component (Component 2) of the Punjab Education Sector Project
(PESP) to the Program Financing Component (Component 1); and (ii) cancellation of one
half of the amount allocated for the disbursement linked indicator (DLI) for upgradation
of schools given that the (sub)target for upgrading schools from the primary to middle
levels has not been achieved. The latter applies to both PESP and PESP Additional
Financing (PESP AF).

B. PROJECT STATUS

2.      Overall progress toward achievement of the development objectives (PDO) of the
project and implementation of project activities has been moderately satisfactory.
Although the majority of PDO indicators set for the project are on track, progress in
achievement of one important target related to increase in net enrollment rate at the
primary level1 was significantly behind target in FY2010/11. However, recent household
surveys commissioned by development partners show improvements in student
participation in the current fiscal year which bodes well for achievement of end of project
targets2.

3.      Progress in implementation of the majority of reform program activities has been
satisfactory. Disbursements under Component 1 (results based financing component) of
the project (accounting for 90% of total credit proceeds) are contingent on achievement
of pre-specified results indicators (referred to as DLIs) agreed with the Government of
Punjab (GoPunjab). Of the ten DLIs agreed with the GoPunjab for FY2010/11, eight
were achieved satisfactorily by June 2011. Targets set for two DLIs, related to provision
of basic facilities to schools and upgradation of schools, faced serious delays. Based on
the latest assessment of implementation progress3, the target related to upgradation of
schools has only partially been met while the target for provision of basic facilities has
been achieved. Meanwhile, the reform activities that did not have any disbursements
linked to them in the current financial year have remained on track and/or scaled up in
some cases4.


1
  The primary source of data on indicators is the Pakistan's Social and Living Standards Measurement
(PSLM) survey, a large-scale, representative household sample survey conducted by the Pakistan Bureau of
Statistics (PBS), the country’s official statistical organization, which serves as the main data source of the
government to measure progress towards the 2015 Millennium Development Goals.
2
  UK Department for International Development (DfID) commissioned household survey conducted by
Nielsen Inc., and representative at the district level is showing significant increases in child school
participation.
3
  A joint World Bank, DfID and CIDA team conducted an assessment of implementation progress in
February/March. Findings are documented in the Aide Memoire dated April 20, 2012.
4
  Details in the Aide Memoire dated April 20, 2012.
                                                      4
4.       Disbursements under the technical assistance (TA) component, however, have
been slow. There were delays by the implementing agency in executing the TA
component principally due to inexperience with Bank procurement guidelines and the
early lack of appreciation for the need to synchronize activities supported by the TA with
the activities supported by the DLIs. The cumbersome procedures of the government and
frequent changes in government officers further delayed the contracting of large
packages. The implementing agency is now more familiar with the Bank’s procurement
guidelines and procedures. Further, the effective use of TA (albeit contracted with delay)
to strengthen the human resource and technical capacity of the Program Monitoring and
Implementation Unit (PMIU) and the School Education Department (SED) and its
subdepartments and carry out assessments in the field has demonstrated to GoPunjab the
critical role that TA performs.

5.     The Second Punjab Education Sector Project (PESP II) 5 was recently approved
and will continue to support the government’s education reform program, including
through providing financing for technical assistance. The TA firms contracted under
PESP will continue to be financed by PESP II as agreed with the GoPunjab.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

       Financing

6.      Reallocations: The GoPunjab is proposing reallocation of the unused portion of
the TA component to Component 1 of the project given that the TA component of the
recently approved PESP II will finance the same set of activities and in some cases, the
same contracts for ongoing technical assistance to the education sector reform program.
The reallocation is being requested by the GoPunjab to provide liquidity to meet critical
education sector expenditures in the current financial year, specifically for the public
private partnership (PPP) program which has been scaled up significantly6. FY2011/12
was essentially a gap year with respect to financing from Development Partners for the
education sector in the province; PESP financed eligible expenditures against
achievement of DLIs in FY2010/11 and PESP II will provide financing from FY2012/13
to FY2014/15. The ongoing fiscal constraints faced by the province and the gap in
development partner financing has made expansion of successful education reform
programs, specifically the PPP program, challenging in the current financial year. The
reallocation will facilitate the planned expansion of these programs.

7.      This reallocation will effectively result in increase in the value of all DLIs
supported by PESP. At appraisal, all DLIs were priced equally at USD 11.33 million
each. As a result of this reallocation the price per DLI will go up to USD 11.59 million
(approx). The reallocation amount is proposed to be distributed equally amongst all DLIs
under the project to acknowledge the level of effort required on the implementing
agency’s part to achieve each of the DLIs. This would also maintain the original design
of the project which valued achievement of each of the DLI targets equally. The amounts
from category 2 will thus be reallocated to categories 1(a), 1(c) and 1(e). As in the
5
 PESP II was approved by the Board on April 26, 2012.
6
 Allocations for the PPP program, implemented by the Punjab Education Foundation, were increased from
PKR 4.5 billion in FY2010/11 to PKR 6.5 billion in FY2011/12.
                                                  5
original project design, disbursements will be made against DLIs achieved to date and
withheld for those for which targets have not been met.

Category of Expenditure                 Allocation                % of Financing
 Current       Revised           Current         Revised        Current     Revised
    2             2              SDR 6.7        SDR 1.6          3%           1%
                                  million        million

8.       Cancellations: As outlined in paragraph 3 above, under the results based
financing component (Component 1) of the project, eight of ten DLIs agreed with the
government for FY10/11 were achieved by June 2011. Consequently, US$ 112.3 million
linked to achievement of these eight DLIs were disbursed in FY2010/11 under PESP and
PESP AF. Given that all the DLIs financed by Component 1 of the project are equally
priced, 20% of the total disbursements for FY10/11, equivalent to US$24 million and
US$ 9.5 million (approx) under PESP and PESP AF respectively, were withheld due to
non-achievement of the two DLIs related to school upgradation and provision of missing
facilities. The government has since achieved the target related to provision of missing
facilities. With respect to the DLI related to upgradation of schools, the (sub-)target for
upgrading schools from middle to high has been achieved while the (sub-)target for
upgrading schools from primary to middle will not be met within the life of the project.
Only partial disbursement has thus been authorized against this DLI, equal to half the
value of the DLI. Given that the result has not been achieved, the remaining allocation for
this DLI (approximately USD 8.1 million) is proposed to be canceled.

      Covenants

9.      Changes to two project covenants are being proposed in light of developments
during project implementation. The first, related to establishment of a teacher
accreditation and licensing body is being proposed to be dropped. There was a lack of
clarity on the role of the federal level accreditation body for setting teaching standards
versus the role of the provincial government after the 18th amendment during project
implementation. In additional, taking account of political difficulties of introducing
teacher licensing, this activity has been restructured and included in the follow-on
project. Learning from the lessons of the first project, the second project will focus on
setting up the policy framework of a certification system for teachers in the province
using a highly collaborative process rather than an accreditation system. The project will
also stop at submitting a draft law for enactment and not require establishment of a body
since this would require an Act from the provincial parliament, whose decision the
implementing entity cannot be held responsible for.

10.      Second, the GoPunjab is requesting changing the scope of the guidelines for
school construction that are under development given the GoPunjab’s shifting focus from
new infrastructure development to consolidation and improvement of existing
infrastructure. GoPunjab does not envisage building any new schools over the medium
term, rather it is focusing on improving its existing facilities through providing more
operational and maintenance costs to schools and ensuring all schools have basic
facilities available to them. For more effective use of these additional allocations to
schools, the government proposes changing the terms of reference for the activity to

                                            6
focus on infrastructure improvement rather than new school design and develop the
guidelines with School Councils and head teachers/school cluster administrators as the
primary audience for the guidelines as opposed to the civil works department as
envisaged earlier. The team endorses this change in focus and continued support to this
activity under the technical assistance component of PESP II. The current contract will be
carried over for financing under PESP II as well. Accordingly, it is proposed that the
legal covenant providing of the preparation of a design and execution manual for the
construction and/or rehabilitation of schools be removed from the Project Agreement of
PESP I.




                                            7
