Pakistan: Increasing Access and Quality through Education Reforms in Punjab

                                                                                                     93478
                                                                                                     May 7, 2012




    Pakistan: Increasing Access and Quality through Education Reforms in
    Punjab


Overview
The World Bank is working with the Government of Punjab in Pakistan to improve education
for school children through a range of initiatives, from cash stipends, low-cost private schools
to more effective school councils. The Bank’s Punjab Education Sector Project helps provide
stipends to 380,000 female students in grades 6-8, free textbooks to all students in public
schools, improved access to quality education for over 857,096 students – more than half of
them are girls – in 1,768 low cost private schools, as well as capacity support to 54,000 school
councils.


Challenge
Pakistan is ranked 145 out of 187 countries in
the Human Development Index. The country’s
performance in education has generally been
poor in absolute terms, relative to other
countries in South Asia, and relative to other
developing countries at its level of per capita
income. Given the present trend, United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) reports that the
country is unlikely to meet the Millennium
Development Goal (MDG) of universal primary
education by 2015. Standard education               MORE
indicators in Punjab tend to be comparable or          Uplifting Flood Affected Lives in Pakistan
slightly higher than those of other provinces, the     Pakistan Sindh Education Reforms
edge for Punjab largely appearing with respect
to girls. Weaknesses in planning, budgeting and
expenditure management within the sector have
seriously undermined the government of Punjab’s ability to           More Results
make significant progress towards the MDGs.
 


                                                                        92 %
Approach
The Punjab Education Sector Project promoted and
supported government actions to introduce, strengthen, and              female to male primary net
ensure the running of institutions and systems. The project             enrollment
has laid the foundations for one of the most robust,
streamlined, and effective monitoring systems in the country,
with data coming from an annual school census as well as a
third-party monitoring system outside of the education
department. Coupled with systematic evaluation of student                   857,096
achievement through universal assessments for grades 5                      students benefitting from
and 8 by the Punjab Examination Commission, these                           support
integrated databases provide significant insights for targeting
interventions to address school-level gaps in participation
and achievement.                                                           MORE INFORMATION
The project’s innovative, results-based design, specifically                 Punjab Education Sector Reform
the use of Disbursement Linked Indicators (DLIs) and                         Program
covenants, has aided the provincial government in focusing
                                                                             Pakistan Blog Entries
on and satisfactorily achieving the majority of agreed
implementation progress and performance targets.                             Country Website

                                                                             Connect with us on Facebook
Results                                                                      Talk to us on Twitter
The Punjab Education Sector Project, which is focused on
strengthening institutional capacity and governance in the
sector, has helped to support improvements in key
performance indicators.
       The ratio of female-male primary net enrollment in rural areas has increased from 89 percent to 92
       percent from 2006-07 to 2010-11.
       Foundation-Assisted Schools of Punjab Education Foundation have expanded from 18 to 29 program
       districts in the province, reaching 857,096 children in 2011 from 576,669 children in 2008.
       Impact evaluation results for Foundation-Assisted Schools show that the program has raised enrollment
       by 40 percent and student achievement by 0.3-0.5 standard deviations within two years, roughly
       contributing to one-to-two additional years of learning at school.
       54,000 School councils have received annual grants and capacity building support, since 2009, to
       improve and monitor school performance.

Voices


     Since studying at this school, the school building has improved
   remarkably. The teachers now come to school regularly and so
   do we.  
                      — Akbar, Primary School Student in Rural Punjab


 Map
 Click to see project locations mapped:




Bank Contribution
The Bank provides financial and technical support to Punjab’s Education Sector Reform
Program through a US$350-million credit from the International Development Association (IDA),
with disbursements linked to fulfillment of at least eight of the 10 agreed disbursement linked
indicators (DLIs). A US$10-million technical assistance component was included in the project
that financed the project’s essential capacity-building needs. IDA also provided an additional
US$50 million in 2011 in response to financial requirements in the aftermath of the floods in
2010.


Partners
World Bank support to the Government of Punjab was supplemented by parallel financing by
the UK’s Department for International Development (DfID). Of the approximately US$3.35
billion total program cost, the Punjab government contributed around US$3.0 billion, IDA about
US$350 million, and DfID about US$67 million equivalent.

Toward the Future
With a target school-aged population of over 12 million children, of who 30 percent remain out
of school and with seemingly low levels of learning in school, continuation of support to the
government’s reform program is critical. Coordinated support from the Bank, DfID and
Canadian International Development Agency worth US$350 million, US$200 million, and US$20
million respectively, is anticipated over the next phase of reforms that will target school-specific
interventions to increase participation and quality of learning.
