Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9562
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1368-ZIM)
MAY 17, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department VI
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                 Zimbabwe Dollars (Z$)
Rate at Appraisal (April 1983)                US$1  =  Z$0.92
Rate at Completion (March 31, 1989)           US$1  =  Z$2.00
ABBREVIATION4S
AFC          -     Agricultural Finance Cooperation
AGRITEX      -     Agricultural, Technical and Exctension Services
ACINA        -     Australian  Council  for  International  Agricultural
Research
ADAB         -     Australian Development Aid Bureau
CAs          -     Communal Areas
CAFs         -     Communal Area Farmers Areas
CFD          -     Commercial Forestry Division
CONEX        -     Department of Conservation and Extension
DCA          -     Development Credit Agreement
DEVAG        -     Department of Agricultural Development
DFO          -     District Forest Officers
DNR          -     Department of Natural Resources
FA           -     Forestry Assistant
FC           -     Forestrv Commission
GOZ          -     Governiment of Zimbabwe
ICRAF        -     International Council for Research in Agroforestry
MIED         -     Ministry of Industrv and Energy Development
MNRT         -     Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
"tGO's       -     Non-Government Organizations
NRB          -     National Resources Board
PCC          -     Project Coordinating Committee
RAP          -     Rural Afforestation Project
RBZ          -     Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
SFD          -     State Forestry Division
ZFC          -     Zimbabwe Forestry College
FISCAL YEAR
Goverrment:        July 1 - June 30
FC:        July 1. - June 30



FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WashingIon. DC 204:3
uSA
Olice nl OItetrntw-taI
May 17, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Zimbabwe
Rural Afforestation Project (Credit 1368-ZIMl
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report
entitled   "Project   Completion  Report  on  Zimbabwe   -  Rural
Afforestation Project (Credit 1368-ZIM)" prepared by the Africa
Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
'~~
Attachment
This document hs a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their ofilcial duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authofzi tion.



FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETrON REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1368-ZIM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE .     .............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................-------------.iii
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ......                       1
Project Identity .....................               .       ..              1
Background .      .........................................   .              1
Pftje.t Objectives and Component           .....................             4
Proje.-  Design and Organization ...................       ...               5
Project Implemcntation          ...............................              8
Project Results .        ......................................             12
Evaluation of Bank Performance ............       ...     ........          14
Borrower Performance ........        .........................              17
Findings and Lessons Learned ......         ...................             17
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
General      ..............................................                 19
Project Concept and Design ......         .....................             19
Government of Zimbabwe's Performance ..............        ...              20
World Bank Performance .......         ........................             21
Findings and Lessons Learned ......         ...................             21
Part III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ....................
Table 1  Related Bank Loans/Credits .......... ........                     22
Table 2  Project Timetable ......         .....................             23
Table 3  Credit Disbursements ......          ..................            23
Table 4  Project Implementation ...................        ...              24
Table 5  Project Costs and Financing ..............        ...              26
Table 6  Project Results .......         ......................             29
Table 7  Status of Covenants ......         ...................             32
Table 8  Use of Bank Resources ......         .................             34
ANNEX I      ..............................................                 35
Tables
1.   Forestry Commission Nursery Production  .......                       35
2.   Urban and Rural Block Plantations    . .** *,...   ,                   37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page
3.   Support   Fund   ......................... . .... ..... ,    38
4.   Total Project Costs in current term  3*9.''.****3
5.   Totsl Project Costs  * ..39.. . * * *    .*.....*...        39
6.   Project Disbursements by Expenditure Category
Statement of Project Disbursements in SDRs  ........       40
7.   Procurement of Vehicles  ..............41
8.   Technical Assistance                                        42
9.   Number of posts established under the Project  ......    44
10.  Courses Given/Organized by R.A.P.                           45
11.  Financial Anaylysis of Nursery Program                      50
Charts
1.   Organizational Structure of the Forestry
Commission's State Forestry Division (SFD)                51
2.   Organizational Structure of State Forestry
Commission  ..........                  ,,,,, ........   52
Maps
IBRD No. 16755 Zimbabwe Natural Regions
IBRD No. 16587 Zimbabwe Project Areas



- i r
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Cr. 1368-ZIM
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) foi the Rural
Afforestation Project in Zimbabwe, for which Credit 1368-ZIM in the amount
of US$7.3 million was approved on August 8, 1983. The Credit was closed on
March 31, 1989, one year behind schedule. It was 952 dis3ursed and the
last disbursement was on September 30, 1989.
2.       This PCR was jointly prepared by staff from the Africa Technical
Agriculture Division and the Agriculture Operations Division for Southern
Africa, with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
3.        This PCR is based on Project Preparation Feasibility Studies;
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit Agreement; Supervision
Reports; the Borrower's Progress Reports; correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower; internal Bank Memoranda; and the May, 1987 dratt rAOlCP
PCR.



- 11.1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
CR. 1368 - ZIM
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Origir
i.        The Rural Afforestation Project was the third Bank Credit for
agriculture in Zimbabwe with a Credit amount of US$7.3 million. The
project was envisaged as the first phase of a long-term rural afforestation
program directed at increasing the fuelwood and pole wood supply in the
communal areas. Because of the lack of substantial institutional
experience with rural afforestation in Zimbabwe, this activity was designed
as a pilot project to allow the Forestry Commission (FC) to test a number
of approaches to rural afforestation. Preparation of the project took
place between 1979 - 1983. The Credit was approved in May, 1983.
Initial Components
ii.       The 5 year project costing US$ 10.6 million comprised the
following componentst a) establishment of 48 Forestry Commission communal
area nurseries which were to produce at full capacity 100,000 seedlings
each; b) establishment of 9 block plantations (1,400 ha total); c)
institutional strengthenirg of the FC in rural afforestation including a
staff training program, the development of a Rural Afforestation Division
(RAD) including an extension program and monitoring and evaluation unit.
and investments in civil works, vehicles and equipment; d) implementation
of studies including an attitude and practices survey of farmers in tree
deficit areas and a national forest/woodland resource inventory and map; e)
an applied agroforestry research program.
Implementation
iii.       The FC, a parastatal founded in 1954 and primarily an
industrial timber management operation functioning as a semi-autonomous
institution under the nominal control of the Ministry of Natural Resources
and Tourism (MNRT), was responsible for the implementation and overall
coordination of the project.
iv.       Racial and political problems, the absence of a Rural Forestry
and Indigenous Forest Management Division and trained staff in the FC, weak
institutional communications and collaboration with key GOZ departments
including finance and extension, unfamiliarity with World Bank procurement



iv -
and disbursement procedures hampered the project implementation from the
outset and led to significant delays. Until March 1984 all project
activities were iinanced wholly out of FC profits on a greatly reduced
scale.
v.         In late 1985, two and a half years after project approval, a
Bank mission conducted a mid-term review and a series of GOZ/Bank Project
Management .eminars resulted in important changes which included: (a) the
replacement of the project manager; (b) reorganization of the Rural
Afforestation Division (RAD); (c) staff training in rural afforestation as
well as in procurement and disbursement; (d) scaling down the block
plantation component; (e) increasing the Support Fund allocation; (f) a
review of the woodlot program and the Monitoring and Evaluation Program;
(f) and the redesign of the research program. Corrective actions were taken
which resulted greater school and community participation in tree growing
competitions, increased rate of disbursement of project funds, and an
increase in the number of FC nurseries.
Results
vi.       As a project with a strong institutional support orientation,
project investments could be judged to have been reasonably succossful. In
spite of a number of ongoing institutional problems, the RAD, now renamed
the State Forest Division (SFD), has been staffed with 114 enthusiastic and
dedicated professionals including 9 senior staff and 13 district level
staff. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the Planning Division however
remains unstaffed and inoperative. Out of the 1400 ha of block plantations,
only 700 ha were established. Yields in unirrigated plantations are
expected to be approximately 2-5 m3/ha per year versus the appraisal target
of 10-15 m3. Total number of FC nurseries at the end of the project period
was 79 versus 48 in the SAR. The increase in number included
rehabilitation of 31 existing FC nurseries. Seedling production targets
were reached. The high overhead costs to the FC of these centralized
nurseries compared with low cost District level nurseries including those
operated by schools, individuals and community groups has led the FC toward
a policy of handing over the majority of their nurseries to District
Administrators.
vii.      Approaches supported by the project which can be judged to have
been effective, both in terms of cost-effectiveness and in terms of their
impact on encouraging people to plant trees, include: a) the Support Fund
(an in-kind facility to provide seeds and polythene pots to small farmers,
groups, and community nurseries); b) a schools and community Tree Growing
Competition; c) forestry field days and a National Tree Planting Day.
However, as a mechanism for testing a range of different approaches to
rural afforestation intended to meet the tree-based needs of fanmers in
Communal Areas, the project accomplishnents fell short of appraisal
expectations.



Sustainability
viii.     Given the pilot nature of this project and the mixed results
summarized above, it is too earlv to make any meaningful assumptions about
project sustainability. The fact that a significant improvement has been
achieved in strengthening the potential of the FC to implement rural
afforestation programs has been a positive step towards ensuring sustained
technical assistance to farmers tree planting programs.
ix.       The sustainability of FC's centralized nursery operations is
certainly questionable. Woodlot planting established from FC centralized
nursery stock cost about US$675-US$810 versus USS 272 for ioodlots
established from seedlings grown by farmers/schools receiving Support Fund
resources. The follow on project (Zimbabwe Forest Resource Management and
Development Project) will provide an opportunity to more effectively
monitor and evaluate farmer and community interest to GOZ's effort to
improve the management and productivity of rural forest resources.
Findings and Lessons Learned
X.        The main lessons learned from this experience are the following:
(a) it should have been recognized at appraisal that the
industrial orientation of the Forestry Lepartment
raised serious institutional questions concerning the
FC's ability to implement a rural forestry project.
Ideally, a State Forestry Division staffed with
competently trained people and a well defined
extension program should have been in place before a
rural forestry resource management program was
implemented;
(b) investment in woodlots for production of fuelwood
alone was not justified. The majority of farmers
either secure fuelvood free or at low cost from
indigenous woodlands or as a by product from farm
trees that produce a combination of products (eg
poles, fruit, timber). From a financial perspective,
prices for fuelvood are too low to justify a major
program of State owned fuelvood woodlots;
(c) well in advance of appratsal, a survey should have
been conducted to understand farmer and community
attitudes to indigenous forest management and tree
planting. In common with Bank experience elsewhere,
there remains a tendency in both Bank and Government
approaches to rural forestry strategies,to
underestimate the extent to which local communities
and small farmers are already aware of the need for
protection of indigenous woodlands and are
spontaneously taking up tree planting. The emphasis



- vi -
needed to be more small scale decentralized nurseries
and on distribution of low cost improved seeds for
farmers to plant on their own land, and on community
involvement in indigenous woodland management;
(d) there should have been clearer definition of procedures for
ensuring effective collaboration between FC and
AGRITEX extension staff;
(e) lack of support for research of relevance to rural
afforestation was a weakness because AGRITEX and FC
did not have access to information about possible
effective approaches including trees in farming
systems and indigenous forest management and were
therefore handicapped in devising appropriate research
programs;
(f) supervisicn missions, although highlighting the main
problems, failed to follow-up on critical measures for
addressing SFD's failure to establish an eZfective
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and to ensure that the
National Forest Inventory and Slap were produced. A
current inventory of the national forest/woodland
resources  on commercial and communal lands and a well
designed and effectively implemented monitoring and
evaluation program are essential to the effective
implementation of future projects addressing forestry,
natural resource management and wildlife projects.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
Rural Afforestation Project
(Credit 1368 - ZIH)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW PROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name                  : Rural Afforestation Project
Credit Number         : 1368 - ZIM
RVP Unit              s AF6AG
Country               : Zimbabwe
Sector                : Agriculture
Subsector             : Forestry
2. Background
2.01      Agriculture Sector.  Although agriculture and forestry accounted
for less than 13 percent of Zimbabwe's GDP in 1986, compared to
manufacturing and mining which contributed 31 percent, they are the
backbone of the Zimbabwean economy. The agriculture sector provides the
highest employment of any sector, with at least 70 percent of all families
deriving some income frota agriculture and it accounts for 40 percent of GOZ
exports. Zimbabwe's economy however is dualistic in character with
substantial differences in income and wealth between sectors and
populations and between sectors within agriculture. Patterns of
agricultural land-use reflect this dualistic nature of the Zimbabwean
economy. The majority of the commercial activity comes from the
comparatively small percentagz of farmers occupying the most arable lands
(eg large scale, mainly European farmers).
Comunual and Commercial Land
2.02       Communal Areas (CAs), the target area of the Rural
Afforestation Project (RAP), comprise 16.3 million ha of generally marginal
lands in Regions III, IV, and V (Map - Natural Regions) and are populated
by approximately 800,000 African families (or 94 percent of farm
households). Land is held under communal or customary tenure. There are
an additional 8,500 families operating small scale farms on approximately
1.4 million ha under tenancy or freehold titles. Commercial areas cover
another 15 million ha of freehold, are situated mostly in the ecologically
high potential zones (Regions I and II), and support the farming activities
of approximately 6,000 families of European origin. Approximately 30,000
families have been settled under the GOZ's resettlement program on 2.6
million ha of land previously occupied by commercial farmers.



-2
2.03      "Commercial" and "communal" agriculture play different roles in
the economy. Commercial Areas comprise most of the better quality land on
which high yields and large surpluses for domestic consumption and export
have been achieved. The commercial farmers account for about 65 percent of
agriculture gross domestic production. Commiunal Areas, on the other hand,
generate overall only 35 percent of total agriculture gross domestic
production. During 1980-86 however, the small holders have made remarkable
progress. They increased their contribution to marketed maize from 10 to
40Z and for cotton production from 72 to 532.
2.04      Agriculture Policy.  Since Independence in 1980, the Government
has been faced with the twin challenge of sustaining agricultural growth
while at the same time raising the incomes and standards of living of
smallholding families. Government has made a commitment to ensure that
adequate incentives and resources are available to maintain the
productivity of farmers in Communal and Commercial Areas alike and to
increase the availability of resources and services to communal farmers.
The provision of services to farmers in Communal Areas is the chief
priority of the Department of Agricultural, Technical, and Extension
Services (AGRITEX) of the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, and Rural
Resettlement. AGRITEX is the primary vehicle in Zimbabwe for providing on-
farm extension services.
2.05      Forestry Subsector.  Zimbabwe's f rests cover about 23 million
ha or 59 percent of the country's total land area. About 10 million ha of
the forest area is open indigenous woodland located in the CAs. The
protected forest areas and forest reserves account for about 6 million ha
and include approximately 100,530 ha of industrial plantations (pine and
eucalyptus). Approximately two-thirds of these plantations are privately
owned and managed, while the balance is state owned and managed by the
Forestry Commission (FC). The remaining 7 million ha of indigenous woodland
are owned by large scale farmers.
2.06      Indiaenous Forests.  Much of the indigenous forest depletion in
the country occurs in the CAs where the main cause of deforestation is
clearing land for agriculture. Recent estimates suggest that the ave.age
annual conversion of woodland for agr.'.culture increased from 55,000 ha
during 1963-1973 to 84,000 ha during 1976-1984. The forest growing stock
loss is estimated to have risen from 1.4 million m3 per annum during 1963-
1973 to approximately 2.2 million m3 per annum during 1974-1984. In
general, the indigenous savannah woodlands in the CA's have a low timber
stocking density, provide poor quality timber, and are slow to regenerate.
Demand for Forest Products in Communal Areas
2.07      Demands for forest products in CAs are substantial.  Total
annual fuelwood demands are estimated to be around 13 millon cubic meters.
Although there are no shortages of fuelwood at the national level,
shortages do occur in some districts. Earlier reports alleged that severe
shortages were being encountered in 27 districts, moderate shortages were
being encountered in 6 districts, minor shortages were being encountered in
6 districts, and no shortages were immediately evident in 19 districts.



-3-
2.08      Whiil  it is clear that the area under indigenous woodland in CAs
has significantly declined over the last decade, common perceptions of the
causes and impacts of this deforestation have been misleading. There has
been a tendency in past reports (including the Bank's own appraisal report)
to attribute forest destruction to over harvesting of fuelwood. In
practice, land clearing for agriculture and burning of vegetation to
encourage new grass growth for grazing are probably the more significant
causes of deforestation. Given increasing population pressure, much of this
conversion of savannah woodland to agriculture is a logical shift in land
use.
Forest Institutions
2.09      The Forestry Commission (FC) was established in 1954, as a
parastatal organization, at which time it subsumed the forestry
responsibilities from the Department of Forestry in the Ministry of
Agriculture. Under the Forestry Act of 1949, the FC was accorded the
mandate to implement the GOZ's forestry strategy which included the
administration of State forests, the conservation of timber resources, and
the regulation and control of forest products. It is classified as a
revenue earning parastatal organization and is wholly owned by GOZ. As a
statutory body, it is a semi-autonomous institution under the nominal
control of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism.
2.10      Most of the FC's activities have centered on establishing,
maintaining, and exploiting softwood plantations in the Eastern Districts,
and managing and protecting indigenous forest resources under its control
in Northwestern Matabeleland and the Hidlands. The FC has been a
competently managed and financially stable organization within the
framework of its commercial and conservation activities.
2.11      In 1982 the FC underwent a major reorganization.  As a response
to Government's high priority on more broadly-based rural development, the
Rural Afforestation Division (RAD) was created to manage, develop and
utilize forests in the Communal Areas. Between 1982 and 1987 when the RAD
was replaced by the State Forestry Division (SFD), the RAD encountered
major difficulties including poor management, inequalities in compensation
and allowances compared with the rest of the FC, lack of career advancement
opportunities, and serious deterioration in staff morale. Some of the
problems were clearly the outcome of the racial and professional
integration of an institution which, before Independence, had been
predominantly European and oriented towards commercial forestry. These
institutional problems heavily influenced the Rural Afforestation Project's
(RAP) outcome.
2.12       In 1987 under the RAP, the FC further reorganized itself and
combined the responsibilities of the Rural Afforestation Division with the
responsibilities for the management of indigenous forestc and renamed this
unit the State Forestry Division (Chart 1). At present the FC has two main
Operational Divisions (State Forestry and Commercial Forestry) and two
Supporting Divisions, Research and Administration (Chart 2).



-4-
3.   Prolect Objectives and Components
3.01 Obiectivess The project aimed to:
(i) develop people's awareness of the need for
afforestation and encourage farmers particularly in
CAU to participate in tree plantings
(ii) increase supplies of fuelvood and poles, conserve
indigenous wood resources, bring about the more
efficient use of wood as fuel and as building
materials, and to arrest the physical deterioration of
the CAs;
(iii) promote tree planting and management as an integral part
of farm activities, including the raising of
livestock.
3.02      Because of the lack of substantial institutional experience with
rural afforestation in Zimbabwe, the activity was designed as a pilot
project to allow the Rural Afforestation Division of the FC the flexibility
to 'test a number of approaches to rural afforestation and to evaluate the
people's responses to these, carry out socio-economic studies, to implement
a campaign to increase public awareness of the fuelwood problem, closely
monitor and evaluate all field activities, and emphasize improvement of the
institutional framework in Government to implement a rural afforestation
program."
3.03 Components: The project comprised the following componentss
ti) institutional development support to the FC for rural
afforestation including a comprehensive staff training
program, the development of appropriate forestry
extension, publicity, and education services, and
investments in infrastructure, vehicles, and
equipment;
(ii) support for an FC Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to
evaluate farmers' attitudes and activities in tree
planting, and to monitor and evaluate the
effectiveness of rural afforestation activities by the
FC and AGRITEX;
(iii) establishment and management by the FC of 48 nurseries
(with adjacent demonstration woodlots) in 16 out of 52
districts in the country producing up to 100,000
seedlings each per year;
(iv) establishment and operation of 9 block plantations
(1,400 ha total) close to major population centers (4
in communal areas and 5 in urban centers);



- 5 -
(v) establishment of a Forestry Support Fund providing
assistance to individuals or groups interested in
starting nurseries or woodlots;
(vi) implementation of studies/surveys including an
attitude and practices survey of farmers in tree
deficit areas, a forest resource survey, wood energy
utilization study, a review of forest policy, and
prefeasibility study of the next phase of the
afforestation program;
(vii) development of an applied agroforestry research program
including species trials and seed orchards.
4.   Project Design and Organization
Project Identification
4.01.     The 1978 Rural Development program of the Government of Zimbabwe
(Rhodesia) proposed that afforestation should be included as an aspect of
the development of Communal Areas.
4.02      The Whitsun Foundation (a non-profit development organization in
Zimbabwe) was commissioned by GOZ to prepare a Rural Afforestation Study.
The Forestry Commission and the Department of Agricultural Development
(DEVAG) which provided for essential services for the Tribal Trust Lands
contributed technical advice and detailed information. The study,
finalized in January 1979, outlined a five-year Z$12 million (US$18.8
million) project to address timber shortages in Trust Lands (now called
Communal Areas) by creating additional fuelwood resources. The project was
to support: (a) the establishment of a network of 150 nurseries to be
operated by the Forestry Commission for the production of seedlings (mainly
Eucalyptus), but also fruit, fodder, and special purpose trees for sale to
individual farmers who would be encouraged to become self-sufficient in
fuelwood and poles. Seedlings would also be available to schools,
churches, and other organizations: (b) the establishment of 10-hectare
woodlots at each nursery site to provide supplies of polts and fuelwood;
(c) the provision of specialist extension services within DEVAG to advise
and encourage farmers to plant trees and to maintain and harvest them
correctly; (d) the implementation of training programs and facilities for
nursery and woodlot managers and supervisors, specialist forest extension
staff, and general agricultural extension staff; (e) the development of an
ongoing education program to create awareness about the need for forest
conservation and for "the establishment of plantations of exotic species";
(f) the establishment of Rural Wood Energy Division to plan, manage, and
administer the project (including the extension component).
Project Preparation
4.03      A follow-up Project Preparation report was prepared by an
external consultant hired by the Bank's regional office in Nairobi to



-6-
elaborate on the Whitsun Foundation report. This report identified four
possible options for investments in the rural energy sector: the
substitution of other fuels for fuelwood; the provision of wood for
communal areas from plantations or indigenous woodland resources; the
development of central plantations in communal areas; and the promotion of
tree planting by farmers.
4.04      The report concluded, as had the Whitsun Report, that tree
planting by rural people was the most viable of these 0ptions, but noted
that there would be some potential for the establishment of small woodlots
by District Councils. The option of developing large central plantations
(either in commercial or communal areas) was rejected because of the lack
of information about woodfuel markets and because of uncertainty about the
Cxtv at to which the Government would be willing to subsidize woodfuel
production. The project proposed by the Preparation Report (a four-year
Z$17.5 million (US$25 million) project) was very similar to the project
proposed in the Whitsun Foundation's report.
4.05      Concerning project organization and management, it was proposed
that DEVAG extension agents and Forestry Commission woodlot and nursery
managers would work with Extension Assistants (Forestry) who would act as a
link between DEVAG and the Forestry Commission in the field. Extension
Assistants would have been trained as agricultural extension agents, but
would have been provided with forestry training through short courses at
the Zimbabwe College of Forestry. Technical backstopping would have been
provided by a forestry specialist in DEVAG. The responsibilities of DEVAG
and the FC seemed to have been broken down along the lines of extension
work by DEVAG and woodlot and nursery management by the FC, with
responsibilities for training shared between the two agencies.
Discussions between the GOZ and the Bank on Project Design
4.06      Subsequent discussions between the Bank and the Government
suggested the need to maintain flexibility in project design. Government
noted that poles are generally much more valuable than fuelwood and that
farmers should first be encouraged to grow poles. The Forestry Commission
expressed concern that AGRITEX (a newly organized amalgamation of DEVAG and
the Department of Conservation and Extension (CONEX) would be costly and
inefficient and would only be concerned with the agricultural extension to
the exclusion of forestry. Government also suggested that the Project
Preparation Report's proposed training budget (Z$3.9 million) was much
greater than was necessary. Finally, Government expressed concern that the
project would generate burdensome recurrent costs, and that thase would
have to be reduced if the proposal were to remain viable.
4.07      While the Preparation Report provided a useful basis for
discussions about possible project investment, it was insufficient for
Bank appraisal. The Forestry Commission therefore agreed to undertake a
more detailed project preparation to lay the groundwork for an appraisal
mission. This third preparation activity incorporated proposals from both
the Whitsun and first preparation report. Submitted to the Bank in early
May of 1982, the Forestry Commission report recommended a five year, Z$26



-7-
million (US$28 million) project with strong emphasis on establishing new FC
nurseries, demonstration woodlots and government block plantations.
Bank Appraisal
4.08      After internal review of the Forestry Commission's report, the
Bank recommended that the appraisal mission should incorporate greater
flexibility in project design, and that incentives to encourage farmers to
grow trees should be broadened. These included the establishment of a
"Support Fund" which was to be used to assist groups in meeting the cost of
initial inputs (eg fencing, seed, wheel barrowri, shovels, polythene bags,
technical advice) for woodlot and nursery establishment. It also strongly
recommended that the project should be significantly scaled down and be
clearly recognized as a pilot activity. The formation of an
Interministerial Coordinating Committee, proposed by the Forestry
Commission, was endorsed because the Project would cut across the
jurisdiction of interest of at least eight different Ministries.
4.09      It was recommended during the review process that a Baseline
Survey should provide the foundation for development of the proposed rural
afforestation program, and that investments in nursery development should
be deferred until the results of a Baseline Survey were available. Because
of some of the uncertainties surrounding the response of farmers to the
proposed intervention, the suggested Baseline Survey and the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit assumed greater importance than had been previously
envisaged. The Baseline Survey was to provide important information about
nursery and extension approaches. Annual reviews and sociological surveys,
to be carried out by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, were to provide
additional information about the effectiveness of project investments. The
intention clearly became one of building enough flexibility into the
project to enable it to develop new approaches and objectives as new
information became available.
4.10      Although the Preparation report had attempted to clarify the
role of land tenure and its relationship to tree growing, during the
appraisal and review process it was felt that there was still significant
uncertainty about how farmers would respond to interventions under
different situations of land and tree tenure and usufruct. It was
recommended that the project should prepare a range of different planting
strategies to reflect different tenure situations (particularly for
communal tenure and private tenure). There was also concern expressed
about how fuelwood grown as a result of communal woodlot development
activities would be distributed by the community.
4.11      The project was economically justified by pricing fuelwood at
the coal energy-cost equivalent price. Resultant savings in foreign
exchange would guarantee relatively high economic returns (Para. 6.08).
4.12      To summarize, the most significant results of Bank appraisal
were that the project was greatly reduced in size and scope, it was clearly
to be a pilot project to test different approaches to rural forestry and it
was concentrated much more on issues related to institutionai development.



-8-
Negotiations
4.13      During negotiations April 11-13, 1983, issues which Bank
management specifically raised were related tot (a) the establishment of a
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, and the appointment of an officer to head
it; (b) the carrying out of a Baseline Survey reviewing rural farmers'
knowledge, attitudes, and practices about tree growing as well as the
preparation of a wood energy utilization study; (c) finalization of
arrangements for procuring land for a proposed block plantations program;
and (d) accounting, auditing, procurement, and reporting arrangements.
4.14      The GOZ negotiating team expressed no substantial disagreement
with these issues and agreed to accommodate these concerns during
implementation. The extent of agreement between the negotiating team and
Bank management reflected the facts that the project was, for the most
part, locally prepared and that it had undergone a lengthy internal review
process within the Bank. No principal amendments were made to the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) as a result of negotiations. The
project was approved by the Bank's Board on May 17, 1983.
5. Project Implementation
5.01      Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up: Apart from the
normally required conditions of effectiveness (i.e. the legal opinion),
there were no additional conditions which had to be fulfilled before the
project was declared effective.  The DCA was signed on August 8, 1983, and
the project was declared effective 5 weeks later on September 14, 1983.
5.02      Financing: Until March 1984, all project activities were
financed wholly out of FC profits on a greatly reduced scale. This was
despite assurances from Treasury in September, 1983 that the FC would be
paid in advance for expenditures to be incurred by the project during the
second quarter of FY 1983/84, and that it would be allocated sufficient
funds for the remainder of the fiscal year. Even after Treasury had agreed
to disburse funds to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (MNRT),
there seems to have been a failure by MNRT to request the needed funds for
the FC; consequently no disbursements were made. By October, 1984, payments
to the FC were Z$1.5 million in arrears. The situation was corrected in
October, 1984 and the Project Accountant was given clear responsibility for
following up on disbursements with both MNRT and Treasury.
5.03      Procurement and Disbursements: The lack of familiarity with Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures, coupled with Project Management's
delays in making tendering and procurement decisions resulted in
significant delays during project startup. Prior to 1986, cumulative
project disbursements were seldom greater than 30 percent of appraisal
estimates. With the appointment of a new Divisional Manager and a training
workshop on procurement and disbursement in 1986 the rate of disbursements
increased so that by the time of project completion 95 percent of the
Credit had been disbursed (Table 3 of Part III).



-9-
5.04      Civil Works: Project management found during the first year of
project implementation that significant increases in the price of building
materials made the cost of new housing for the project prohibitive.
Appraisal figures for staff houses were approximately ZS 8,000 per house.
By the time bids were submitted the revised estimate was about Z$ 20,000;
IDA believed these costs were much too high and agreed to reimburse
expenditures up to Z$ 15,000 per building. The FC decided to recruit local
people to work from their houses. This resulted in the reduction of staff
house construction from the SAR targce of 90 to actual construction of 45
houses (ANNEX I, Table 5).
Restructuring of FC and Staffing of SFD
5.05      The main institutional change envisaged under the project was
the creation of a new Rural Afforestation Division (RAD) within the FC.  In
this area the project implementation experience was quite positive but only
after some early management problems had been overcome. Following a Bank
mid-term review, and three in-house workshops (BanklGOZ organized) held in
1985, major senior staff changes and more specific guidelines relating to
staff development/training and rural extension needs led to a significant
improvement in staff morale and performance. In 1987, the FC further
reorganized itself and combined the responsibilities of the RAD with the
responsibility for the management of indigenous forests and renamed this
unit the State Forestry Division (Chart 1). At this time the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (M&E) was replaced by a Planning Unit which included M&E.
At project completion, the SFD had a staff of 114 including 9 senior staff
and 13 district field managers (ANNEX I Table 9).
5.06      Despite these positive achievements, there remained at the end
of the project period inherent institutional problems such as an
inadequately staffed operational Planning Unit and a weak Monitoring and
Evaluation program.
5.07       Extension.  The project had originally envisaged that AGRITEX
would play a key role in training FC staff in extension approaches.
AGRITEX did work effectively with the FC on training programs (ANNEX I,
Table 10). At the extension level however, coordination with AGRITEX
remained very weak throughout the project, partly because of inadequate
resources allocated for the work, but also because of lack of clearly
defined guidelines for collaboration between forestry and agricultural
extension staff.
5.08      Nursery Establishment and Seedling Production.  Compared with
the appraisal target of 48 nurseries in 16 districts, SFD built 38 new
nurseries during the project period and managed a total of 79 rural
nurseries. The original SAR target to produce 4.8 million seedlings a year
at full development was achieved (although from a larger number of
nurseries than originally estimated - ANNEX I Table 1). Of the total
seedling production of about 17 million over the six year project
disbursement period, 10 million (about sixty percent) were sold, 3 million



- 10 _
issued free or used for demonstration purposes and 2.5 million 'culledw. 11
The proportion unsold (about ten percent of total production) was
reasonable given the uncertain rainfall and planting prospects in some of
the project planting seasons.
Rural and Urban Block Plantations
5.09      Of the rural block plantations target of 1050 ha, only 188 were
established because of strong opposition by local people to FC clearing of
indigenous forest and its replacement with Eucalyptus plantations. Doubts
were raised during a project supervision mission about the financial
viability of this component (Table 4 Part III).
5.10      By contrast, the urban plantation target of 350 ha was exceeded
(523 ha planted) because of the positive response of urban councils to
providing land for tree planting (Table 4 Part III).
5.11      Support Fund.  The Support Fund provided assistance primarily to
schools.  Around 61 percent of the nurseries and 55 percent of the woodlots
which were financed by t.he Support Fund were established and operated by
schools. Around 37 percent of Support Fund nurseries and woodlots were
operated by communities or community groups. Less than two percent of
Support Fund nurseries and eight percent of the woodlots were established
and operated by individuals. The pattern of Support Fund use helped to
identify some of the strengths and weaknesses of this extension approach
(ANNEX I Table 3).
Rural Afforestation Training
5.12      The project was planned to support a comprehensive program of
training, studies and seminars for project staff. Achievements under this
component were impressive. During the project period some six hundred
short (2-5 day) Nursery Management courses were held for some 10,000
participants (including women's clubs, farmers' groups, and schools (ANNEX
I Table 10).
5.13      Whilst local courses were conducted for project staff,
communities and farmers clubs, progress in formal social forestry training
was hampered by personnel problems and the traditional commercial forestry
approaches of the Zimbabwe College of Forestry (ZCF). Towar-ds the
conclusion of the project, a Curriculum Development Committe~e was formed to
develop a revised syllabus more related to rural afforestation technical
and extension training needs. This is now being incorporated into ZCF's
teaching agenda.
Research
5.14      The research program which was envisaged during appraisal was
virtually abandoned because of insurgence activities in Matabeleland where
the research station at Chesa was located. Debilitating national drought
l/Not used because of their poor shape or vigor.



- 11 -
of 1982-84 and subsequent periods of local drought also contributed to the
demise of the research program.
5.15      A scaled down research program assisted by the Australian
Council for International Research (ACIAR) and Australian Development Aid
Bureau (ADAB) was developed in 1986/87. This research program for rural
afforestation and agroforestry included species and provenance trials,
research on resistance to termites, fertilizer trials in communal areas,
and identification of the potential utilization of indigenous trees for
agroforestry. A proposal to implement a more comprehensive agroforestry
rese.rch project supported by International Council for Research in
Agroforestry (ICRAF) was finalized during the project period.
5.1..     Special Studies.  Of the four studies to be fin nced under the
project, only the Baseline Survey of Farmers' Attitudes tcwards Tree
Planting was completed.  A proposed Review of Forestry ro.icy was not
carried out a3 GOZ was in the process of legislating the Community Land
Forest Produce Act, No 20 (1987). A proposed study of GOZ's Wood Energy
Utilization program in the Ministry of Industry and Energy Development
(MIED) was replaced  (with World Bank agreement) by a study entitled,
Patterns of Fue. food Utilization in Harare which was completed November,
1988. The Forest Resources Inventory and map remain incomplete. The
inventory data need to be digitized and maps produced at a scale of
1:1,000,000.
Information and Education
5.17      During appraisal, it had been envisaged that the project would
support a broad-based publicity and extension program. The objective was
to develop appropriate extension messages and to increase gereral awareness
about the need for trees in rural areas in coordination with AGRITEX.
Relations with AGRITEX did not develop as foreseen so the Forestry
Commission established it's own Information and Extension Unit in the SFD
staffed by three people.
5.18      The FC's Information and Education Unit developed publicity
material, coordinated radio campaigns (during 1986-88, 292 radio programs
were broadcast in Shona and Ndebele languages) and helped to coordinate the
distribution of seed packets, polythene pots, and tree planting
instructions. The program's target groups were schools, clubs, and
communities.
5.19      Other illustrations of the more general publicity activities of
the FC include 68 National Tree Planting Day ceremonies and forestry field
days in 1986, &s well as 51 district-level meetings.
6. Project Resuxlts
6.01      As a project with a strong institutional support orientation,
project investments could be judged to have been reasonably successful. In
spite of a number institutional problems, the SFD ias been staffed with
enthusiastic and dedicated professionals and is fully operational. As a



- 12 -
mechanism for testing out a range of different approaches to rural
afforestation, intended to meet the tree-based needs of farmers in Communal
Areas, the project accomplishmexLts fell somewhat short of appraisal
expectations.
6.02      Approaches supported by the project which can be judged to have
been effective, both in terms of cost-effectiveness and in terms of their
effectiveness at encouraging people to plant trees include- (a) the Support
Fund, an in-kind facility to provide seeds and polythene pots to small
farmers, groups, and community nurseries; (b) a program of involvement with
schools and communities through a Tree Growing and Tree Care Competition;
(c) and forestry field days and National Tree Planting Day activities.
6.03      Project Sustainability.  Other approaches have been less
effective and continue to raise questions about tsneir sustainability
including SFD's nursery program, which has been costly and has heavily
subsidized farmers who bought seedlings at prices substantially below cost.
Nurseries produced a smaller range of tree species (primarily eucalyptus)
than farmers wanted. The FC is de-emphasizing its nursery program in the
follow-on Forest Resources Management and Development Project and is
instead beginning to support the development by farmers and District
Councils of small, dispersed nurseries producing a wider range of species.
There is, however, no question that there remains a role for FC nurseries
but with greater emphasis on introduction of improved trees, trees which
are difficult to germinate, trees which have low survival rates or which
could be more productive by the provision of fertilizer, water and other
inputs, trees which are not commonly planted and for which seed stock is
not available. FC nurseries can also act as centers for rural forestry
extension and training.
6.04      On-farm forestry extension has been carried out by AGRITEX.  The
original intention was that the SFD would provide technical training and
backstopping to AGRITEX. The development of a strategy for on-farm
forestry extension has been hindered by the fact that AGRITEX and SFD are
staffed by personnel with widely different levels of training and
experience, and by the divergence in objectives in their respective rural
afforestation activities viz. SFD emphasis on woodlots and AGRITEX'
emphasis on agroforestry and farming systems.
6.05      The project ass tmed a very strong emphasis on woodlot
development for fuelwood and construction poles. The Baseline Survey
carried out as part of the project, however, suggested that Government's
(and the Bank's) perception of serious woodfuel shortages, and the view
that tree planting in woodlots was an appropriate response to woodfuel
scarcity, was unrealistic. Nearly 70 percent of survey respondents
believed there is currently enough fuelwood to meet household demands.
Even when extensive deforestation due to agricultural lend clearance has
taken place, people are reportedly still able to obtain preferred types of
firewood from residual woodlands. Around 60 percent of respondents had
planted trees in the last five years, principally fruit trees and trees for
shade or ornamentals. In spite of these compelling findings, the Baseline
Survey had a negligible impact on project implementation.



- 13 -
6.06      A high priority should have been developing and supporting
strategies for tree protection and management of existing indigenous
woodlands in communal areas with the objectives of meeting woodfuel,
construction material, fodder, fruit, and for other subsistence needs. This
failure to focus on the potential for improving the protection and
management of indigenous woodlands was one of the weakest points of project
objectives and design.
6.07      Monitoring and Evaluation.  One of the most significant failings
of the Project was effectively to monitor what happened to seedlings once
purchased or distributed free of charge. Were they planted? Did they
survive? What was the intended end use of the wood grown? The M&E Unit
should have been set up in such a way that survival rates could be
monitored as well as being able to test what types of plantings were being
most successful (e.g., small versus large farmers, communal planting on
village lands, school plantinigs, etc.). There is little reliable data on
farmer participant costs, project fuelwood and pole wood output (ie tree
surviva. and volume grown), on fuelwood and pole prices in the project
area, and on the extent to which lack of fuelwood has compelled people to
burn alternative sources of energy.
6.08      Economic Returns.  The economic rate of return to project
investments was estimated at appraisal to be 14 percent. The primary
benefits of the rural afforestation project which were identified in the
appraisal report included: fuelwood and poles, employment, time and labor
savings because of the increased availability of fuelwood close to the
farm, and environmental benefits. While this rate of return is
characteristic of other Bank rural afforestation investments, there is
virtually no data which could be used for evaluating it, post-proiect. The
fact that the project was a pilot activity brings into question the
approach taken in the economic analysis in the first place, as, surely,
these high rates of return could not have been expected for a range of
experimental approaches to rural afforestation (para 7.11).
6.09      Financial Returns.  Certainly in retrospect, the financial
analysis in the appraisal report was problematic as well. The lack of
clear markets for fuelwood and construction poles has suggested that the
returns estimated during appraisal were unrealistically high (as much as 26
percent for woodlots grown by schools and groups, subsidized by the Support
Fund; 18 percent for farmers receiving seedlings; and 8 percent for RAD
block plantations). There are virtually no data which would allow for an
updated analysis of financial returns to project participants. (The Gweru
block plantation data suggest, however, that financial returns to these
investments are consistently negative.) Ongoing M&E work should help to
clarify the tradeoffs to these different extension approaches.
6.10      In terms of subsidies from the public sector point of view, the
use of the Support Fund for private nursery development was the most cost-
effective project approach, resulting in costs to Government of around
ZS272 per ha of new plantings. Support Fund use for woodlot establishment,
as well as the project's FC nurseries were relatively more costly,
involving Government costs of Z$810 and ZS675 per ha of new plantings,



- 14 
respectively. Until there are better data about the extent of cost-
sharing, as well as about the quantity and value of project production, any
further financial analysis would be premature. It would be especially
useful, however, if the costs of these activities could be compared with
the costs of AGRITEX an-farm approaches.
6.11      During appraisal i' was suggested that half of the project's
recurrent annual expenditures would be met by revenues. The project's
experience, particularly with respect to the poor performance of its block
plantation program and the high level of seedling subsidies in its nursery
program, suggests that this assessment was highly optimistic.
6.13      In summary, an adequate framework and data base for evaluating
the economic and financial returns need to be developed to measure the
impact of a rural afforestation program prior to project preparation. It
calls for a more comprehensive analysis of the range of potential benefits
(eg thM role of trees and indigenous woodlands in rural areas contributing
to sustainable agriculture via soil protection. livestock yield increases,
shelterbelt effects on wind reduction and moisture retention) plus
potential production of fuelwood, fodder, fruit, building poles and timbers
and a detailed analysis of prices and markets for these products. GOZ
intends to prepare a more in-depth analysis of these benefits in the Rural
Afforestation Strategy Chapter of the forth coming Tropical Forestry Action
Plan Sector Review.
7. Evaluation of Bank's Performance
7.01      Project Design:  In retrospect, there appears to have been some
flaws in the project as originally designed by thle preparation and
appraisal missions. A key problem was the lack of understanding about the
role of trees in communal areas. The Baseline Survey, which was completed
well after the project was initiated, should have preceded project start
up. It suggested that farmers did not clearly share the perspective
expressed during appraisal that there were serious wood fuel shortages.
Even in areas of woodfuel scarcity there had been a past history of lack of
available land in communal areas for tree planting and failure to establish
a GOZ woodlot program. (Between 1930 and the later 1970s, only 4,000 ha
had been established under the Goversment woodlot program.) It remained
unclear whether or not woodlots would have an impact on the woodfuel
problem. An internal Bank review pointed out that social surveys in Halawi
had raised similar questions about Government's view of woodfuel scarcity
and the viability of woodlots to respond to these scarcities. Not until
appraisal was the input of a sociologist provided, despite the fact that
there were serious questions about land tenure and usufruct rights which
are of major importance to farmers who are considering planting trees.
7.02      With respect to the plantation component, both the
identification and preparation reports rejected the option of developing
block plantations because of the lack of information about woodfuel markets
and because of the uncertainty about the extent to which Governnent would
be willing to subsidize woodfuel production. The appraisal mission appears
to have ignored this analysis and included both rural and urban block
plantations as project components. As the project proceeded, this error in



- 1S -
project design became apparent and both GOZ and the Bank agreed to shift
away from block plantations.
7.03      Preparation and Appraisal reports failed to reflect the high
recurrent costs which would be involved in the establishment and running of
a large network of Government nurseries (a problem which had already been
experienced in other Bank projects e.g. Malawi Wood Energy I and Kenya
Forestry III). Because of this problem, the Forestry Commission is
currently in the process of handing over to District Councils a large
number of the nurseries established under RAP.
7.04      Although questions were raised during the Bank's review of the
Appraisal report concerning the focus in government nurseries on Eucalyptus
production for fuelwood, and it was recommended that the range of species
and potential approaches to rural afforestation should be broadened, these
recommendations were not implemented. The project continued to produce
primarily Eucalyptus, despite the well recorded interest of farmers in
indigenous species.
7.05      Later in the life of the project, it became apparent that major
failings in project design were the lack of emphasis on protection and
management of indigenous woodland for multiple end use (fodder, fuelwood,
poles, timber, grazing) and the need to shift responsibility for seedling
production to farmers and local communities with more emphasis on
multipurpose (particularly fruit and leguminous) species. The mid term
review and seminars should have identified the need to modify project
design in these areas.
7.06      The preparation and identification reports outlined a
comprehensive program for involvement of agricultural extension services in
rural afforestation. However *hey failed to include financing of this work
out of the project budget. The Bank failed to perceive these flaws both
during appraisal of RAD as well as during the preparation and appraisal of
the National Agricultural Extension and Research Project, which resulted in
an unfinanced program of work for AGRITEX in rural afforestation.
7.07      The Bank should have taken a stronger position in helping to
ensure that these H&E procedures were put in place and followed up. As a
consequence, the assessment of the project performance has had to be baser
on intuitive perceptions of likely project impact rather than on the
structured analysis of the relevance of the different project initiatives.
Modifications to the Project Emeraing from Supervision and mid-term Review
Missions
7.08      In light of the fact that this was one of the first IDA
supported activities in Zimbabwe, the Bank could have provided during early
supervision missions more assistance in ensuring that IDA procedures were
understood and could have assisted the Forestry Commission in putting
pressure on Treasury and the Ministry to ensure timely disbursement of
funds for project implementation. The result was slow rates of



- 16 -
disbursement, late procurement of vehicies and late implementation of civil
works. It took two years before this issue was effectively addressed.
7.09      Notwithstanding this weakness in the Bank's performance, an
extremely important input to the project w&s made during a supervision
mission in late 1985. That mission realized that the project was
experiencing major management problems and recommended the appointment of a
new Project Manager, three workshops designed to ease the management
transition and a Mid-term Bank Review to assess needed changes in project
design. Indeed, Bank Management was quite frank with Government when it
pointed out that the Project Management was ineffective and recommended
that it should be replaced. GOZ concurred and replaced the project
manager. The three workshops were successful in initiating a dialogue
between field and headauarters staff and between AGRITEX and FC, but too
late in the project's life to make a positive impact.
7.10      Also as a follow-up to the Bank's Mid-term Review mission, the
FC established and implemented a training and career development program
for RAD staff, redirected technical funds and staff for the rural block
plantation component to provide technical assistance to local
organizations, and implemented an urban woodfuel demand study.
Bank Approach to the Economic Justification for the Project
7.11      The original ERR was based on a very narrow perspective of the
likely project benefits related to the value of project fuelwood production
compared with the alternative of using coal. The PCR's assessment is that
to adequately measure the impact of a rural afforestation program of this
type a more comprehensive analysis of the potential range of benefits would
have been appropriate (e.g., the role of trees and woodlands in rural areas
to contribute to sustainable agriculture and livestock feed, production of
fuelwood, fodder, fruit, building poles and timber). As noted in para 6.07
because of the lack of M&E data, information was not available that could
provide a basis for reassessment of the project EER. There is sparse data
on farmer participant costs, project fuelwood and pole wood output (ie tree
survival and volume grown), on fuelwood and pole prices in the project
area, nor on the extent to which lack of fuelwood has compelled people to
burn alternative sources of energy. It is relevant to note that in the
follow-up project a much broader approach has been applied that takes into
account the trade offs between tree planting and other farming activities
in the cropping system and factors in the opportunity cost of producing
wood and the cost of natural woodland depletion. Such an analysis should
have preceded the RAP. The focus on woodlots was the wrong strategy for
producing fuelwood and the results have been disappointing.
8. Borrower Performance
8.01      The main strengths of GOZ performance were the early commitment
of the GOZ to broaden its policy mandate and change the FC's organizational
structure from its original industrial forestry orientation to introduce a
new rural afforestation strategy for communal areas. Secondly, FC's
achievements Juriig the second half of the project in institution building
within SFD including training of staff. SPD is now staffed with



- 17 _
enthusiastic and dedicated professionals. Completion of many of the
project's physical targets also reflects well on GOZ performance.
8.02      The main weakness of the Borrower's performance during project
implementation was the failure of the FC to establish strong RAD management
during the first two years of the project. Weak leadership and poorly
defined career paths in RAD resulted in frequent movement of higher level
and competent staff out of RAD and into industrial forestry positions in
the FC. This resulted in low staff morale. The Monitoring and Evaluation
'Jnit collapsed after the third year. FC's general lack of familiarity with
Bank procurement and disbursement procedures delayed vehicle acquisition
and civil works and slowed down implementation during the first three
years. However the Bank itself was partly responsible for this situation
and, as noted earlier, took steps to organize a training program on
procurement procedures.
8.03      Other issues highlighted during the mid term review and
mentioned earlier include the failure of the FC to incorporate into the
revised project objectives component modifications that would have
reflected the findings of the Baseline Survey concerning the role of
indigenous woodlands in supplying fuelwood and poles to the CAs, the need
for greater emphasis on seedling production by farmers and the need for
coordinated extension programs between the FC and AGRITEX. The Bank also
shares the responsibility for these latter failures.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.01      The main lessons 1.eern'pd from this project are the followings
firstly, it should have been recognized at appraisal that the industrial
orientation of the Forestry Depat;iment raised serious institutional
questions concerning the FC's a. '.ity in implement a rural forestry
project. Ideally, a State Fores'-y Division staffed with competently
trained people and a well defined Ixtension Program must be in place before
a rural forestry resource manageme t program can be implemented.
9.02      Secondly, investment in woodlots for production of fuelwood
cannot be justified. The majority of farmers either secure fuelwood free or
at low cost from indigenous woodlands or as a by product from farm trees
that produce a combination of products (eg poles, fruit, timber). From a
financial perspective, prices for fuelwood are too low to justify a major
program of State owned fuelwood lots.
9.03         Thirdly, well in advance of appraisal, a survey should have
been conducted to understand farmer and community attitudes to indigenous
forest management and tree planting . Ir. common with Bank experience
elsewhere, there remains a clear tendency in both Bank and Government
approaches to rural forestry strategies, to underestimate the extent to
which local communities and small farmers are already aware of the need for
protection of indigenous woodlands and are spontaneously taking up tree
planting. The emphasis needed to be more on distribution of low cost
improved seeds for farmers to plant on their own land, and on community
involvement in indigenous woodland management.



- 18 _
9.04      Forth, there should have been clearer definition of procedures
for ensuring effective collabocation between FC and AGRITEX extension
staff.
9.05      Fifth, the lack of support for research of relevance to rural
afforestation was a weakness because AGRITEX and FC did not have access to
information about possible effective approaches including trees in farming
systems and indigenous forest management and were therefore handicapped in
devising appropriate research programs.
9.06      Six, supervision missions, although highlighting the main
problems, failed to follow-up on critical measures for addressing SFD's
failure to establish an effective Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and to
ensure that the National Forest Inventory and Map were produced. A current
inventory of the national forest/woodland resources on commercial and
communal lands and a well designed and effectively implemented monitoring
and evaluation program are essential to the effective implementation of
future projects addressing forestry, natural resource management, and
wildlife resources.



- 19 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROW9R'S PERSPECTIVE
10. General
10.01     The decision to invest in the Rural Afforestation Project by the
Government of Zimbabwe was a wise move which resulted in:
(i) a positive impact on the development of social
forestry in Zimbabwe;
(ii) provided an exposure for the implementing agency in
dealing with donors for rural development programs.
11. Project Concept and Design
11.01     Project Concept.  On the whole, the Rural Afforestation Project
was conceived as a fuelvood and pole project. A stumpage price was decided
on to eventually work out an economic return. The calculation of a high
economic rate of return resulted in the following8
(i)  The Government of Zimbabwe accepting a loan for the
implementation of a social program when it should have
gone for a grant;
(ii) the treatment of trees as a cash crop that should
generate income and thus overlooking the broader
benefits of trees and woodland management;
(iii) the focus on the production of seedlings perceived for
the supply of fuelwood and poles.
11.02     Project Design.  The design of the project emphasized
centralized nursery and seedling production thereby alienating rural
farmers and communities from participating in tree growing and tree care
activities.
11.03     Project Organization.  Due to the World Bank's involvement and
Zimbabwe Government's eagerness to implement a social forestry program as
one of the means of addressing problems of the Communal Area inhabitants,
the project was implemented before some of the cost/benefit, ecological,
social, cultt%ral and economic issues were thoroughly debated and
articulated. The hurried implementation resulted in the emergence of the
following problems:
(i) The Forestry Commission not having adequate staff and
facilities for program implementation;



- 20 -
(ii) weak institutional communications and collaboration
and at times resistance from key government
departments;
(iii) lack of understanding of World Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures in the early years of the
project;
(iv) lack of knowledge on tendering procedures, resulting
in delays in vehicle procurement and construction of
houses;
(v)  uncertainty in fiscal allocations to sustain central
nurseries and maintenance of project infrastructure;
(vi) emphasis on a non-participatory approach to rural tree
planting.
12. Government of Zimbabwe's Performance
12.01     The Forestry Commission lacked an understanding of disbursement
procedures and was inexperienced in its dealing with the fiscal ministries.
The result was that project start-up had to be financed from Forestry
Commission's profits which were quite inadequate for a project this large.
12.02     Despite the management problems that haunted the project in its
early years, it was staffed with young and enthusiastic staff who were
determined to achieve results.
12.03     The project management treated the appraisal document as a bible
and followed it to the letter. This led to inflexibility to accept and
initiate changes and decisions that would have had a positive impact on the
program.
12.04     Although institutional arrangements were poorly defined, field
project staff coordinated well with other agencies.
12.05     Unfortunately, the role of these other agencies was never
clearly articulated so that the main emphasis of the project became
establishment of central nurseries by the Forestry Commission.
12.06     Delays in the recruitment of staff to implement the project,
i.e. the Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, the Education and Publicity
Officer, the Research Officer and filling of Provincial posts.
12.07     Rural fo.  try was ranked lower than other Forestry Commission
activities resulting in discrepancies in remuneration, low staff morale and
ultimately high staff turnover.
12.08     The recognition by field staff that not only Agritex could play
the role of forestry on-farm extension by forma-ion of Tree Planting



- 21 -
Committees was a positive move to bring about participation of other
agencies.
13. World Bank Performance
13.01     The World Bank supervision missions played a major role in
helping project management resolve its problems with relevant authorities,
i.e. FC directorate, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism and
Treasury. However, closer supervision should have been carried out at the
beginning of the project as management had no experience in project
implementation.
13.02     The variation in price for construction of houses from that
budgeted caused delays, flexibility should have been built into the
contract.
13.03     The World Bank should have used its experience in other parts of
the world in designing the project as well as giving clear guidelines on
possible potential methods to be tried in carrying out social forestry
programs.
14. Findings and Lessons Learned
14.01     The success of such projects depends on availability of a
trained human resource and one that is highly motivated.
14.02     For the Bank and the borrower, the need to resolve issues and
understand the environment the project will operate in.
14.03     Sustainability of a project should be taken into consideration
in designing a project and the need for local involvement in the planning
and implementation of a programme.
14.04     Flexibility is key to success of sound forestry projects.
14.05     To be successful, tree planting has to be integrated into the
farming system and economic benefits are of primary interest to peasant
farmers.
14.06     The Forestry Commission should develop a stronger extension
strategy that is not necessarily paternalistic and must develop clear
monitorable action programs for its collaborating field institutions e.g.
Agritex.



- 22 -
Part III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1
Related Bank Loans and Credits
Calendar
Year of
Loan/Credit Title   Purpose          6Mproval    Status        Comments
Small Farm Credit   To promote                                 The project
(Cr 1201 ZTM)        growth with                               was successful
agriculture                               in terms of
equity especial-                          the number of
ly among small                            borrowers
farmers.                                  taking credit
which exceed-
Closed       ed appraisal
1982   06/30/88      targets.
National Agri-       To strengthen                             The building
culture Ext.         and re-orient                             program has
and Res.             the research                              remained be-
(Ln 2335-ZIM)        and extension                             hind target
services to                 3rd ext.      and the inter-
address the                 of closing   ministerial
needs of small              date          coordination
farmers.             1983   03/31/90      is weak.
Agr. Credit          To finance agri-                          This project
and Export           credit for small-                         will address
Promotion            scale and commer-                         the problems
(Ln 7446-ZIM)       cial farmers                               of loan
through the AFC                           arrears ex-
and to strengthen                         perienced in
the AFC.                                  the small
Not yet       farm credit
1990   effective    project.
Forest Resources    To conserve
Management and       indigenous
Development          forests and
promote tree
planting in com-
munal areas in
addition to in-
creasing the
efficiency of
commercial wood
processing                  Not yet
industry.            1990   signed



- 23 -
Table 2
Proiect Timetable
Item                      Date Planned   Date Revised   Date Actual
Identification                       -               -         January, 1981
Preparation                          _               -         April, 1982
Appraisal                            -               -         May-June, 1982
Credit Negotiation                   -               -         April, 1983
Board Approval                       _               -         May 17, 1983
Credit Agreement Signature           -               -         August 8, 1983
Credit Effectiveness                 -               -          Sept. 14, 1983
Credit Closing               March 31, 1988   March 31, 1989 harch 31, 1989
Table 3
Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (SDR '000)
1984      1985       1986       1987      1988       1989
Appraisal Estimate  2,233       4,468     5,957      6,800        -         -
Actual                 458      1,084     1,771      2,360      3,679   6,450
Actual as X
of Estimate           21        24         30         35         54       95
Date of final disbursement: 10/10/1989



-24-
Table 4
(Page 1 of 2)
4.  Proiect ImBlementation
Appraisal
Indicators                      Estimate        Actual    I of Target
A. Nurseries lI
No. of Nurseries-new                48                79      150
n  - rehabilitated         -                  7
Annual seedling Production
(million) (at full development)   4.8                4.8    100
B. Demonstration Woodlots 3/
(Planted ha)                       240              137         57
C. Block Plantations (planted ha) 2/
Rural 1/                         1,050              188         18
Urban 2/                           350              523        149
E. Support Fund
Nurseries Seedling Prod. (million) n.a.                1.5
'Woodlots area planted (ha)          n.a.         2,375
F. Buildins Construction
Offices & Storerooms                67                75        112
Staff Housing  3/                  109               45          41
Guest Houses                        -                  2        ...
Cooking sheds                       -                 35        ...
G. Studies
Baseline Survey                      1                 1    completed
Forest Resources Survey              1                1    not satis-
factorily
completed
Review of Forestry Policy in C.A.  1                   -  not carried out
Wood Energy Utilization              1                 1    completed
(Replaced by Urban Fuelwood
Demand Analysis)
Comments
1/   Rural Block Plantatiore:s  Of the estimated 1,050 ha, 188 ha were
established. Most of the block plantations were abandoned in
1986 beczuse they entailed clearing of indigenous forests in
demarc,ted forest areas which proved objectionable to local
people.



- 25 -
Table 4
(Page 2 of 2)
2/   Urban Plantationst  523 ha of urban plantations were planted vs.
the estimated 350 ha. The positive response by urban councils
to offer open areas for afforestation resulted in more land
being made available than was planned.
3/   Demonstration Plots:  At appraisal, 5 ha plots to demonstrate
sustained yield management were to be planted close to the
nurseries. Land was not easily available in blocks of 5 ha in
the communal areas so the SAR target was cut by 50?.
1/ Annex I, table 1.
2/ Annex I, table 2.
3/ Annex I, table 3.



- 26 -
Table 5
(Page 1 of 3)
Proiect Costs and Financing
A.  Project Costs   1/
(SDR '000)
Item                      Estimated Costs       Revised         Actual Costs
Civil Worlds                    1,860              -                  1,069
Vehicles & Eqtuipments            740              -                  1,305
Technical Assistance              840              -                    678
Training                          190              -                     48
Local Salaries                  3,710              -                  2.638
Vehicles & Equipments
Opr. Maintenance                930              -                 2,699
Unallocated                     1,630
TOTAL                           9,900              -                  8,437
l/Details on project costs in Z$ are given in Annex I, tables 4 and 5.



- 27 -
Table 5
(Page 2 of 3)
B. Proiect Financing
(SDR '000)
Source of Funds                SAR Estimate   Revised   Actual  3/
Expenditure Categories
IDA
Civil Works                 1,490           -          855
Vehicles, Furn. & Equip.      740           -        1,265
Technical Assistance          840           -          678
Training                      190           -           48
Local Salaries              2,410           -        1,715
Vehicles & Equip.
Opr. & Maintenance          650           -         1,889
Unallocated                   480           -           -
Sub-total IDA          6,800 11       -          6,450
Government
Civil Works                   370           -           214
Vehicles, Furn. & Equip.       -            -             40
Technical Assistance           -            --
Training                       -            -
Local Salaries              1,300           -           923
Vehicles & Equip.
Opr. & Maintenance          280           -           810
Unallocated                 1,150           -             -
Sub-total Gov't.       3,100 21       -          1,987
TOTAL                  9,900           -         8,437
Commentst
Civil Works: Down SDRs 634 330. The PC constructed 45 staff houses
compared to 109 as orginally estimated because the FC hired local workers
who worked from their homes.
Vehicles, Furniture and Equi2ment: Up SDRs 524 909. Due to purchasing 70
vehicles, 50 motobikes and 67 bicycles instead of 51 vehicles as originally
appraised.
Technical Assistance: Down SDRs 161 903. Two major studies i.e. (l)
Review of Forestry Policy in communal landes (ii) Wood Energy Utilization
Study were not implemented.



- 28 -
Table 5
(Page 3 of 3)
Training: Down SDRs 142 134. Due to the unexpected sponsoring of all
overseas training by sources outside the Forestry Commission eliminating
the need of IDA financing.
Local Staff Salaries and Allowances:  Down SDR3 695 030.  The salaries and
benefits for staff were lower than originally appraised.
Vehicle and EQuipment Operation and Maintenance: Up SDRs 1 238 900.
Resulting from (i) running and maintaning a higher number of vehicles and
cycles than originally anticipated; (ii) under estimating the overhead
running costs e.g. printing and stationary.
Total Under Exoenditure: Down SDRs 349 588. The Zimbabwe dollar
depreciated faster than anticipated thus increasing the loan in terms of
SDRs measurement.
I/   Equivalent to US$ 7.3 million.
2/   Equivalent to USS 3.3 million.
t/   Details are given in Annex I, table 6.



- 29 -
Table 6
(Page 1 of 3)
Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                           Appraisal Estimates        Actual
Area Planted (ha)
Block Plantations
-Rural                               1,050                    188
-Urban                                 350                    523
Demonstration Wooldlots                      240                   137
Farmers' Woodlots                          3,680                   n.a.
Wood Pzoduction (m3)
Block Plantations
-Rural                             157,500                    n.a.
-Urban                              52,500                 78,450
Demonstration Woodlots                   36,000                 16,440
Farmers' Woodlots                       441,600                    n.a.
Employment 1/
Full time permanent                          340                   235
Casual labour (mid)                        4,150
Key staff                                     26                    26
Other staff (incl. supp. staff)              ...                    56
Beneficiaries
Fuelwood & Pole Prod. - No. of families 3,820                      n.a.
Support Fund - Nursery establ. (no)          n.a.                7,950
- Woodloti  establ. (ha)       n.a.                2,351
Training 21
n.a. - data not available
11   Details are given in Annex I, Table 9.
2/   Details are given in Annex I, Table 10.



- 30 -
Table 6
(Page 2 of 3)
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate        Actual
Economic Rate of Return                   14%                    ... 1/
n.a. = data not available
Table 6 (Cont'd)
C. Financial Impact
ALoraisal Estimate        Actual
Financial Rate of Return
F.C. plantations                               8                 ...2/
Farmers' woodlots                             18                 ...2/
Local Authority woodlots                      262                ... 2/
2/   Data for recalculation were not available.



D. Studies
Impact of
Title                     Purpose                    Status                             the Study
Baseline survey of farmers'       To evaluate the               Completed and                Although the survey
attitudes to tree planting        attitudes of communal         submitted to the Bank        work and analysis
In comounal areas.                qrea farmers toward           and GOZ December.            were thorough and
planting trees               1984.                         comprehensive the
particularly with                                          study was largely
reference to pole and                                      ignored by Project
fuelwood use and                                          Management and Bank
demand.                                                    supervision missions
partly because it was
written in an overly
cumbersome and
academic style.
Forest resources inventory        To provide inventory          The maps produced            The data and maps
In communal areas.                maps and quantitative         were inadequate and          when completed will
data of indigenous           will have to be               provide valuable
timber resources in          completed following           information
communal areas as a          project closing.              concerning tree
baseline for                                               resources in comnunal
monitoring future                                          lands for FC in the
trends in forest                                          management and design
utilization and                                            of subsequent
depletion.                                                 forestry sector
investments. An
                                                                                       outside contractor
has been hired to
complete the maps by
November, 1990.
Review of Forest Policy in        To provide the basis          Was not undertaken as        N.A.
communal areas.                   for writing                   GOZ was in the
legislation for the          process of
mangement of natural         legislating the
forests on a                 Community Land Forest
sustained yield basis        Produce Bill (1987).
In communal areas.
Review of Wood Energy             To assess the                 Has been replaced by         N.A.                        o
Utilization Program in the        effectiveness of              a study of urban wood
MIED.                             energy conservation           fuel needs completed
programs with                November, 1988.
particular reference
to fuelwood
conservation.



- 32 -
Table 7
(Page 1 of 2)
Statum of Covenants
Covenants                              Status of Compllance
3.02 (a)               Execution of tho Prolect.  The Borrower            Effective linkages betwen
shall carryout the project through VNRT           tho FC and ACRITEX wero
and FC with the assistance of AGRITEX and         not developed. Tho FC
provide, promptly ma needed, the funds,           financed the project
facilities, servicee and othor rosources          during the first project
required for (the project)'.                      year In the absence of
budgetary allocations by
Treasury. The Comission
was reimbursed for these
expenss after April 1194.
Budgetary allocations
since then have been
timely.
3.01 (b)               Prolect Coordinatina Comittee.  'The               The Coordinating Comm ittee
Borrower shall maintain in exietence the          has been relativoly
Project Coordinating Committee                    Ineffective.  Thore has
*stablished by it In March 1982 to ensur,         been little continuity in
coordination and cooperation In the               membership, and It has mt
imploemntation of the Project.'                   infrequently.  Itsn Impact
has been marginal.
3.01 (c)               Monitoring and Evaluation.  "The Borrowr           The Unit was created in a
shall establish by not later than                 timly manner, however the
September 80, 1983, and maintain In               Monitoring and Evaluation
existence a Monitoring and Evaluation             Officer was appointed In
Unit within FC headed by a Monitoring and         Deceber 1984 and resigned
Evaluation Officer for the purpose of             In early 1987.  The Unit
monitoring, Implemsnting, and evaluating          never becam  an effective
the Project.'                                     data analysis center and
evaluation unit.
3.01 (d)                 countin.  'The Borrower shall maintain           The Projoect has been
In-existence the Accounting Unit for the          staffed by a woll-
Project headed by a qualitTed experienced         qualified and competent
Project Accountant ...'.                          accountant.
8.02                   Consultants.  Oln order to aseist the              Consultants prparing the
Borrower in carrying out Part C of ths            preparatlon report for the
Project, the Borrower shall employ                follow up project produced
consultants...as appropriete...in                 a document which required
accordance with principle  and procedure          substantial revision and
atiefactory to the Aesoclation.'                  necesitated the hiring of
additional consultants.
Consultant. preparing the
National Forest Resource
Inventory survey did not
satisfactorily complet
the vegtation mp.
8.0o                   Studies. 'The Borrower shall submit or             A wood enorgy utilization
cause to be submitted to the Aosociation          study was never carried
for Its review and comments by not later          out by the project.  The
than September 89, 1988, (the wood energy         Baseline Survey was
utilizatlon study) and by not later than          submltted In December
October 81, 1988 (the baseline survey).'          1984. Tho Ministry of
Energy, Water Resources,
and Development carried
out an Enery Pricin
Study In Jtnuary t98g.
The urban woodfuel usu
study was completed August
19|9.
8.09  (b)              R ortin . 'The Borrowers (1) sholl                Regular reports have ben
ii1i-nWa recordb and procedurs adequate           made avallable during
to record and monitor the progras of the          Supervision mlislons



-33 -                             Table 7
(Page 2 of 2)
Project (and)  hoall furnish to tho               concerning projwet
Association at regular Intervals *11 such          lmplementation.  While UK
Information as the Association-shall              roports  which provided
reasonably r euest coneorning the                 the basis for much of this
Project ...I nformtion, were quite
comprehensivo there
soomd to have bee  Ilttle
Internal analysis or
discusIon about projoet
trends and about what
alternative extension
approaches might be
explored. There was
littlo Inforation
ovallable concerning
lmpact and numbor of
beneficilries.
4.01 (c)               Auditina.  'The Borrower shall ... have the        Audited accounts havo bee
accounts referred to paragraphs (a) and           submitted In a timely
(b) of this Section for  each fiscal yerr         manner. The accountIng
audited, in accordance with appropriate           frameork of the Foreetry
auditing principloe  consistently appliod,        Comission was quite
by Independent auditors accptable to the          satisfactory for project
Association.                                       Implemantetion.



- 34 -
Table 8
Use of Bank Resource
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of
Project Cycle                                   Actual
Through Appru'sal                               20.8
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                  71.3
Board Approval
Through
Effectiveness                                    2.9
Supervision                                     67.3
B. Missions
Special-      Perform
Stage of                      Number       Days in  izations        ance        Types of
Proiect Cycle       Month       of Person   Country Represented a/ Status b/  Problems c/
Identification      7/79 to         5          local     Fr,A,E
t1180                    team
Preparation I       5/81 to         1          55        Fr
8iei81
Preparation II      10,81 to    various        local     Fr,A,E
4/82                     team
Pre-appraisal       2/82            3          15        A,E
Appraisal           5/82 to         6          21        A,E,Fr.
6/82                                I,S
Supervision I       11/03/83        3          10        Fr,F,E          2          F
Supervision II      4/27/84         2          10        Fr,E            2          F,P
Supervision III    2/13/85          1          10        Fr              2          F.M
Supervision IV      4/10185         2           5        Fr,E            2          F,M
Supervision V       1/23/86         1           5        Fr              3          P.M
Supervision VI      4/24/86         2          18        Fr, I           3          P.M
Supervision VII    9/11/86          1          12        Fr              2          F,M
Supervision VIII   4/16/87          1           8        Fr              2          F,M
Supervision IX      7/10/87         1           5        Fr              2          F.M
PCR                 7/10/87         1           5        Fr,E
Supervision X       4/6/88          1          12        Fr              2          P
Supervision XI      7/20/88         2          10        F,Fr            2          I
PCR                 14/11/89        2           4        Fr,F
aI    A - Agriclturalist; F - Financial Analyst, FR - Forester; E - Economist; I -
Instiutional specialist; S - Sociologist; FC - Forestry Cosmission; RMEA -
World Bank Regional Mission in East Africa (Nairobi).
b/    1 - problem free or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major          problems.
ct    Type of problem:  F - Financial; M - Management; P - Planning.



- 35 -
Zmbabve: Rural. Afforestation Project (Cr.  1368 ZlM)                                ANNU  1
Project Completion Reoort                                       Table  1
Forestrv Cominssiofi Nurserv Production                                 Page  I ot
(Thousand of Seedlings)
us: or    LZwin                       a,v.a
PROMOMC            BL        Lmm    FI R                  OUTI@   BALUN            ,=         AS A        7 W P     lz
I                           =       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~us. 
F-Y-1982/03                                                  %~~~~~~~~~~S% 
MA1ICAEAND                87,9    12,1      6,1         1,2      4.,3     64,2   13.        6,9%     73 %          29 266
KASH03ALAJMD             395,0     6T,7    11.9         7,5      67,6     240,3    17,1     3,0%    60,5          131 524
MASYINGO                 176,2    57,0    29,7          6,4      ..       83.1    32,4     169y    4T2             56 670
~MATEBELELAJD-                       .       .           .        .         0,0    .
KIDLAZES                  35,2    26:,2   6,6           1,6       0,6       .0   74,4    1MM6          O0         II 721
TOTAL. PTI19)W           694.3   163.0   54,3          16,T      T2,7    387,6   23,S       7.85    55.6%         231 I63
~MANCALAND               177,6     52,6    31,4         6,.1    33,1       54,4   29,6    17,7%    30,6%           41636
HUALAUIW                 492,5   190,9   47,9          18,2    150,3       85,2   38,6      9,7%L    17,3%        116 020
I~:~f~3,3*4j2~j    488,0    239      7, 90                 63,4      92,0   479      16,2%     ISM9         114 960
0,0
MILA                     189.9    as8.6   3094,8 , 1,3                    503   46,?    16,3%        265          44 735
I=s  W1964             1 348,0   566.0  189,1          46,9    262,1    281,9   42.04   14,0%    20,9%.           31? 553
N*ECIMM                  115,T    35,2   17,4          10,3      21,5      31,3   304      15,0%     27,1%         21 1&6
NLIEDAL                  6B2,5   454,6   64,1          45,8     7O,6       47,2   66,6      9,4%      6,9%        132 uI
IGUNI                    69T,   312,6   87,3          104,4     64,6      126,8   44,9    12,6%      16,2%        127 G32
KMLMG             ~~264,8 1144,5   33,9          18is8    37,4      30,2   54,6    12.6%1   11,4%           46579
TOans PT i#W           I 756,7    94.6,9   202,7      179,3     194,3    235,5   53,86    11,5%      13,4%        322 647
506,4   402,4   37,8         26,4      11,4      28,4   79,        7,50%     5.6%        172 760
1 097,4   T87,1   92,4        127,7      42,6      47,4   71,7r      6,4%      4.3%       274 202
672,7    44096.  .42,3       50,2      T776      62,0   65,5       6,3%      9,25        229 494
TEAND  ..     ..      ..          ..        ..         ~~~~ ~~~~0,0    .  .      .
380,8    260,8   20,8        21,5      39,7      18,0   73,?I      ;.Ss        Ts7      129 911
TTL  T1985/86     2 657,3  1 910,9   193,3       225,8    171,5    15e,  7T,M           ,3%      5.9%s       906 547
517,7   361;1    39,7         3,0       1,4    112,5   6",6        7.7%    a1t7          167646 
1 113,8   869,6    73,0         9,1      25,1     137,0   Tell%    6,6%    12,3%          39 677
WV=               ~~~760,9    267,4    73,T      5,1       4,1    436,6   369 44      9,3%    55,6%        255 466
4TZJfALA                13T,4    20,4    16,5         64.0      34,15      MML   14,9%    13,5%       - 1         44 49
CMLAM             ~~426,5   254,1    36,4        0,1       7.0    126,9   59,6%       9.0%.   29,.%         US 112
'2TAL1 FT 1986/87     2 986,3  1 772,6  243,3         81,3      72,1    615,0   59,4%      6,2% 1 27,3%t         96 394
595,0    357,4   ISO,9       29,4      40,6       8,7   60,1%   26,7%        1,5         434 759
_____        ~~~1 291,1  1 046,1    40,9     99,2      89,1      15,6   61,0%      3,21      1,2%       943 391
762,7   4C4,2  155,          48,2     I1552       -      53,0%    20,3%       -          ST7 2%
125,0   123,5     0,7         0, a       ,5      -       98,85    0,6%        -           91 336
360,4   218,6   27,7          1,6      57,1    -3,4   70,9%        9,0%      Isis        225 344
AZ.FT 1987/88     3 08242  2149,8  383,3         173,6    342,6       27,9   69,81    12,4%      0.9%      2 252 126
NANZCALfD                662,4   410,6  18643          ,,        29,7      3T,8   62,0 us     .8      5.7%        420 551
~~1ASW2IA1A  ~   2 182,6 I1522,7  322,8          35,2    255,9       47,0   69,7%    14,0        2.2%      1 3   346
t4ASV            ~~~~1 31,6    502,6   42S.S     ..        22,       75,5   41,11    34,59      5,t         775 Su
~~.ATEB1ZZLA      460,3   247,2   43,9          ..917                ML    non     ."           -          24 A4"
LtFT 6016           '.-'oa"                               -us iks-- 



ANNE I
Table I
Page 2 of 2
TABLE I  (continued)
PRODUCTION                     USE  OF  SEEDLINGS                      SALES, FREE ISSUES, AND UNUSED
PROVINCE              & BALANCE    SALES    FREE       DEI)N    DEATS1  BAIA'4CE   SALES   FREEES   BALANCE    TOTAL NItBER
CARRIED                ISSUES STR            OR     UNUSED              ISSUES  LUNSED          COSTS (S)
FORltARD                         TION     CULLS
PLOTS
PROJECTS TOTALS
?ANMICALAflD            2 662.7     1 631:4   475.6    76.4        142      337.3     61.3%,   17.9%      12,7%       1 ..8 i)4
XtASH3'4ALAYD           7 255.'     4 939.7   653.0    342.7       701.6    619.9     68.1%      M,P%      8,5%       3 4^.7 50  1
~SVi'.N.S\GO            L 85.3      2 218.5   9 2.5    234.1      5a7.7    873,0.   46, 2%    I1,6       18,2%       2 119 1ZO
RJTEBELELANV  '           653.2       491.1    63.1    64.2         44.8      _ -      74.1%     9,5%        0%         3'f) 79'1
I1IDLAN!DS             1   '.1      1 121.9  2"'. .9    48.4       195.2    303.S      56.9%    15~.    15.7%, 831 0V.9
PROJECT TOTALS        17 359.7     10 401.5  2 3?2.1   765.8    1 671.3  2 139.0      59.9%    13.7,    12.3 r.      B   Oi' O
.~I



Zimbabwe:   Rural Afforestation Project  (Cr.  1368 ZIM)                                     ANNEX I
Project Completion Report
Urban and Rural Block Plantations                                                 Table 2
PLANTING. BY YEAR                  1983 - 1984        1984  -  1985       1955  - 1986      1986  -  1987      1987  -  1956         1988  - 19R9
CUMUIATIVE        CUIIIAT1VE          CUIUUIATIVE      CUiAT I VE           CUMIATIVE
AREA    VAUWE           AREA  VALUE        AREA   VAWE       AREA  VAUTE       AREA   VAUE       |  AREA      VAUE
BLWCI PUNTATI NS                 6,                      .
DETE                           _        _             _      -             8.0   69 490,8   8.0  68 210,   8,0   92 811.0           8.0      106 769.8
LUPANE/JOTSHOLO                _                       _                   -                 6,0  51 157.   6,0   69 608.3          6,0       80 071.4
CHESA                          _        _             _      _              _ *             25.0  213 157,  25,0  290 034.4        25,0      333 655.7
CIIUAAFOREST HIL.              7.5    61 981          47,5  368 049       61,0  529 867,6  76,0  647 999,  76,0  881 704,7         76,0    1 014 313.4
FULLER                         -       -              -      -           12,0  104 236,2  12,0  102 315,   12,0  139 216,6         12,0      160 154.?
MAFU8CAIIUSI                  15,0   123 963         26,0  201 458       35,0  304 022,4  45,0  383 684.,  45,0  522 062,0         45,0      600 580.3
SANTATI                        -       -               -      -            -       -        1.0  136 421,  16,0  185 622,0        16.0      213 539.7
TOTAL BLOCK PLANTATIONS       22,5   185 944          73.5  569.507      116,0  1 00 617  188,0 1 60297,0 188,0 2 181 059.0       188,0    2 509 091
URBAU PLANTATIONS
14UTA1.E/GIMOKI                 -       -              -      -            -      -           -      -       5,29    21 911        17,79      8? 586
IIATCLIFFE                   37        38 495         37      70 428     37       93 471    37    110 446   37      153 252        37        182 16t
DZIVARASEKWA                 15,0      15 605  -      30      57 104      45     113 681    55    164 176  55       227 807        55        270 7a3
EPWIORTH                       -        -              -        -          -        -       49    146 266  61       252 659        61        300 323
GOERU SEtIKA                   -        -              9      17 131       9      22 736     9     26 865    9       3 277          9         44 310
GOWERU  EOI4A                61.7      64 194       83.2    158 368      101,3  255 910   121,0  361 188  141,0   584 014         141        64 189
MASVINGO  URBAN              12,52     13 026        31,82    60 568      40,72  102 870   50.32  150 206  50,x   208 423          50.32     247 742
"ASVII700/1UCHIEKE             -        -              -       -          57,12  144 300   57,12  ITO 505   57,1    236 588        57.12     2m1 221
CHIRIIOTl URBAN                _        _              _     .              _      _        16,00  '7 761   56,    231 949         80,0      393 b6
KAROI/CHIIKAW2E                _        _              _       _            _       _       15,C0  44 775   15,0   -62 129        15,00      73 8SO
TOTAL: UllIA PLArATIOTNS    126,22   131 321        191;C2   363 599    290,14  73; 968  409.44  1 222 I8 486.7. 2 016 009        523.23  2 576 013
DEtDNSTATIO  PLOTS           11,18    39 131         3D.93 i  108 274    56,90  199 178    05,    278620  137,01   418 243        137,01     479 514
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       I__   _  __            _  _ __          _  _ _   ~   I _ _ _  _ _     _ _  _  



ANNEX I
Zimbabwe: Rural Afforestation Proj#ct (Cr. 1368 ZIM)                  Tab1e 3
Project Completion Report
Support Fund
(1986 - 1987)
NIJRSERIKS                          ~~~~~~~~WOOOL(Ts
I                                                 S
10. CF B[DICLABIE3    ND. jF qn z maim           t53. OF iNf CIMIES         A AREA PLANTED
.                         ;   - -  -- -  - --  - -    -   .   .              .~~J... 
SCHOOLS                        2 543        I           763 127                   372                      656 ha
GPIOUPS                        2 443        z           435 494                   779                    1 091t  a
INDIVIDUALS                    2 163        *           353 708                 1 174          *           576 ha
OTHIERS                          801         I            8 950                    27                       49 ha
TOTALS                         7 950                  1 561 279                 2 351                    2  '75 ha
I~~ S



ANNEX I
Table 4
Zimbabwes Rural Afforestation Protect Cr. (1368 ZIM)
Total Proiect Cost in current term 1,
83-84  84-85   85-86  86-87  87-88  88-89    Total
Categorl
Civil works      243   130      295     76   421    1,000       2.165
Vehicles &
Furniture       59    53      488     38    157   2,276       3,071
Tech. Assist.    69      8      119    171    825      164      1,356
Training           4     4       33     41       8        8        98
Local Salaries  644   608       817    927  1,107   1,234       5.337
Vehicles 02m.   302   413   1,110  1,282  1,257   1,545         5,909
TOTAL    1,321 1,216   2.862  2,535  3,775   6,227    17,936
jI Source: F.C. Accounting Section.
ANNEX 1
Table 5
Zimbabwe: Rural Afforestation Prolect (Cr. 1368 ZIM)
Total Project Costs
TOTAL     IDA        GOV.       TOTAL      IDA 1/    GOV,
Cate,gorv
- - - -(Z$'000)- - - - -       - - -  -(US$'000)2I - - -
Civil works      2,165    1.732      433        1,250      1.000      250
Vehicles &
Furniture      3,071    2,989       82        1,774      1,727      47
Tech. Assist.   1,356    1,356         -          783        783        -
Training            98        98       -           57         57        -
Local Salaries  5,337    3,469   1.868          3,083      2,003   1,080
Vehicles Op.&
Haint.         5,909    4,136   1,773         3,413      2,389   1,024
TOTAL     17,936   13,780   4,156         10,360     7,959   2,401
Sourcet P.C. Accounting Section.
1/  W.B. Disbursement by Quotas - Loan Department.
2/ Average Exchange rate for the periods USS 1 a Z$ 0.5776



ANNEX I
zimlAr,  RbRAIL AFM?.S3T?AIO  PROJ: - T  (Cr. 1368 ZIM)
Table 6
Project Completion Report
Project Viabursements by Expe nUture Cate&ory
Statement of Project Disbursements. in SUO*
E5L7DITUM                                                        PREC? DlSU2Sm-l1S, Bl Yi&  (SDRS)                tUTAL PROJECT     ?0AL         ACTUAL AS %      riZs
Dl3SORSEMI:IS     AFRMISAL    APPRAISAL        S.:
*SPA?IM      ESTATES ICt  ._
30 Jv3t 1984  *30/0/85      30/6/86     31/6/61   50/6/6a    30/6/8   10/10/89
i. Civil works                      127;126        58.720        68.102       85.9jS     M2.6f7   545.486    50-585        %.670   1,490.000       57%            6Y..3
2. Vehicles. furniture A Eq  /       25.875       136.942       4353404       24.456      67.28z   468.fa0   40.991    1,264.909      740.000     111%          (52.,
3. t eicew l assisteac  2/            i.766       53i929         66.116        8.724     at6-6      260.228    44-114     61B;f0       840.000      S             161.903
4. ftainini      d                      697         5.670          5.145      11.944      20.7:6      4.698     5.96       47.866      190.000      25%           142.1)4
5. local salaries                   225.766        250.558      179.494      184.925     555.77   51a.470       NIL     1.7)4.970    2.410.000      71%           695.030
6. Vehic)e & Equipment
operation & maintenance          78.80         124 .?77      254.900     272.534     508.682   646.284    22.a85  .1,888.900       650.000      291%        (l.2i8-S0)
Dnaflocated                            0             0.            0           0            0                                      480.000        0            4eO.000
p-ai SDR                            458.066       625.004       687;161      580.561   1,319.705  2,242.946   528_169   6.450.412    6,e60.0oo      95%           349.580
Total(US$'000)                      483            623          791         707        1,780             3,575           7,959
I/  Details are given In fable 7.
2/ Details are given In Table 8.
I .



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
Zimbabwe: Rural Afforestation Protect (Cr. 1368 ZIM)
Proiect Comioletion Reloort
Procurement of Vehicles
Aguraisal Estimate        Actual
Station Wagons                                              6
Front Wheel Drive                                          18
Pick-up                              51                    32
Trucks - 2 ton                                              6
- 5 ton                                              4
Tractors & Trailers                  n.a.                   4
Hotorbikes                           n.a.                  50
Bicycles                             48                    67



ZIMBABWE                              -42 -
1CAL  AFEORESTATION  PROJECT   (Cr. 1368 ZIM)                               Table 8
Page 1 of 2
Project Completior. Report
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
7:"!AbvW          S 0 Rs
i                                s              ~~~~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~SD Rs  |; 
|2.T. ^ scr. & Associates LtJ 1/             939 544          419 742               6  SC
base"- se Survey & Resource StFdies            225 15t         113 039               1 -, 
Coda                                           129 531          64 753                5.
Jrb i.  -rvey 2/                               S3  401          44 754                6,60
Coooers & !ybrand 3/                            29 428           14 240               2,10
Researchi (Survival Trials)                     27 133          13 552                2,00
Audit '; 'ees 4/                                13 000           6 510                C,96
Lecal & *eneral 4/                               2 949            1 492              ,0_
1 355 442         678 097             tO0
1.8.  The monthly disbursement summary from the International Development Assoc-.1g;.,
s:iows the total SDRs disbursed fir Technical Assistance as at 31 October
1?89 as 482094 instead of 579097 SORs because of Applications 37 and 39
for T.M.  Thomson and Associates Ltd amounting to 196 003 SDRs which were c-ded
under category 1 (civil works) instead of category 3 Technical
Assistance. After correcting this the total disbursement f'or technical
Assistance becomes 678 097 SDRs  i.e  (482 094 + 196 003)    678 097)



ANNEX I
-43- 
table 8
Page 2 of 2
NUMS
(1)    T.M. 1MOON & ASMLATM  LMD
T.M.T. Associates were contracted to carry-out the preparation of the
Forestry II Project (as per SAR 1989, pp 20, para 2.16 (v) ).
(2)    IED    SEI
The ;rban Survey Study was not stipulated in the SAR 1983. However,
a study carried out by the M & E Unit at the Oweru Urban Plantation
concluded that the project should support a study of urban fuelwood
supply and demnnd in the 5 rmjor urban centres of Zinbabwe. Only
one was undertaken in Harare.
(3)     mC    & LIMAND
This Was agreed during the course of the project between the Wbrld
Bank and Forestry Cnnnission to contract a consultant/consulting
finn for the omiputerization of the Forestry Camission.
(4)         Y1, Iq YL PJEN
Dtlring the course of the project, these costs tore being submitted
to the Wbrld Bank under "Technical Assistance"



ANNEX I
- 44 -                       Table 9
Zimbabwe: Rural Afforestation Project (Cr 1368 ZIH)
Proiect Comiletion Report
Forestry Commission - State Forestra Division
Number of posts established under the Proiect
Staff
HEADQUARTER
Planning Unit
Planner/Economist                                    1
Sociologist                                          1
Inforration and
Extension Unit
Information and Extension Officor                    .
Asat. Inforation and Extension-Training              I
ABst. Information and Extension-Tecbn"tal            1
Coordinator - Tree Care and Tree Plant-ag            I
RtCIONAL OPERATIONS
Regional Forest Officer                              2
Provincial Forest Officer                            7
DLitrict Foresters                                  13
Forest Assistants                                   45
forest Assistant-Protection                          2
Manager-(sweru/Harare Nurseries)                     2
F-ovincial Wildlife Officer                          1
Coordinator Ngamo Safaris                            1
Professional Bunter                                  2
Suodrt 5ism
BUT8.                                                2
soologwr                                             2
UMMOS4b     Accountant                               2
comssger                                             4
Provincil Ihichanc                                   I
PoliDepot Spervisor                                  1
Accounts Clerks                                      9
Typists/Cleoks                                      i
ConfLdential Secretary                               1
fOTAL         114



_ 45 -
Zimbabwe: Rural Afforestation Project (Cr. 1368 ZIM)                                     ANNEX I
Table 10
Project Completion Reoort
Page  I.of  5
Courses Given/Organized by R.A.P.
1953
nr^M TrnE                      OUMJi    Target Group                                       IU"Lo              TW L
Nursery M tagamt               3 dys             Wamn Clubs                                      11                206
na             Fmrs (groups)                                   12                 262
n                         2 dys            Youths                                           6                 206
Atforestation                  3 dys             W  un Groups                                    12                260
2 dys            Femurs Groups                                   13                 251
2 dye            YouthS                                           9                 214
2 dys            Agritex/NB                                       6                  61
1954
Nursery Ikegmnt                S dys             Ib..n  Clubs                                    24                480
ai                        5 dys            Faemrs Groups                                    50               1050
Nursery  _anagmt               3 dys             Youths                                           10               230
Nursery Mnamt                  2 dys             Teahrs                                           13            *  169
NIursery Pangumt               2 dye             Hduters/edotion ofticer                           6         --   54
irsery  _ _sguut               2 dye             Agritox/R3                                        6                60
Atforestatlion                 5 dy              V4n clubs                                        23               453
a                         5 dye            Femurs/Video Ibers                               49                971
Alforestatlion                 3 dye             Youths                                           13               2?2
Atforetalion                   2 dye             Te    rs                                         15                154
Afforestatlon                  2 dye             H      ter/lDs                                    7                61
I dys            Aei tsxi011                                      10                921
Field Day                      I dye              Famurs Graos                                     9                s?
Iteery bhaq      t             5 dye             5a.nIs Grops                                     3                 66
*                         5 dye             Feamus aroups                                   go               1401
*                         5 dye             Youts                                            1i               500
S dyp             Teadhrr                                         14                206
*                         * d               Han ie sters/Z.O'e                               3                 66
Nurs   Mww       I             3 p dAgrltx /1                                                     10                Itt
Afforsatlom                    S dp              I _ s Clubs                                      2                 706
*                         5 dye             Femur Clubs                                      U               1351
*                         I dye             Youths                                          1                464
3 dye            Teohers                                          16                192
*                         3 dye             Humsters/LO's                                    0                 63
2 dye            AgrItex/l                                        13                114
Field Dys                      I dy             Parmed  Groups                                     s               1334
A                                                               _



ANNEX I
-  46                                         Table  10
TABU  IO(eont)                   Page  2  of 5
198_
Nursery Minagewmnt              S dys             Waein's groups                                    40               800
5 dys             Farner                                            79              1608
5 dys             Youths                                            24               605
3 dys             Teachers                                          20               310
"                         3 dys             MH/E.O's                                           15                80
3 dys             Agritex/NWR                                       1S               132
Attorestation                   S dys             Wamens Clubs                                       38               910
5 dys             Famer Clubs                                       68              1S86
r'       ,5 dys                              Youths                                            22               69S
3 dys             Teachers                                          20               311
3 dys             HMUE. 's                                          12               206
2 dys             Agritex/NR                                        1s               211
Field Day                       1 dy              FarnTr Groups                                      15              1449
198?
Nursery MNbnaguvmt              S dys             Wbmn groups                                       25                500
5 dys             Fomrer groups                                     30               600
n'                        3 dys              Youths                                             7               144
3 dys             Tesehenr                                          10                140.
2 dys             HE/E.O's                                           6                .66
I dys            Agr itu/? t   
Afforestetion                   5 dys             Wbnens Clubs                                       20               450
S dys             FQmrr Clubs                                       40               590
3 dye             Youths                                            10                140
3 dye             Teaehenr                                          11                120
n'                        2 dye              H9I1O's                                           5                60
5'                         I dy              Agitex                                             6                65
Field Day                       1 dy              Fems                                                7               816
Nursery iuw matt                3 dys             "NMns Growp                                        20               300
3 dys             Frnur Groups                                      25               541
3 dys             Youths                                             6                124
*                         3 dye              Teaohers                                           8                102
2 dye              MW.O's                                            5                60
*                         I die              Agriteui                                           5                58



ANNN a I
-  47  -                               Table  10
Page 3 of 5
Attorestation                  3 dys             Wow's Groups                                    t5                280
3 dys            Foir Croups                                      30                540
3 dys            Youths                                            7                120
3 dys            Teachers                                          7                100
2 dys            HlVE.O's                                          7                 65
2 dys            AGrltex/RB                                        6                 40
1 dy             Field days                                        6               680
1980 - up to breb
Nursery bMnagunt               2 dys .          Wmn's GroulH                                      4                 80
2 dy             Fomur Groups                                      6                120
2dy              Youths                                            5                100
2 dys             Teahers                                          4            _    4
2 dys            IWMO.'s                                           4                 36
2 dys            Agrlteail                                         S                 4
Attorestatlon                  2 dys                   Group                                      4                 84
2 dye            Fmur GroSp                                        6                116
n                        3 dy              Youths                                            5
2 dyes           fTmW er                                           4                 38
o                        3 dp              IWtEO.'s                                          4                 34
2 dye            Atitex/                                           5                 48



ANNEX I
- 48 -                             Table 10
Page 4 of 5
INAIM RIVED m  W  MM;r STP
19E7-93
Transport MNnegamnt & Fleet Control             3 dys             iAst. AMmin Officer          Harare
Inventory Mbnaegnt & Fleet Control              3 dys
Foundation for Wbod Stove Disrunsnation         3 dys             Planner
Progr  a developmunt iorkshop                   2 dys                 n
Tropical Soil Biology & Fertility               3 dws            Ebologist
Principles of supervision                       3 dys             6 D.F.O.s                       " (ZN)
Supervisor s %brkshop                           3 dys             5 Foreters
Junior    _ nagemnt Development Progwm_         S dys             6 Foreters                      U
IM  up to 1keb                                                                                        _-_
Middle Mkagrs Dnelopmnt Program                 4 dys             4 Foresters                  Herare (ZN)
Introduction to lbnegmnt                        t dys            DvisibonAl 1k1irg              Irn r (N13YK)
Louis Allen bhnuu.g  t Cnrse                    S dyp             Prow. Mqes                   Harare
Micro COmuters COurse                            15 dye           Div. Amsomtmt                 U.Z. (Harmn )
Mioro COmputers COurn                            15 dys           Mes. MAt. (N & R 
Pewrs.u l AdbnistratIon                          1 1*             NLS.F.                       Zim (Severe)
Rnte Sa Ing                                      1 *&             soboglit                      F.A.0. (Q er*e)
WX Toeumclcl _ tlqW                              1                NLS.P.                        Lebotim
1*rld am*k Pro mIbNNO bnm                        2 dye pLN.S.                                   Harmr
Projest AdministSd|                             2 dys p            S.F                         thrve
DfuesivO Ilwviu                                  I I'             bivers                        SHevr
Prof. Mo. to *A                                  is               .Sa.F.                       Hirv  (ZNo
Mddle   _       _     .4 dye                                      P.r.O.                          rv  (Zoo
Agrotovtry                                       I *              as. Off leer                  Ziubw



I ~~~~~~~~ I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
UiI       IS Ii
U~~2 !b]39|33l    1X3Zi   };l  



- DU -
ZrMBA-WE RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT (Cr. 1368 ZIM)
ANNEX I
PROJ=   COMPLETION  REPORT                              Table il
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  OF NURSERYK PR__RAIME
FISCAL  YEAR ( sts are  n Z5
1984    1985      1986       1987       1988        1989
NURSERY INCOME
SALE OF SEEDLI.GS               16 981   28 407    57 329    13M "f    64 496        86 76C
INTEREST RECEIVED                    0   12 692    47 923    70 099    73 316        93 02E
PROFIT/LOSS SALE OF F/ASEIS          0         0     1 954          0   ( 1 291)   ( 9 893
MISCELLANEOUS                                509     3211       7 120     8852           94
SUB TOTAL INCOME                 16 981   41 608   110 417   130 399   145 373    169 99E
NURSERY DIRECT COST
DIRECT EXPENSES                 97 710  144 556   320 170   306 046   375 967    446 713
DEPRECIATION OF F/ASSETS         6 398    4 976    46 827    54 722    64 907    140 95C
INTEREST                             0       145         0          0          0          0
NURSERY SITE COSTS               7 409   12 014           0         0          0          0
SUB TOTAL DIRECT COSTS         111 517  161 691   366 997   360 768   440 874  * 587 663
OVERHEADS                  206 036  160 956   539 550   605 625  1 81 23 _ 2 481 968
SUB TOTAL DIRECT COSTS
PLUS OVERHEADS             317 553  322 647   906 547   966 393  2252127   3 069 631
BALANCE
BALANCE, C(CLUDING OVIER 6      94 536  120 083   256 580   230 369   295 501    417 655
BALANCE, INCLUDING OEAM    300 572  281 039   796 130   835 994  2106 754  2 899 633
SEMELIRNG PROWCTOR 1 000        m
SEEDLINGS SOLD                 566,0    946;9      1 910,9   1 772,6   2 149,8    2 892,3
FREE ISSUES                    189,-1    202,7       193,3      243,3      383,3    1 116,1
DEM4ONSTRATION PLOTS            48,9    179,3        225,8       81,3      178,6       35,2
DEATHS OR CULLS                262,1    194,3         171,5      72,1      342,6      556,0
BALANCE UNUSEt                 281,9    235,5         155,8     815,0       27,9      235,3
TOTAL SEEDLINqJUDUCTION.
PLUS BAww.CEc        FM       1 348,0   7%,7       2 657,3   2 984,3   3 082,2    4 934,9
SEEDLING COSKS ANS SUBS7IDTES
DIRECT COSTS PER SEEDLING        0.08v    0.09          0,14      0,12       0,14       0,1.
f"    n  PEW M= 1ER~ - 
SEML    n 1XB oAH]  PER.  .   0,24      0,18-        0,34       0,32      0,73        0,6:
ni=  PER W D SMDEl>]             0,03      0,04        0,06       0,07       0,07       0,Ot
SUBSIDY PER SOLD SEEDLING
EXCLUDING OVERHEADS            0,05     0,05         0,08      .0,05      0,08        0,0(
TICLUDING OVERHEADS            0,21     0,14          0,28      0,25       0,66       0,5
SUBSIDY AS PERCENT OF COSTS
CXCCLUDING OVERHEADS         53,7%    52,2%         58,1%      39,1"      52,7%      St,8'
NTCLUD0T''5 OFE.'4AnS       87,3%    76,1%         63,1%      77,3%      90,7:       90.7



ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE FORESTRY COMMISSION'S.
STATE FORESTRY DIVISION (SFD)
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
Fm3 T m.    I. ~              ~ flm a
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a lc .c  ,  c
.  w  El3        .       1E EJ  E 51               z t~~~~~~~~~~~w~ ~
s  1B   1;A1                     I       I   1  41 Z  Z  41~~ --  at
i aa E S S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1K;se   



OwtFflk10AL S29attmz or D- KSE3UY com-fss!ot
"'Ji
I     a1iwf _        _
USC8n IID tSLU       .
I           l
-
I1ZZFZZ
,                    I                                                          S
IWI ?WSUU       StAll l(3UT         13DA IM  IrI.                               luI .                KUER  1aA  ,      I. -
I;a cza rs:lo cn Dv.
officer                                                        Ofiern                          lfeitm
.mg     X                                                                                          ,gi*At |t
PlenisUose,                               X.g ler.et 1D t       -                                       r
r . .tt Officer )       lest
VoxWn lisa. ~ ~     ~      ~      la"!n                                                     ff
-| i1etSl               lx.Otc|             d  tataao1turtt   |                                           zeowi|
3iiioa                  tlfd  tis                              II!I
cqta            r        | t  Officer  |        h1JrCu1azert                                             L.pCi/   
_  z~~~~~~~~~~dam. Office I
I  erucss    I.
n  Ot'tcer  }                    [ "~~~~~~~~~nticdn l



MAP SECTION



28                                                                                                ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD  167
ZIMv~8~4BABWE                                                                    j                  _i                                      A -        -                                   OCTOBER I
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT                                                                              y                                               j ,
16'                                NATURAL RFGIONS                                                                                                        f-       _ -
RELATFD FARMING SYSTEoS           -      Molor Roads                                         e
=iSpec  Ized and D,vers,fed             -     Secondary Roads
Farom,nef-g Reg,on                        Rrwy
rder.see farereng RegroerR,verr
ED&  I -tens,v    e FormIng Reg,on        sMrr  ite
L wsem. ntensee Frm ng Regor              a   Other Selected Towns              .                     1       / 7
ALSiem, ntes've Fo,mi,,g RegrOr              `nentonlBuinoe 
1T)Fxtrer.s,,e Fo-mnq Regron
N                                                                            I    -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~/// ~~~~~~~~~~      HA~~~~RARE
10.
h_,ed,i ShflW OC b; 
f \-X maX'\ (gt A,,., at b
WVo,'d\ Saab'',. """X                                                                                    '""'' 8cb ins
ih,   . .te,  In,in   a ... . "o . C I. C
25,                      26'
2
ZAMBIA            ,.
~~~~~  ~ ~     ~     0           50        50               00
SOUTH 
/ AFRICA
do     SWAZiLAN!1 A 01 "                                                                             311                                                                 (



23-                               2?'                               30'                                32                                           SEPTEMB
KlrM(TlTlR5 0  50    100    ISO    200    250                          '                                                                        ZIMBABWE
MILf',0     50      -   100          150                                                M                                     RURAL AFFORESTATION  PROJE
1o                                                       . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  41   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l           PROJECT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,es                                          \                                      Pro1eol area boundairy
t  kU>G @f f sxPtzoo    >e_         Q b                 |   fo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lrararwaedlos progium in coroaun
S;to "i >   " :   .,9 tC<NARYN  <_                  '    ;:1 81OckpicnlotionprBlkpnrnraaisI
*ue'    t   /                 (       Xi .                        %..n*            (P ttRwxaiRusHor  Bl,ck plantaron program nubana
.'1~4fW(NRUSHINGA                         Communl ldonds
v 4 4 q 4 T 5 p t t F g cb t x @ _ . _ De    _ -             Raioi~                            us                    0n          arn lan
/  ~~           ~~f~~~?ro-.                                           AIU                     S/a- F.Ir aI-d
ZZrl                                                             -          -r   Sakr   A   C>no6=-
- _9g1 : . .:2d <2- 0   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
I~~~~ ~~~~~ PI                                                                                             AlmN,- .k
.bi             I0 TTo-n
/  a      | L V                 /       MA/ ND  ..                . . /      a R
oar~~        -     ~Mao rod,,
AR                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Secodary rods
/N~~A   f                            CHG1N    Nwo? CH/
GOKWE  (   T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                     Rivers~~~P-  b.. d.
22    hJmssh  beh  ned  th rid am s s ka s                              Galnsaw  haga -hl crmws AC            .                          -..   Proaca  bo*<22  FR|Ca ndnis.
0f~~~~~~~~~~i                                                                                                   Ih AdS ;h DVrr h r rDhdr dnmnv m cdhe; t-/
rr/    J-                                                                                                    Intrna -ional bonae vm  dhv
A IVE                 a Q.e             R~~~~~~~~~~CruboR
2cr ld  m v-ll3Nn                                                                                  N D A rh   8 / K / TAsh      ..9rnruAv m d  m r  I~b 86E r d e 
I'eewla=cs  o ?vch ZoWAdos eX 2leE    -nO X TNZA w                                                                     NIA
~~3  C.)  T   S   W   A   N   A    ~~~~~~~~~~~GER IG
MA NO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ABA..
NAMIBIo ]~ ~ mM6
f~~~~~~vf
SOUTH   ariacO
b-2 6 l                                                              S O U T HAAF  R IA



