Document of
The World Bank                                  ,
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4140-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
April 18, 1983
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =           Z$0.92
Z$1             =           US$1.09
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)                             2.47 Acres
1 Kilometer (km)                           0.624 Miles
1 Sq. Kilometer (km2)         =            0.386 Sq. Miles = 100 ha
1 Kilogram (kg)                            2.2046 Pounds
1 Metric ton (ton)            =            1,000 kg = 2,204.6 Pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AGRITEX = Department of Agricultural Technical & Extension Services
CA       =  Communal Area
FC       =  Forestry Comm:ission
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND
A.  The Agricultural Sector  ..........................                1
B. Forestry Sub-Sector ..                                              4
C.  Rural Afforestation    ........................ .9
D.  Land Tenure and Land Use    .........................             10
II.   THE PROJECT
A.  Project Rationale and Design   ....           .................   12
B. General Description  .............   14
C.  Detailed Features    ..       ........................... ..      16
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A.  Cost Estimates    ......        .........................  ...    24
B.  Financing Plan    ......         .............................    26
C.  Procurement    .......      ...............................       26
D.  Disbursements    ..................................... .......    27
E.  Accounts, Audit and Reporting   ....................              27
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Overall Coordination and Design   ..................              28
B.  The Forestry Commission    ................      ..........       29
C.  AGRITEX and Forestry Extension          .     ...................  30
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation               ........................  31
E.  Training and Promotion    .................      ..........       32
V.    PRODUCTION AND YIELDS    ......         ............................     32
VI.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Benefits    .........................................             34
B.  Financial Returns and Fiscal Impact   ....           ..........   35
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Zimbabwe in
May-June, 1982. Mission members were Ajit Sidhu (Mission Leader), Amal
Bose, Horst Wagner, Diane White and Rajah Ranasinghe (IDA), and Michael
Horowitz (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
C.   Economic Analysis    ................................                   36
D.  Project Risks    ....................................                    38
VII.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION    ..........................                     39
Supporting Tables:
Table   1  Wood Deficit Areas    .................................                     40
2  Phasing of Seedling Production    .....................                    41
3  Wood Production    ....................................                    42
4  Phasing of Project Costs    .....              ......................      43
5  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements    .............             ...       44
6  Implemenation Schedule    .............................                    45
7  Energy Equivalent Costs of Common Fuels    ....... .....                   46
8  Economic Rate of Return    ............................                    48
Annex:      Selected Documents Available in Project File                               49
Chart:      Project Organization - Illustrative Diagram                                51
Maps:       Zimbabwe, Natural Regions (IBRD 16755)
Zimbabwe, Project Areas (IBRD 16587)



ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
Introduct )n
1.01      Zimbabwe occupies a land area of approximately 39 million ha and
has a population of about 8 million people, growing at an average rate of
3.6% p.a.1/ There are four main topographic areas: (i) highveld, a
plateau at an altitude of about 1,300 m running through the center of the
country from southwest to northeast; (ii) the middleveld, at about 900 m
extending on either side of the highveld; (iii) the lowveld, at about 500 m
located in the southeast and northwest corners of the country; and, (iv) a
high altitude ridge running along the eastern border with Mozambique.
Superimposed on this physical pattern is a rainfall pattern which is not
entirely related to altitude, and which falls off from north to south,
from about 1,000 mm in the north to about 300 mm in the south. Rainfall is
monomodal, from about October to March, sometimes with a mid-season dry
spell about January. The most influential climatic characteristic for
agriculture is the combination of a warm, wet, summer and a cold, dry,
winter. The agricultural potential of the country has been surveyed by the
Ministry of Agriculture and categorized into five agroecological regions
(see Map 16755). Approximately 17% is suited for intensive crop
production, 18% for cropping on a semi-intensive basis, and the balance for
limited drought-resistant crop production and ranching; in fact about half
of the land has poor crop production potential.
1.02      96% of the population is indigenous, i.e. of African origin, and
the rest of European origin and others. The Africans can be divided into
two broad cultural groups, the Shona and the Ndebele. The Shona occupy the
region around the north and east of the country, including Harare, and the
Ndebele occupy the region in the south-west, including Bulawayo. The Shona
constitute about 77% of the population, the Ndebele 17% and other minor
groups about 6%. The Shona are a very loose confederation of seven tribal
divisions. The two major tribes have a somewhat similar social
organization.
Structure and Performance
1.03      Zimbabwe's economy is dualistic in character, with substantial
differences in income and wealth between sectors and population groups, and
between sub-sectors within agriculture. Its industry, commerce and
commercial agriculture are fairly well developed, contrasting sharply with
non-commercial agriculture. Historically, there have been three sub-
sectors within the agricultural sector (although this pattern is now
changing slowly), geographically organized as follows:
1/   Present population estimates are based on projections from 1969 census
using the commonly accepted growth rate of 3.6%.



(a) Communal Areas (former Tribal Trust Land Areas) totalling
16.3 million ha land inhabited by the indigenous African
population comprised of approximately 700,000 families.
Land is held under customary or traditional communal tenure
with individual usufruct rights assigned by hereditary
chiefs.
(b)  Commercial (now General) Areas covering 15 million ha under
freehold title, cultivated by 5,800 farm families almost
wholly of European origin.
(c)  African Purchase Areas, covering 1.5 million ha with about
8,500 farm families of African origin, land being held under
tenancy or freehold titles.
1.04      Agriculture and forestry contributed an estimated 18% to the GDP
in 1981, compared to 31% by manufacturing and mining. The aggregate value
of agricultural production that year was Z$738 million and of agricultural
exports (including processed products) Z$437 million, constituting 44% of
total exports. In contrast to its low share of GDP, agriculture provides
the highest employment of any sector, with at least 70% of all families
deriving some income from agriculture. The small share of agriculture in
the national product is explained both by the high level of development of
the manufacturing and service sectors, and the relatively low labor
productivity in agriculture.
1.05      "Commercial" and "communa]L  agriculture play completely different
roles in the economy, but are strongly interdependent, just as agriculture
is interdependent with the other sectors. Commercial areas comprise most
of the better quality land, on which high yields and large surpluses for
consumption and export have been achieved, contributing to the diversifica-
tion and industrialization of the economy. On the other hand, the communal
areas generate only around 15% of total agricultural production and little
surplus or exports. Nevertheless, these areas have played the important
roles of providing subsistence to the bulk of the population and a surplus
work force to the other sectors. Wlile over two-thirds of families derive
some agriculture-related income, onLy about a third of the families are
completely dependent on agriculture for their livelihood.
Communal Areas
1.06      The Communal Areas (CAs) are the target of the Rural
Afforestation Project. About 75% of the CAs are in Natural Regions IV and
V (Map 16755), the poorer climatic zones, which are marginal for
agricultural activities. Even so, less than an estimated 40% of land in
CAs suitable or marginally suitable for cropping is actually cultivated.
Most of the uncultivated land is used for livestock grazing on unimproved
natural pasture. While individuals or families are allowed the use of land
for cropping, grazing land is communal (para 1.35). The CAs are occupied
predominantly by semi-subsistence farms of average size 3 ha, with the
family having access to another 5 to 10 ha of overstocked communal grazing
land. On the whole, the CAs are overpopulated, beyond the carrying
capacity of the land, with heavy to very severe pressure on arable and
pastoral lands in most areas. However, population densities range from 10
to 40 persons per sq km, so that there are areas of comparatively larger



- 3 -
farms. There are also wide differences between farmers in terms of farm
management capability, labor and motivation. Throughout the CAs there is a
group of progressive, market-oriented farmers with a vigorous "Master
Farmer" movement. Further, there are substantial regional differences in
production systems, particularly between the pastoral systems of the south
west and the predominantly agricultural systems of Mashonala l. In most
cases, competition for land use is severe.  On the one hand, overgrazing is
a common feature since CA inhabitants try to maximize returns from this
communal or "free" resource.  On the other hand, low soil fertility,
population pressure and lack of irrigation are now resulting in increasing
land being brought under cultivation, with a consequent reduction in
grazing land. These factors together with an increasing demand for wood
from the growing population, has put severe pressure on woodland resources
in the CAs.
1,07      Farming practices in the CAs are generally iot unsatisfactory,
with almost universal ox-cultivation and use of hybrid seeds. Average
yields are low, obviously, because of environmental and physical
constraints, and lack of infrastructure, services and technologies. The
CAs have not been well serviced with roads, marketing facilities, input
supply or agricultural extension based on adaptive research. Prior to
Independence, the Government's well-staffed agricultural extension service
was focussed on the commercial agriculture sub-sector. Among indigenous or
African farmers, extension was biased towards Master Farmers, who were
considered innovators and capable of adopting the essentially commercial
farm-oriented recommendations. The sub-optimal performance of CA farmers
is reflected in the low level of income, which averages an estimated Z$180
p.a. including subsistence, with an additional Z$90 from remittances from
absentee male members of the family.
1.08      CA inhabitants face seemingly insuperable problems.  In trying to
deal with them with very limited financial resources, the Government is
confronted with an array of difficult choices. Possible solutions within
CAs include availability of land in underpopulated areas or pockets,
improvement of services and provision of known technologies for more
intensive cultivation. Much of the land problem arises from communal
grazing ownership. The situation cannot be rectified by dealing with
livestock alone, but by better management of land and other production
assets, taking an integrated approach to land use involving cropping, tree
growing and livestock raising.  Such an approach is not easy to foster, due
to insufficient skills, organization, motivation or incentives. Outside
the CAs, transfer of people to the Commercial Areas is now legally
possible, although this can absorb very limited numbers, given the high
cost of resettlement (para 1.09). Finally, part of the solution would lie
outside the agricultural sector. Zimbabwe's industrializing economy has
evolved beyond the stage at which low agricultural productivity and on-farm
underemployment must be dealt with in situ. Already a sizeable proportion
of CA residents derive income from non-agricultural activities, and
interdependencies between traditional agriculture and the modern sectors
provide the potential for gradually transforming agriculture.
Government Policies and Programs
1.09      The Government's fundamental objective in agriculture is stated
to be growth with equity, which embraces a wide range of other objectives,



- 4 -
perhaps not all mutually consistent: fair distribution of land ownership,
reduced poverty in rural areas, increased productivity and employment,
maintenance of food self-sufficiency, an increased role for agriculture as
a foreign exchange earner and a supplier of inputs to industry, integration
of the commercial and small farm sub-sectors, land conservation, regional
balance in development, and the development of human resources. The
Government's priorities and programs are expected to be formulated in a
Provisional Three-Year Plan, which will be published in the very near
future. A major element of national developmental activity is an ambitious
program of resettlement of landless in CAs (or those with insufficient
land) in Commercial Areas in cultivable plots and grazing lands adequate to
generate a defined minimum level of income, now Z$500 p.a. The
Government's concern has been redistribution of incomes with simultaneous
maintenance of the high levels of aegricultural production from the
Commercial Areas.  It should be possible to meet this dual objective since
the commercial sector's output comes from a relatively small productive
core of irrigated estates and efficient cash crop growers, leaving a
substantial amount of underutilized or abondoned land. However, in reality
settlement, even on a larger scale, would make only slow inroads into the
population problem of the CAs. The problem is being therefore addressed on
other fronts including within the CAs themselves, with planned improvements
in extension services, adaptive research and infrastructure. The
Government is also examining issues relating to land tenure and land use
(para 1.40).
Bank Operations in Agriculture
1.10      An outline of some major issues in the agricultural sector is
contained in the Bank's Zimbabwe Country Economic Memorandum of
April 20, 1981 (Report No. 3234b-ZIM). At the Government's request, the
Bank is carrying out an agricultural sector study, dealing with the
production, cost-revenue, employment and equity aspects of the four main
development options viz. CAs, settlement, irrigation and commercial
agriculture, with an examination also of off-farm employment for CA
dwellers. The first Bank Group project for Zimbabwe in the agricultural
sector, the Small Farm Credit Project (Cr. 1291-ZIM) was approved by the
Board in September 1982. A national agricultural extension and research
project for possible IFAD-Bank joint financing was negotiated in April,1983
and is expected to be presented to the Board shortly.
B. Forestry Sub-Sector
Resources
1.11      More than 17 million ha, or slightly less than half of the total
land area of Zimbabwe, is covered with forests. An estimated 15 million ha
are open savanna woodlands traditionally exploited for fuelwood and pole
supply, and more than two million ha of indigenous forests are currently
managed as Forest Estates for high quality timber production. In addition,
about 94,000 ha of industrial plantation, mainly of pine and eucalypt have
been established of which about 22,000 ha are State-owned and the remainder
privately-owned. The majority of these plantations are in Manicaland and
at a distance from heavily populated CAs and urban fuelwood markets such
that transport of wastewood for use as fuelwood is not a financially viable
proposition.



- 5 -
1.12      The indigenous woodlands can be divided into four major types:
(a) Msasa/Mnondo association with the dominant species
Brachystegia speciformis and Julbernardia globiflora, covers
the highveld and part of the Kalahari Sands;
kb) Mopani, with its characteristic species Colophospermum
mopani occurs in the south and southeast lowveld and in the
north and northwest adjacent to the Zambesi escarpment;
(c) Mukusi or teak (Baikiaca plurijuga) woodlands are found on
the aeolian Kalahari sands in the north west of the
country. This association is the main indigenous resource
of commercially exploitable timber; and
(d) Other associations, comprising distinguishable areas of
Acacia spp. Burkea africana, Parinari curatellifolia,
Terminalia and Combretum species, are mainly found in
Matabele land Watershed area between Bulawayo and Gweru.
1.13      About 6.5 million ha of the country's indigenous woodlands are
located in communal lands, of which 174,000 ha cover watershed areas and
are protected and controlled by the Forestry Commission. In addition, some
64,000 ha predominantly Msasa and Mukusi woodland type areas have been
declared reserves for controlled forestry production under the supervision
of the Forestry Commission, most of which are in areas of low production
density. The remaining woodlands in the communal areas are used freely for
fuelwood and poles supply, as grazing land and reserve land for
agriculture. However, these open savanna woodlands have a low timber
density, are in general of poor quality and slow to regenerate.  In areas
where population is concentrated, the woodland cover is seriously reduced,
and the collection of firewood is becoming more difficult and time
consuming.
Contribution of Forests to the Economy
1.14      Non-industrial wood production.  Wood is the most important
source of energy for domestic heating and cooking of the rural and the poor
urban population. About 6 million people or 85% of the total population
use wood for cooking and heating.  Total volume of fuelwood used in
Zimbabwe is estimated to be close to 5 million m3 annually that is about
81% of total harvested wood in the country. In addition, the country is
estimated to produce about 700,000 m3 of poles, posts and other minor
construction wood.2/ Assuming a retail price of Z$15/m3 for fuelwood and
Z$35/m3 for poles and other construction wood, the total value of non
industrial wood would be in the order of Z$90 to Z$100 million p.a.
1.15      Industrial wood production.  The sawmilling industry produces
about 200,000 m5 of sawnwood with a retail value of about Z$20 million.
Sawn soft wood accounted for 82% of total output, the remaining 18% is
hardwood from plantations and indigenous forests. The sawmilling industry
2/   Source - Whitsun Foundation.



- 6 -
is concentrated in Manicaland where 50% of the country's sawmills are
located. The combined production of the two plywood, blackboard and veneer
manufacturers was 14,500 m3 in 1980/81 with a total value of about Z$9.0
million. In addition, the country has two particle board mills with an
output of 16,600 m3 in 1980/81 value at about Z$4.6 million. However, the
capacity utilization of all these mills is about 50%.
1.16      Zimbabwe has two pulp mills producing 18,400 tons of groundwood
and 11,000 tons of semi-chemical pulp, which are partly supplying three
paper mills with a total output of paper and paper-board of 61,000 tons in
1980/81, with a value of about Z$20 million.
1.17      Taking into account sleepers, parquet blocks and other minor wood
products, the total industrial and non-industrial wood production is valued
at about Z$150 million.
1.18      Foreign trade for most basic wood products is rather limited.
Imports, in particular of sawnwood and paper and paper board have been
greatly reduced from the level of the early 1970'se The main reason for
the decrease has been Government's promotion of high self-sufficiency. The
domestic building industry and furniture manufacture will remain the key
markets for the Zimbabwean wood industries. National economic development
is creating a stronger building market, and increasing household purchasing
power is expected to increase the demand for furniture. The expansion of
the domestic market could give an impetus to restructuring and modernizing
the industry, providing a sound basis for competitive exports in the long
run. Sawn softwood, particleboard and softwood plywood are likely to have
the best export potential.
Government Institutions
1.19      The two main institutions that will be directly involved in the
implementation of the Project are the Forestry Commission (FC) and the
Department of Agricultural Technical and Extension Services (AGRITEX).
1.20      The Commission was established in 1954, under the Forest Act
(Chapter 125), as the successor to the Department of Forestry in the
Ministry of Agriculture. The Commission is a statutory body with
semi-autonomous status under the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Tourism. The Commission is responsible for the administration of State
forests, the conservation of timber resources and the regulation and
control of forests and forest produce. It has an advisory role to the
Government on forest policy matters. Its other functions include those for
forest research and resource surveys.
1.21      The main activities of the Forestry Commission have hitherto been
centered on (a) establishing, maintaining and exploiting commercial
plantations mainly in the Eastern Districts; and (b) managing and
protecting some 800,000 ha of indigenous woodland in northwestern
Matabeleland and the Midlands, whose exploitation is mainly carried out by
private enterprise under Commission supervision.   The Commission has had a
sporadic advisory role to the Government on the CAs but has not operated in
these areas except for occasional surveys.



1.22      Since Independence, the Government is placing high priority on
development of CAs including rural afforestation. As a result, the
Commission will now operate in a much wider field than before. In 1982 the
Commission underwent a major reorganization, from an essentially monolithic
two division organization into a functional structure with separation of
operations and administration, and operations divided into cc mercial and
indigenous forestry, research and rural forestry. The creation of a new
Rural Afforestation Division was a principal feature, and reflects the
Government's new emphasis on communal lands.
1.23      The FC has an eight-member Board of Commissioners, which has
delegated much of its powers to the Director and management. The
Commission is virtually independent on technical matters of the Ministry of
Natural Resources and Tourism, which controls its financing. Its Board is
responsible to this Ministry on policy matters. The FC is considered a
"second category" statutory body, which places it at a disadvantage
vis-a-vis first category bodies in regard to its salaty structure, but
still at an advantage compared to Government departments. The Commission
has been a competent and financially stable body within its commercial and
conservation activities. In recent years, its trading activities have been
profitable; in FY81, revenues and profits from those activities were Z$4.5
million and Z$0.9 million, respectively. The FC receives Government
budgetary allocations for its operations in the CAs. Rural afforestation
introduces new dimensions. The FC's recent reorganization is intended to
improve management development, coordination, delegation and financial
management. The FC is considering adopting a policy statement. The draft
statement differentiates the Commission's role as forest enterprise and
forest authority and, in the latter role, indicates its responsibility to
"manage, develop and utilize forests on Communal Lands, for the benefit of
the community". Its role as a developmental agency, especially in relation
to CA inhabitants, needs to evolve.
Forestry Research
1.24      Forest research is carried out by the Research Division in the
Forestry Commission. The Division comprises the Forest Research Center in
Harare and three research stations in Melsetter, Gungunyana and Chesa. In
the past, research was focused on new species introduction, provenance
testing and seed collection. Also, trials had been established for spacing
and thinning. Under these programs, the Research Division established
about 4,000 trial plots with more than 200 coniferous or broadleaved tree
species. The research activities were oriented towards commercial and
industrial plantations, with little attention given to the problems and
needs of communal lands which are predominently located in the semi-arid
areas. However, since independence greater efforts are being made to
develop a research program for the communal lands.  In order to
provide the logistic base for forestry research in communal lands, the FC
has upgraded the temporary research station at Chesa to a fully equipped
research station for carrying out trials on fast growing species in
semi-arid areas, and for testing and developing an integrated farming
system involving crops, livestock and trees.  Canada, through the
International Development Research Center, is providing assistance towards
the development of this program. Total cost for establishment of trials,
equipment, and consultants is about US$300,000.



- 8 -
1.25      To further strengthen the research program, the Government of
Australia is considering providing assistance for seed collection in
Australia, equipment, and technical assistance for seed production and wood
technology and entomological laboratories. In addition, provision would be
made for a sociologist to carry out surveys on acceptability of various
tree species for fuel or poles. Total Australian contribution would be
about US$300,000. However, the proposal is still being processed, and
hence it is not yet clear if this assistance program would be available to
FC to strengthen its research program. As a contingency, therefore,
provision would be made in the proposed Rural Afforestation Project to
include major components of the proposed program should the Australian
assistance not materialize.
Training
1.26      Zimbabwe has no graduate training facilities for foresters.  For
the middle and lower level of the public administration and the private
commercial sector the Forestry Commission established the Nyabara Forestry
Training Center in 1977. The Center presently offers two resident courses,
the forest rangers certificate course of 48 weeks duration (16 students)
and the diploma course of two years duration which started in March 1981
(10 students). The Center plans to expand both courses and double the
output of both certificate and diploma level students. Courses are also
given to forestry workers and since 1982 for nurserymen in rural
afforestation. The courses are residential and of three days to four weeks
duration. For the expansion of the courses on the middle and lower level
particularly in the new field of rural afforestation, UNDP/FAO has recently
started a technical assistance project. The Project provides 2 expatriate
training officers, equipment and fellowships. The total UNDP/FAO
contribution is US$400,000.
AGRITEX
1.27      The Department of Agricultural Technical and Extension Services
(AGRITEX) in the Ministry of Agriculture provides extension services
nationally.  This department was established in December 1981 by the
amalgamation of two departments under different ministries which provided
extension services separately to commercial farmers and CA farmers,
respectively. AGRITEX is organized into two divisions, one for technical
services, comprising a number of specialized units in headquarters with
subject matter specialists in the field, usually at the provincial level;
and the other for field services which is set up in line with the
administrative structure, from the provinces through CAs to districts,
ultimately reaching groups of farmers.  In the field, the District
Agricultural Extension Officer oversees Extension Supervisors, who in turn
are each in charge of 10 to 12 extension workers. The overall average
ratio of extension workers to farm families is 1:800. Extension staff are
generalists, working on a farm systems approach. Of the seven technical
services branches, those which would be involved in the Project are Crop
Production, Training and Planning. The Crop Production Branch has one
Forestry Specialist whose task is to promote forestry extension in AGRITEX,
mainly through training and planning. The Training Branch is responsible
for curriculum development, extension methods, mass media, evaluation and



- 9 -
socio-economic surveys. AGRITEX has a central training center for all
staff, located at Domboshawa. It also has a forest nursery at Mhonoloro,
with a small training facility.
1.28      Like other newly reorganized Government departments, AGRITEX has
lost some e-perienced senior staff, although vacancies are expected to be
most acute at the field level. AGRITEX's highest priority is service to CA
farmers. Its technical competence is considered to be good, but requires
further re-orientation towards the CA farmers. A proposed national
agricultural extension and research project (para 1.10) is expected to
strengthen AGRITEX's entire national extension program over a four-year
period.
C. Rural Afforestation
Past Attempts at Afforestation
1.29      The problem of depleting sources of wood in CAs has been
recognized by Government since the 1930s but the attempts made over the
years to resolve the problem through the establishment of eucalypt
plantations have met with little success. Rural afforestation was
generally accorded a minor role in the development policy of communal areas
and was afforded the minimum of funds and staff. There were, however, some
areas where woodlots were established at the initiative of individual
officers but due to frequent changes in staff and the war, these too made
little progress. Changes in Government administrative organization and in
responsibilities for extension services have also hindered the development
of rural afforestation. About 4,000 ha of eucalyptus plantations were
established, about half of which were family woodlots ranging in size from
a few trees to about 0.5 ha.  The rest of the plantations consist of
District Council woodlots, most of which were originally established by the
Government financed African Development Fund, and Government plantations.
The family or individually established woodlots are generally the most
efficiently managed. Trees from the various plantations/woodlots have been
used mainly for poles and for fuel only where the indigenous woodland has
been completely depleted.
1.30      The Government also financed the establishment of 34 nurseries in
six Provinces to supply seedlings at nominal prices. The nurseries were
generally established with inadequate supervision or control. Currently
only three of those nurseries are operative to any extent, with the nursery
at Chiota CA selling about 80,000 seedlings annually over the last two
years. It is estimated that there are about 200 woodlots planted in this
area ranging from 0.1 ha to 3 ha. Nearly every school has established a
small woodlot. However, detailed information and assessment of the
situation in this and other CAs is lacking. AGRITEX produced about 1.6
million seedlings (mainly eucalyptus) in 1981, in small nurseries in
various parts of the country. The seedlings were distributed free of
charge. However, there has been no follow-up on this tree planting program
and little information is therefore available on its performance.
Demand/Supply Position of Wood
1.31      Wood is the most important source of energy for cooking and
heating in the Communal Areas. It is the preferred fuel because it can be



- 10 -
used without complex and relatively costly equipment and can be acquired at
little cost. Wood is also the traditional structural material for home
construction. An average family of eight persons needs about 8 m3 fuelwood
per year and another 2 m3 for construction of dwellings and cattle
kraals.3/
1.32      Estimates of the potential annual production of all wood from
Communal Areas indicate that on a naltional basis, supply exceeds demand by
about 1 million m3 per year. 3/ However, the surplus wood is concentrated
in remote and under populated parts of the country and would not be
economically exploitable for reducing fuelwood deficits in other areas.
Further, this estimated surplus is diminishing due to increasing demand
brought about by population growth and decreasing indigenous woodland
area. A comparison of sustained yield and demand at district levels shows
that 27 districts in the country suffer from a deficit of over 4 m3 per
family per year,4/, 6 districts have a deficit of less than 4 m3 per
family, and 19 districts have a surplus.
1.33      The size of the deficit in the 27 districts would tend to
indicate considerable distress due to shortage of wood. The fact that
extreme distress is not always apparent would indicate that at least a part
of the demand is still being met by the indigenous woodland, not on a
sustained yield basis, but by destruction of the remaining woodland.
Visual observation confirms the extensive denudation of indigenous
woodlands in many communal areas, leading to scarcity of woodfuel and
building poles in the vicinity of villages and to considerable erosion and
degradation of the farming lands.
D. Land Tenure and Land Use
1.34      Major questions facing any afforestation scheme in the CAs are
the availability of land for planting and access to such land, protection
of trees on grazing land and the willingness of inhabitants to plant. The
insufficient carrying capacity of the CAs and the pressures on land from
competitive uses have been indicated, as also some possible solutions
within and outside CAs (paras 1.06 and 1.08). Cultivated areas are being
expanded largely at the expense of grazing land. Given the overstocking in
CAs, protection of trees on grazing as well as cultivated lands would be an
important consideration in any afforestation scheme. Communal rights of
grazing create additional difficulties.  Another aspect of the matter is
that the fuelwood shortage is estimated to be most serious in high
population density areas with very little spare land capacity, so that even
if inhabitants of these areas perceiLve the wood crisis, their response is
likely to be meagre. Thus, different types of solutions will be called for
in terms of land use arrangements and responsibilities for tree planting.
1.35      The complex land tenure in CAs is based on a long-standing
customary system with an overlap of recent legislation which, however, is
in the process of modification. Land in CAs is held under communal tenure,
3/   Estimates by the Forestry Commission and Whitsun Foundation.
4/   The Whitsun Foundation study assumed families with a deficit of over
4 m3 p.a. were in a severe situation.



- 11 -
with traditional tribal authorities (chiefs at the kraal, ward and district
levels) responsible for allocating land to individual household heads, on a
usufructuary basis. Thus, land is vested in individuals, and remains
undisturbed, subject to observance of customary law. Generally,
traditional authorities work on the basis of consensus. Grazing land, in
constrast to residential and agricultural land, is communal. There have
also been group cooperative farming operations on a very limited scale.
1.36      Formal land rights were governed by the Trital Trust Land Act
(TTL Act), which has been replaced by the Communal Lands Act. Under the
new Act, CAs will continue to be vested in the President, but the functions
of former Land Boards are to be replaced by those of elected District
Councils, which will have a role in CA administration. Many provisions of
the TTL Act are carried over into the Communal Lands Act. As before, the
President (Government), in consultation with District Councils, may remove
land from CA jurisdiction or set aside land in the public interest or for
development, subject, however, to compensation to displaced persons, which
would be a restrictive factor. The Councils will be able to give consent
to the use and occupation of land for residence or cultivation, but having
regard to rights under customary law.
1.37      There are thus both practical and customary-legal limitations to
land availability for tree planting. A safe course would be to plant on
arable or residential land under individual control, but such land will be
scarce, except for the relatively small number of above-average size
holdings. Planting on grazing areas would be possible and secure only by
agreement between groups of herdsmen and traditional authorities or
Councils, which will not be easy in overstocked areas. Under the new Bill,
it appears that user rights can be converted into private tenancy rights if
the Government/Councils remove the land in question from CAs or legally set
aside this land, as provided.
1.38      The Forestry Commission is governed by the Forest Act (Cap 125),
and the formal law applicable to forestry in CAs is the Tribal Trust Land
Forest Produce Act (TTLFP Act, Cap 247), which is being amended. CA
inhabitants have the right to cut trees for their own use, except in
specified areas or plantations. The Government has powers, to be continued
under the proposed new law amending the TTLFP Act, to demarcate land to
establish plantations and license parties to exploit them. Under the
proposed law, the Government can delegate to the District Councils the
authority to grant licences or permits, or enter into agreements for
exploitation of produce on public land. The proposed new law should enable
public bodies such as the FC or District Councils to enclose sites on
public land, which are not set aside for any other purpose, for
establishing plantations. In this context, a legal interpretation of the
status of communal grazing land (i.e. whether they have been set aside")
would be of great practical significance.
1.39      Acquisition of land by the FC for its own nurseries or woodlots
would be possible under the Communal Lands Act, which either allow the
Government to issue permits authorizing occupation or use of land in the
inhabitants' interests, or land to be set aside for lease and usage by
bodies such as the FC. Under the Forest Act the FC is empowered to



-- 12 -
purchase or lease land for forest purposes, and can expropriate land for
forest purposes subject to the recommendation of the Natural Resources
Board. In regard to urban plantations, it should be possible, as in the
past, in terms of the Forest Act, to have any undemarcated State land
(i.e. excluding CAs or African Township Areas) to be designated by the FC
as a wood plantation.
1.40      With a view to possible rationalization of rights and obligations
in relation to land in CAs, pertinent legislation on land tenure and
customary practices or law are under review in Zimbabwe. It is exDected
that basic rights pertaining to land, other than forest land, would remain
unaltered, but that more community action or consensus may be sought to
promote development. The Government is examining the broader question of
land use planning, which may require consideration of more comprehensive
changes in the tenure pattern in the CAs.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Design
2.01      The Rural Afforestation Project is intended as the first major
step towards involving the people thlemselves in afforestation.  It should
enhance the currently uneven knowledge available about the attitudes of
residents of CAs towards rural afforestation, and about means of
influencing those attitudes to generate interest in tree planting and
conservation. In recognition of this inadequate current knowledge and the
need to strengthen the capabilities of implementing agencies, this Project
has been designed as a modest first stage (in some respects, pilot) effort,
characterized by selectivity in choice of target areas and populations
within a relatively small scale of operations, and flexibility to
experiment, learn and change course. The Project area would be restricted
to selected highest wood deficit areas and, at the same time, cover the
main ecological zones of Zimbabwe (Map 16587). It would also cover
populations with a variety of socio-economic characteristics so that,
overall, its results could be of practical value for a future major
afforestation program. Thus, the nature of responses to the Project and
the ability of the implementing agencies to analyse and address problems
should enable the proper planning of a more comprehensive program. If
progress with this Project is slower than anticipated, it is flexible
enough to be cut back in size or scope, or to be redirected. For example,
the contents and scope of extension and training could be modified
periodically, as needed; and if seedling sales are below anticipated
levels, nursery development could be curtailed by reductions in numbers or
unit size, thus also reducing capital expenditures. The Project is
expected to be economically justified even if "adoption rates are
considerably lower than projected, as indicated by a sensitivity analysis
(para 6.12). To sum up, the Project would test a number of approaches to
rural afforestation and evaluate the peoples' responses to these, carry out
socio-economic studies, campaign to increase public awareness of the
fuelwood problem, closely monitor and evaluate all field activities and
emphasize improvement of the institutional framework in Government to
implement a rural afforestation program. In this manner, Project
activities should provide a sound basis for undertaking a future broader
national afforestation program.



- 13 -
2.02      Estimates of existing supplies and of present consumption of wood
indicate many deficit districts (para 1.32). At the present consumption
rate i.e. 10 m3 p.a. per family, the demand for fuelwood and poles is
expected to double by year 2000 while the area under indigenous woodlands
which is the source of fuelwood and poles (and hence, the supply) is
expected to be reduced due to increasing demands of the increasing
population. Despite recognition of the problem little has been done to
ensure that future wood supplies will be available to meet the needs of the
growing population.  Steps will have to be taken to encourage the
widespread growing of trees on individual farms, in woodlots and of tree
plantations which are higher yielding than the indigenous woodlands, and
also to conserve the indigenous woodlands to supply the need for fuelwood
and poles. Obviously, tree planting would have to be done within the
constraints imposed by land use and tenure problems, so that selection of
priority or suitable areas for afforestation would require careful
consideration. However, it is extremely unlikely that tree planting by
itself could be expected to fill the total needs for fuelwood and poles of
the country. Alternative sources of energy and more efficient utilization
of energy for cooking, heating and alternative building material will have
to be explored to cater at least for part of the country's requirements.
2.03      At present, there is little hope that alternative sources of
energy will be made available at prices which the rural population in
general can afford to pay.  Rural electrification is unlikely to
materialize because of relatively high costs associated with its
establishement and use.  Imported fossil fuels are prohibitive and are a
drain on foreign exchange.  Coal, which is available within the country, is
unlikely because of its high cost to make a major contribution to the
energy needs in the rural areas.  Solar energy and biogas are still at an
experimental stage. It is clear that while various alternatives will have
to be explored, for the rural areas there is no viable alternative to
fuelwood at present other than burning of crop residues, which on small
farms is likely to have a negative effect on crop yields.
2.04      In the establishment and management of woodlots or plantations,
there are obviously several options which can be considered. Planting of
trees can be by individuals, village groups or committees, schools, women's
clubs, District Councils and other ad hoc or formal groups. Group planting
operations, largely untried so far, would involve developing arrangements
related to (a) ownership, control and management of woodlots; (b)
definition and rights of beneficiaries; (c) planting and management
practices; and (d) arrangements for harvesting and distribution or sale of
produce. A large number of combinations or options are possible in theory,
but it would be important to encourage project area inhabitants to take the
initiative in proposing their own solutions to the problems. The option
that an individual or group of individuals will successfully adopt is the
one best suited to function within the socio-economic situation prevailing
in that particular village or communal area. At this juncture, there is
insufficient knowledge, particularly of socio-economic variables, to plan a
large scale afforestation program with confidence and equally difficult to
predict farmers response to such a program. While indications are that CA
dwellers, particularly women, do perceive the shortage of fuelwood and pole
supply as a problem, it is not clear whether they possess the appropriate



- 14 -
resources of land, labor and capital and are willing and able to invest
them in the planting of trees. There is, therefore, a need to obtain
greater understanding of the situation prevailing in the Communal Areas and
to test various options and approaches to rural afforestation.
2.05      An essential feature of the Project would be the provision of
forestry advisory services or extension. Indeed, the success of the
Project may depend largely on the effectiveness of extension. The form of
extension services is determined by the need for an integrated approach to
the utilization and conservation of land, a limited resource. Thus,
forestry extension would be provided as an element of a comprehensive
extension package for cropping, livestock and conservation. This is the
key reason for the participation in the Project of AGRITEX, the agency
responsible for national extension services, which would work in close
collaboration with FC.
2.06      For the Project, institutional capacity and capability would be
of great importance. Both the Forestry Commission, the principal
implementing agency, and AGRITEX have had limited experience in planning
and carrying out development projects in CAs (paras 1.21, 1.22 & 1.27).
They are both presently in the process of reorganization and reorientation
in order to serve better the Government's policy on rural development.
B. Project Objectives and General Description
2.07      The objectives of the proposed Project may be summed up as
follows:
(a) to understand and influence CA inhabitants' attitudes
towards and participation in tree planting, and to develop
peoples' awareness of the need for an afforestation program
in terms of objectives in (b) below;
(b) to start processes contributing to increases in exotic wood
supplies, conservation of indigenous wood resources, more
efficient use of wood as fuel and building material and,
generally, arresting the physical deterioration of the CAs;
and
(c) thus, to promote tree planting and management in selected
areas, as an integral part of on-farm and livestock raising
activities of the people.
2.08      The Project would be the first Bank Group financing in the
Zimbabwe forestry sub-sector, and is expected to form the pilot or start-up
phase of a broader, long-term rural afforestation program. Specifically,
the Project would assist in developing a suitable implementing
organization, collect additional socio-economic and technical information,
and test and develop appropriate approaches to rural afforestation. During
a four-year period, starting July 1982, the Project would:
(a) Assist in developing institutional capacity and capability
by providing for:



- 13 -
2.02      Estimates of existing supplies and of present consumption of wood
indicate many deficit districts (para 1.32). At the present consumption
rate i.e. 10 m3 p.a. per family, the demand for fuelwood and poles is
expected to double by year 2000 while the area under indigenous woodlands
which is the source of fuelwood and poles (and hence, the supply) is
expected to be reduced due to increasing demands of the increasing
population. Despite recognition of the problem little has been done to
ensure that future wood supplies will be available to meet the needs of the
growing population.  Steps will have to be taken to encourage the
widespread growing of trees on individual farms, in woodlots and of tree
plantations which are higher yielding than the indigenous woodlands, and
also to conserve the indigenous woodlands to supply the need for fuelwood
and poles. Obviously, tree planting would have to be done within the
constraints imposed by land use and tenure problems, so that selection of
priority or suitable areas for afforestation would require careful
consideration. However, it is extremely unlikely that tree planting by
itself could be expected to fill the total needs for fuelwood and poles of
the country. Alternative sources of energy and more efficient utilization
of energy for cooking, heating and alternative building material will have
to be explored to cater at least for part of the country's requirements.
2.03      At present, there is little hope that alternative sources of
energy will be made available at prices which the rural population in
general can afford to pay.  Rural electrification is unlikely to
materialize because of relatively high costs associated with its
establishement and use.  Imported fossil fuels are prohibitive and are a
drain on foreign exchange.  Coal, which is available within the country, is
unlikely because of its high cost to make a major contribution to the
energy needs in the rural areas.  Solar energy and biogas are still at an
experimental stage. It is clear that while various alternatives will have
to be explored, for the rural areas there is no viable alternative to
fuelwood at present other than burning of crop residues, which on small
farms is likely to have a negative effect on crop yields.
2.04      In the establishment and management of woodlots or plantations,
there are obviously several options which can be considered. Planting of
trees can be by individuals, village groups or committees, schools, women's
clubs, District Councils and other ad hoc or formal groups. Group planting
operations, largely untried so far, would involve developing arrangements
related to (a) ownership, control and management of woodlots; (b)
definition and rights of beneficiaries; (c) planting and management
practices; and (d) arrangements for harvesting and distribution or sale of
produce. A large number of combinations or options are possible in theory,
but it would be important to encourage project area inhabitants to take the
initiative in proposing their own solutions to the problems. The option
that an individual or group of individuals will successfully adopt is the
one best suited to function within the socio-economic situation prevailing
in that particular village or communal area. At this juncture, there is
insufficient knowledge, particularly of socio-economic variables, to plan a
large scale afforestation program with confidence and equally difficult to
predict farmers response to such a program. While indications are that CA
dwellers, particularly women, do perceive the shortage of fuelwood and pole
supply as a problem, it is not clear whether they possess the appropriate



- 14 -
resources of land, labor and capital and are willing and able to invest
them in the planting of trees. There is, therefore, a need to obtain
greater understanding of the situation prevailing in the Communal Areas and
to test various options and approaches to rural afforestation.
2.05      An essential feature of the Project would be the provision of
forestry advisory services or extension. Indeed, the success of the
Project may depend largely on the effectiveness of extension. The form of
extension services is determined by the need for an integrated approach to
the utilization and conservation of land, a limited resource. Thus,
forestry extension would be provided as an element of a comprehensive
extension package for cropping, livestock and conservation. This is the
key reason for the participation in the Project of AGRITEX, the agency
responsible for national extension services, which would work in close
collaboration with FC.
2.06      For the Project, institutional capacity and capability would be
of great importance. Both the Forestry Commission, the principal
implementing agency, and AGRITEX have had limited experience in planning
and carrying out development projects in CAs (paras 1.21, 1.22 & 1.27).
They are both presently in the process of reorganization and reorientation
in order to serve better the Governmaent's policy on rural development.
B. Project Objectives and General Description
2.07      The objectives of the proposed Project may be summed up as
follows:
(a) to understand and influence CA inhabitants' attitudes
towards and participation in tree planting, and to develop
peoples' awareness of the need for an afforestation program
in terms of objectives in (b) below;
(b) to start processes contributing to increases in exotic wood
supplies, conservation of indigenous wood resources, more
efficient use of wood as fuel and building material and,
generally, arresting the physical deterioration of the CAs;
and
(c) thus, to promote tree planting and management in selected
areas, as an integral part of on-farm and livestock raising
activities of the people.
2.08      The Project would be the first Bank Group financing in the
Zimbabwe forestry sub-sector, and is expected to form the pilot or start-up
phase of a broader, long-term rural afforestation program. Specifically,
the Project would assist in developing a suitable implementing
organization, collect additional socio-economic and technical information,
and test and develop appropriate approaches to rural afforestation. During
a four-year period, starting July 1982, the Project would:
(a) Assist in developing institutional capacity and capability
by providing for:



- 15 -
(i) training of staff and development of appropriate
forestry extension services;
(ii) establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit;
and
(iii) infrastructure, vehicles and equipment
(b) Provide for carrying out surveys/studies and research as
follows:
(i) an attitude and practice survey of farmers in
wood deficit areas;
(ii) a forest resource survey;
(iii) a review of forest policy in Communal Areas;
(iv) a wood energy utilization study;
(v) project preparation of the next phase of the
afforestation program; and
(vi) strengthening the silvicultural research program
and expanding seed orchards.
(c) Implement the following afforestation activities:
(i) establish up to 48 nurseries to provide seedlings;
(ii) set up a Support Fund to assist individuals or groups
who wish to establish nurseries or woodlots;
(iii) establish demonstration and trial plots;
(iv) establish up to 9 blocks of tree plantations
(total 1,400 ha) close to major concentrations of
population; and
(v) provide forestry extension, and undertake publicity
and tree planting campaigns.
2.09      The Project will cover up to 16 out of the 52 districts in the
country (see Table 1). Thirteen of these districts have been selected on
the basis of their being the most severe wood deficit.5/ This criterion
has been coupled with adequate coverage of the agro-ecological zones of the
country so as to provide opportunities to test and develop alternative
approaches to resolve the fuelwood and poles problem and to evaluate farmer
responses to the project under the range of conditions prevalent in the
districts and communal areas in the different zones. The remaining three
districts have been included because the Forestry Commission has already
established nurseries and some infrastructure in these districts.
5/   A severe wood deficit district is defined for purposes of this project
as a district with a wood deficit of over 6 m3 p. a. per family. This
criterion has been used to select the 13 districts out of the 27
deficit districts identified by the Whitsun Foundation (para 1.32).



- 16 -
C. Detailed Features
a. Institution Building
2.10      Training and extension.  Under the Project, training would aim to
develop the institutional capacity to reach farmers with a suitable
afforestation scheme. As the final link in the chain, extension activities
of AGRITEX in the CAs would be expanded to incorporate forestry as a part
of advisory services on land use and cultivation. This will include, inter
alia, the development of a curriculum on forestry extension for AGRITEX
courses, training of AGRITEX staff on technical aspects of afforestation,
as indicated below, and training of FC staff on extension. AGRITEX would
also develop an appropriate plan fcr providing forestry extension within
its evolving extension services for CA inhabitants, to address Project
objectives. AGRITEX expects to be able to carry out forestry extension
with its existing manpower and budget (including possible funding under the
proposed national agricultural extension and research project, para 1.28),
so that no Project funds are being provided for extension per se in this
Project.
2.11      The following training programs would be carried out: (i) formal
professional training of FC and AGRITEX staff; (ii) short-term, local
courses to strengthen staff skills in management, evaluation and other
areas; (iii) local seminars on communal land conditions and rural
afforestation; (iv) study tours to rural afforestation projects in other
countries; and (v) training of nurserymen.
(i)    Formal training of staff.  The ongoing training courses at
the expanded FC College of Forestry, at its new location at
Aloe Park, are expected to be adequate to meet the numbers
of various categories of forestry staff required for the
project. They include the two-year forestry diploma course
for Provincial Woodlot and Nursery Managers and the one-year
certificate course for District Woodlot and Nursery Managers
and rangers for block plantations. In regard to senior
staff, the FC has five persons taking degree courses in
forestry at universities abroad, one or two of whom would be
attached to the project on their return to Zimbabwe. As the
necessary expansion of the College of Forestry has been
adequately funded under the UNDP Project, no Project funding
is provided. However, the course contents, now heavily
oriented to plantation management and commercial forestry,
would have to be revised to reflect concerns with social
forestry and communal lands.
Senior Provincial FC staff would be trained in
extension and training methods to enable them to effectively
communicate forestry technology to extension field staff.
These courses would be arranged by AGRITEX as part of its
regular training program and funded by its budget.
Course material on rural afforestation and forestry
extension would be added to the training curriculum for



- 17 -
AGRITEX extension supervisors and assistants, which is being
revised and prepared as part of the national agricultural
extension and research project (para 1.28).  In addition, a
two-week special forestry course and periodic field
demonstration at FC nurseries would be given to all existing
extension staff. The Training Branch of AGRITEX would
provide the necessary facilities and materials from its own
budget.
As part of the proposed national agricultural extension
and research project, AGRITEX is expected to have a revised
training program (including the forestry component)
available shortly. The FC would assist AGRITEX in preparing
the forestry component in this program.
(ii)  Short-term training.  Courses on aspects of management,
social survey methods, project evaluation and other subjects
directly relevant to implementation of this Project would
also be arranged for selected FC staff at facilities suited
for such courses available in the country. Provision has
been made up to Z$10,500 towards expenses of these seminars
and courses.
(iii) Local seminars. There is need to increase the awareness and
knowledge of the FC staff at all levels of social forestry
concepts and socio-economic conditions of communal area
inhabitants. The FC would plan a series of seminars at
regular intervals, starting with one for its senior
officers, for approximately two weeks. Selected AGRITEX
staff as well as groups involved in planting would also
participate. Training staff would be located from resources
available in Zimbabwe, including universities, consulting
firms and individual specialists. An amount of Z$31,500 has
been provided for such seminars.
(iv) Study tours. Visits by key FC and AGRITEX staff to
comparable forestry projects in other countries with
experience in this field (e.g., Malawi, Philippines, India)
would be important to broaden the perspective of staff
beyond Zimbabwe and commercial forestry, and acquaint them
with actual implementation of such projects with a large
"social" content.  The FC would prepare a preliminary
program for IDA's consideration prior to specific funding.
An amount of Z$51,700 has been allocated for this purpose.
(v) Training of nurserymen. The FC nurserymen and persons
starting nursery projects who qualify for assistance from
the Project's Support Fund (para 2.22) would receive initial
training for two weeks at the College of Forestry on nursery
management followed by periodic short, practical
instruction at FC nurseries. This activity will be financed
under the Project.



- 18 -
2.12      Monitoring and evaluation.  The Project would set up a monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system to assist management in assessing progress of
the Project as well as responses of the target population. In this pilot
Project, M&E is intended to contribute to effective decisions on the
design of a suitable, broader rural afforestation program for Zimbabwe.
The M&E system will cover progress reporting, periodic reviews (including
those with IDA), and compilation of a Project Completion Report, and
contribute to the preparation of the next rural afforestation project. The
Project would meet the costs of all staff for this component including that
of the Head of Monitoring and Evaluation. Three months of consultant time
has also been provided in years 3 & 4 for backstopping the evaluation
efforts. The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of the Head of Monitoring and Evaluation and the consultants
would be agreed with IDA. The Head of Monitoring and Evaluation would be
appointed and the M&E Unit established, as early as possible, and no later
than September 30, 1983.
2.13      The Project would also fund the purchase of a 4-wheel drive
vehicle, 2 motorcycles, office equipment and furniture and the relevant
operating and maintenance costs.
2.14      Staffing and infrastructure.  The Headquarters of the Rural
Afforestation Division will be situated in Harare at the Forestry
Commission Research Centre. Staff at Headquarters will include a
Divisional Manager, a Deputy Divisional Manager, an Accountant, and
supporting clerical and other office staff. Each Provincial office would be
headed by a Provincial Woodlot Manager. Each of 16 District Offices will
be staffed by a District Woodlot Manager and a Junior Clerk. The
Headquarters will be provided with a station wagon and a 1 ton pick-up, the
Provincial Offices with a 1 ton pick-up each and the District Woodlot
Managers with motorcycles. The Project would meet all of the above
staffing costs, vehicle purchase costs, furniture and equipment costs for
all offices, and also the operating and maintenance costs for vehicles,
equipment and offices.
2.15      The related civil works for the Project consist of a Headquarters
office block and a store, Provincial offices in Harare (Mashonaland East),
Gweru (Midlands), Mutare (Manicaland), Masvingo (Nyanda) and Bindura
Mashonaland Central), housing for District Woodlot Managers and District
Clerks and an office/store for each district. The Project would provide
for the construction and maintenance of the above civil works.
b. Studies and Research
2.16      Studies.  The various studies to be undertaken under this Project
are as follows:
(i) Attitude and practice studies/surveys of project target
population. Under the project there will be a Baseline
Knowledge-Attitude-Practice (Baseline) Survey in selected
Project areas, aimed at assessing the current situation in
the CAs with regard to the use and demand for wood, tree
planting patterns and attitudes and constraints towards tree
planting. The Survey will be followed up by other surveys



- 19 -
as necessary, including a broader socio-economic survey if
practicable and justified by the results of this Survey.
The Forest Resource Survey and Baseline Survey are expected
to generate minimum levels of information on the existing
situation and attitudes in the communal areas, which should
assist Project management to better define a s t of basic
indicators of CA population responses to the Project.
Against these basic indicators, future changes would be
measured. The Baseline Survey would be carried out over a
period of about four months, using methodology to be agreed,
with emphasis on simplicity and timeliness (results within
nine months of start of survey). The Survey would be
started in early 1983, following consultation on a work
program and terms of reference for the consultants between
the Government, IDA and the FC. The consultants would be
engaged under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, for an
estimated total of 132 person-months of services at various
levels (of which is estimated 12 person-months would be
supervisory). An amount of Z$194,000 has been provided
under the Project. The results of the Survey would be
conveyed to IDA no later than October 31, 1983.
(ii)  Forest resource survey. Successful implementation of a rural
afforestation program would help conserve the indigenous
forest resources by providing alternative wood resources and
help improve the physical environment in communal lands.
In order to quantify available timber from the existing
indigenous forest areas and to measure its depletion, the
Forestry Commission would carry out a survey which would
serve as a baseline for monitoring future trends in forest
utilisation and environmental damage in the CAs and the
impact of the rural afforestation program on them.
The survey will use the general land use information
available from an ongoing national ortho-photomapping
program and the Landsat imagery mapping exercise currently
under preparation for a broad assessment of existing forests
in communal lands, supplemented by FC measurements in the
field.
The Project would provide Z$176,900 for the purchase of
the necessary equipment, including a zoom stereoscope,
Landsat tapes/materials and a vehicle. The survey would be
carried out over a three-year period, with an incremental
professional staff of two persons at the FC.
(iii)   Review of forest policy in communal areas. Currently wood is
considered a free commodity in communal lands and no
stumpage fee is levied on trees cut in the indigenous
woodland. The Government, however, recognizes the need to
manage these forests for timber production and for
environmental protection purposes. Thus, in 1980 the first
Forest Reserve of about 63,000 ha was established in



- 20 -
communal lands. This is less than one percent of the total
forest area in communal lands. Based on the results of the
survey of forest resources in communal lands, the Government
will review forest policy in these areas. A study to be
carried out under the Project would focus on legislation for
management of the natural forests to utilize them as a
sustained source of timber and environmental protection. As
fuelwood becomes increasingly scarce, its value would be
expected to rise substantially. Forestry Commission
plantations would be only marginal producers, given their
high production costs as a result of the heavy
infrastructure development and high overheads necessary for
plantation establishment and maintenance. Financial
viability of the block plantations will depend to a
significant extent on adoption of a pricing system for poles
and fuelwood based on the principle of cost recovery. The
forestry policy study will review this question and will
include recommendations for regulations for protection of
forests and levies (stumpage) for utilizing the forest
resource. The study will be carried out by the FC
(supplemented by 4 man-months of consultancy) in
consultation with specialist bodies as necessary.
(iv)   Wood energy utilisation study.  Growing of trees for
fuelwood is by itself an inadequate effort to resolve the
problem of fuelwood shortage. Complementary efforts to
encourage the development and adoption of more efficient
utilization of energy for cooking are also necessary. The
present widely used 3-stone cooking oven is considered
inefficient since a considerable amount of energy is lost.
Any conservation of such energy would have a favorable
impact on the total requirement for fuelwood. The Ministry
of Industry and Energy Development (MIED), which was
established in 1981 and has overall responsibility for the
energy sector, has initiated some work on improved stove
testing, but a strengthening of this small program is
essential. The ongoing program needs to be critically
reviewed and an appropriate program formulated taking into
consideration information and experience of other countries
in this field, particularly African countries. Therefore,
provision has been made for (a) obtaining the services of a
consultant to review the ongoing wood energy program in MIED
and formulate a program for implementation, and (b)
implementing a work program as agreed to by GOZ/MIED and
IDA. It was agreed at negotiations that MIED would employ a
consultant, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and
that the report would be submitted to IDA by September 30,
1983.
(v) Preparation of a next phase of the rural afforestation
program.  This effort will depend heavily on the results of
the Project and thus on effective monitoring and
evaluation. Therefore, most of the preparation work will be



- 21 -
handled by the FC and other agencies involved in the
Project, supplemented by outside consultants. Four
person-months of consultant time amounting to Z$39,000 has
been provided.
2.17     PF-search.  The FC is focusing its research activities on the
production of fuelwood and construction wood for domestic purposes in
communal lands which are predominantly located in semi-arid areas. In
order to provide the logistic base for these efforts, the FC has already
started to up-grade the temporary research station at Chesa (para 1.24).
The Project would carry out:
(a) species trials with suitable provenances of eucalyptus
grandis, E. tereticornis and E. camadulensis;
(b) trials 6/ with species other than eucalypt for low rainfall
areas such as - Acacia indica, Cassia siamea, Casuarina
spp, leucena leucocephala, Malea azederach, and Prosopis
spp;
(c) expansion of seed orchards to secure seed production of the
major eucalypt species and provenances to be used for the
block plantations and the woodlot program;
(d) trials on repellents to protect young trees from cattle and
goats (repellants are successfully used in the northern
hemisphere against wild game and have saved substantial
costs for fencing);
(e) trials on different land clearing methods for establishment
of fuelwood plantations (costs of traditional land clearing
practices could be as high as 50% of total plantation cost
when destumping is included); and
(f) investigations on the 'disease' affecting Mukwa trees
(Pterocarpus angolensis) which are the most important
commercial timber in the natural forests.
2.18      The Project would provide for one research officer, two rangers,
one agricultural demonstrator, one research assistant, 35 permanent
laborers and about 12 person years of casual labor, staff housing, offices
and stores at Chesa, nursery installations, establishment of trial plots,
expansion of seed orchards and equipment and vehicles. In addition, 4
person-months of consultancy services for the Mukwa disease investigations
are also being provided.
c. Afforestation
2.19      Nurseries.  The Project would make provision for the
establishment of up to 48 nurseries by the FC in 16 districts to ensure
6/   These trials would also be established near nurseries in the
districts.



- 22 -
availability of seedlingsfor sale 7/ and to serve as a focal point to
generate interest amongst the CA inhabitants (Table 1). The establishment
of nurseries would be phased over a three year period, and nursery numbers
and locations can be varied following periodic review of progress in sales
of seedlings and response of people in the CAs. Flexibility will also be
achieved by suitable variations in the numbers of seedlings produced at
each nursery, which are planned to have capacities in the first three years
of 30,000, 60,000 and 100,000 seedlings (full capacity) respectively.
Seedlings would be of eucalypts of three well tested sub-species: E.
grandis, E. tereticornis and E. camandulensis.
2.20      The nurseries would be located, preferably, near Rural Service
Centers and Growth Points. Each nursery is expected to serve an area
within a 10 to 13 km radius. To cover areas beyond these, seedling
distribution points will be set up at selected locations, up to two points
per nursery, according to demand. Each nursery would be managed by a
Project-funded nurseryman selected preferably from the local community and
given appropriate training (para 2.11). He would be assisted by a full
time labourer and casual labour as needed. The nurserymen will be provided
with bicycles for travel. Each nursery will be fenced and provided with
water supply, a small office, a store and a house for the nurseryman. The
distribution points will each be provided with a hut, fencing and water
supply.
2.21      The strategies to be adopted for afforestation would place major
emphasis on tree planting by individuals and groups to supply their needs
of fuelwood and poles. However, wlhile there are strong indications that CA
dwellers perceive wood shortage as a serious problem, the extent of their
response to tree planting as a means to resolve this problem is yet to be
ascertained. The exact location of the woodlots would obviously vary
according to the size of farmers' holdings and land availability; but
obvious sites would include land unsuitable for crops, road sides and
boundary lines.  In addition to individuals or extended families, village
groups, schools, farmers'/womens' clubs, District Councils or other such
groups or organizations would be encouraged and assisted to participate in
the Project.  In view of the uncertainty of response and the type of
arrangements best suited for a group or individual, a flexible approach
would be adopted in the implementation of the Project. Forestry extension
services would be provided by AGRITEX extension staff, but there would be
close coordination and cooperation between FC and AGRITEX staff (para
4.10).
2.22      Support fund.  As an incentive, the Project would provide
assistance in kind to groups who wish to establish woodlots of at least one
ha in area. The Project would also provide assistance in kind to
7/   The seedlings will be sold at the current price, which is 4 cents.
From the fourth year of the Project, estimated revenues from the sale
of seedlings would cover approximately two-thirds of the operating
costs of the nurseries.



- 23 -
individuals or groups wishing to establish nurseries in areas not covered
by a FC nursery.8!/ A Support Fund amounting to Z$169,000 would be
provided to obtain material for the incentive program, and would be
administered by the FC. Project staff at the District level would process
and approve requests for 'support', based on availability of land,
suitability of site, etc., and provide necessary advice and F pervision.
2.23      Demonstration and trial plots.  Adjacent to all nurseries the FC
would establish plots, not exceeding 5 ha each in size, to demonstrate
proper planting, maintenance and harvesting techniques for eucalypts and
other species. In about half of them and on a maximum of one ha of land,
trials would be carried out with new tree species (para 2.17). Since the
demonstration and trial plots would be set up over four years, and cover a
wide range of agro-ecological conditions, they would serve to provide
invaluable information on eucalyptus as well as new species. The
nurserymen would also manage these plots, although the species trials would
be planned and supervised by the Research Division.  The FC has already
initiated action to acquire the land for the demonstration and trial
plots. The Project would provide for fencing and other materials, equipment
and labor costs.
2.24      Block plantations.  The FC would establish block plantations to
provide fuelwood and poles in or near Communal Areas where individual
farmers, communities or local authorities would have difficulty in
establishing their own plantations because of poor soils and adverse
climate. Block plantations would be set up also in urban areas where there
is a high demand for wood as fuel and where presently indigenous wood
supplies come from increasingly distant sources. The FC would establish,
under the Project, nine block plantations, four in or near Communal Areas
(Rural Plantations) and five near major urban areas (Urban Plantations)
totaling 1,400 ha (Table 3).
2.25      The four Rural Plantations will be on demarcated forest lands
which are already under the FC's control. The plantations would be managed
to produce wood for construction and fuel, initially in the ratio of 70:30,
respectively, but subject to possible change later as determined by demand
studies for each plantation area during the pilot phase.
2.26      The Project would establish approximately 100 ha of Urban
Plantations for supply of fuelwood, over a four-year period near each of
the five cities indicated in Table 3. Land would be obtained by various
means, including possible official designation of land as "forest land"
under the Forest Act, leases from local bodies or other contractual
arrangements. Assurances were obtained from Government that the
arrangements for land for the Urban Plantations would be finalized before
December 31, 1983. Progress in land acquisition will be monitored
regularly.
2.27      Each of the 9 plantation blocks will be managed by a Ranger
supported by a Foreman and the required permanent and casual labour.
Each block will have its own nursery facilities. The Project will
8/   Fencing materials, tools and chemicals, for woodlots; fencing
materials, chemicals, tools, seed and polybags for nurseries.



- 24 -
specifically fund the salaries and wages of such staff for each block
plantation including nursery. The Project would also provide housing for
Rangers (9), and for permanent labor in the rural plantations on the basis
of 5 single status laborers per house.  Capital costs of nurseries would be
funded, with the exception of those at Harare and Gweru, where facilities
exist. The Rangers in charge of the Rural Plantations will be provided
pickups and tractors and trailers (2) except for Fuller and Chesa, where
they are already in place. Rangers in charge of Urban Plantations will be
given motorcycles.  The Project would fund all associated operating and
maintenance costs of vehicles, offices and buildings along with the
miscellaneous capital needs of the nurseries.
2.28      Publicity, campaigns and extension.  In conjunction with the FC,
AGRITEX would develop appropriate procedures and forestry extension
messages , to achieve Project objectives. Initial messages would be
refined or amended with experience, and farmer responses monitored. Aside
from propagating basic Project objectives (para 2.07), extension subjects
would include species and site selection, planting schedules and
techniques, woodlot management in relation to other on-farm activities,
principles of sustained yield and coppice management and protection from
cattle and fire. The costs of these activities would be met from AGRITEX's
regular budget.
2.29      There is also the need for a wider effort to disseminate
knowledge of the Project among the population of communal areas and urban
fuelwood users, to increase general awareness of the national energy
situation, the importance of forests, and the role of the people themselves
in conservation and afforestation. The FC has started a small program
which needs to be expanded and related to this Project. Accordingly, the
FC would prepare and implement a comprehensive program of publicity and
campaigns . Constituent elements of the program are foreseen as follows.
Target groups would need to be differentiated according to approach
necessary: e.g., farmers with smal:L or large holdings, persons in very high
deficit areas, various types of groups, urban dwellers and schools.
Seminars would be organized for farmer groups and local organizations,
including District Councils. Media expected to be used include films,
video, radio and printed material. The FC's association with the National
Tree Day, which has generated national interest and strong political
support, would be continued. The Project would provide for the services of
a Forestry Training Specialist, a vehicle, audio-visual equipment and other
office equipment and the related operating and maintenance costs.
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$10.6 million
(Z$9.7 million equivalent), of which US$2.3 million (22%) represents the
foreign exchange cost. The Project would, in base cost terms, provide
US$0.2 million for 32' staff years of internationally recruited staff at a



- 25 -
cost of US$57,000 per staff year and US$0.2 million for 23 staff months of
short term consultancies at an average cost of US$10,600 per staff month
(including salaries/fee)subsistence and travel). The phasing of Project
costs is given in the attached Table 4. The following is a summary of
Project costs:
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(Zs '000)                  (US$ '000)            Z of
--------------------- ------------------------ Foreign  Z of Total
Local  Foreign Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Exchanse Bsse Costs
A. INSTITUTION BUILDING
TRAINING                                     129.6    51.7   181.3   140.8    56.2    197.1            28.5          2,4
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                    331.2   137.4   468.6   360.0   149.3    509.3            29.3          6.2
PROJ. STAFFING AND INFRASTRUCTURE          2,186.0   404.3 2,590.3 2,376.1   439.5  2,815.5            15.6         34,0
Sub-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING                2,646.7   593.4 3,240.1 2,876.8   645.0  3,521.9             18.3        42.6
B. STUDIES AND RESEARCH
STUDIES                                      126.0   362.0   488.0   137.0   393.5    530.5            74.2          6.4
FORESTRY RESEARCH                            488.9   359.3   848.2   531.4   390.5    921.9            42.4         11.1
Sub-Total STUDIES AND RESEARCH                  614.9   721.3 1,336.2   668.4   784.0  1,452.4             54.0        17.6
C. AFFORESTATION
NURSERIES                                  1,183.9   205.0 1,388.8 1,286.8   222.8  1,509.6            14.8         18.2
SUPPORT FUND                                 169.0         -   169.0   183.8          -    183.8           -         2.2
TRIAL AND DEMONSTRATION PLOTS                150.5      7,3   157.8   163.6         7.9     171.5       4.6          2.1
BLOCK PLANTATIONS                            955.3   221.8 1,177,1 1,038.4   241.0  1,279.5            18.8         15.5
PUBLICITY AND CAMPAIGN                       108.4    36.1   144.5   117.8    39.3    157.0            25.0          1.9
Sub-Total AFFORESTATION                       2,567.1   470.1 3,037.2 2,790.4   511.0  3,301.3            15.5         39.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                           5J828.7 1,784.8 7,613.6 6,335.6 1,940.0  8,275.6              23.4       100.0
Physical Contingencies                         234.7   136.4   371.1   255.2   148.2    403.4            36.7          4.9
Price Contingencies                          1t535.7   216.7 1,752.4 1,669.3   235.5  1,904.8            12.4         23.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                             7,599.2 2,137.9 9,737.1 8,260.0 2,323.8 10,583.8             22.0       127.9



-- 26 -
3.02      The Project cost estimates are based on January 1983 prices, and
are net of taxes and duties.  Included in the total costs are research
items with a base cost of about US$0.2 million that have been identified by
the Australian Government for funding under its Development Aid Program.
(para 1.25). Project funding would be reallocated to other items if the
Australian Government approves their financing. Physical contingencies have
been included at a rate of 10% on all costs except salaries, consultancies
and support payments. Price contingencies on imported costs of vehicles,
material, equipment and internationally-recruited staff and consultants
have been included at annual rates of 8% in 1982/83, 7.5% in 1983/84, 7% in
1984/85 and 6% in 1985/86. In the case of civil works, a local price
contingency of 20% in 1982/83 and 15% per year thereafter has been used.
These rates are close to rates of increases in overall construction costs
in 1981/82, prior to which those rates had been even higher. Price
increases in the construction sector are expected to be higher than those
for the general level of prices during the Project period, due to
continuing work pressures on the relatively small construction industry.
For all other local costs, price contingencies have been included at the
rates of 15% in 1982/83 and 83/84, 12% in 1984/85, and 9% per year
thereafter. The total price contingencies amount to about 23% of the
Project's base cost.
B. Financing Plan
3.03      The financing of Project costs, net of direct taxes and duties,
would be as follows:
US$(million)        Percent
IDA                  7.3                69
Government           3.3                31
10.6              100
3.04      The proposed IDA Credit of US$7.3 million would be made available
to the Government on standard terms. In the light of the country's present
severe foreign exchange situation, the post war lack of domestic savings
and the consequent budgetary difficulties experienced by the Government,
the IDA credit would finance the total foreign exchange cost of US$2.3
million and about 60% of local costs, amounting to US$5.0 million. The
credit funds would be channelled by the Government to the Forestry
Commission.  The Government has confirmed that an amount of Z$0.8 million
(US$0.9 million) has been included in the 1982/83 budget to ensure an early
start for the Project. This amount: is to be spent in anticipation of
retroactive financing on items of Project expenditure incurred from
July 1, 1982. Retroactive financing is appropriate owing to the heavy
foreign exchange expenditures needed at the initial stage of the Project.
Such financing is recommended, up to a maximum amount of US$1.0 million.
C. Procurement
3.05      Contracts for the procurement of vehicles financed under the
Project (US$0.4 million) would be aggregated where possible into orders of
US$100,000 and above, to be procured through ICB from suppliers who
maintain or agree to maintain in Zimbabwe an adequate after-sales service
and an inventory of spare parts.  Orders for vehicles less than US$100,000
and those for furniture and equipment (US$0.4 million) would be procured



- 27 -
through local competitive bidding, in accordance with the FC's procurement
practices, which were discussed during appraisal and found to be
satisfactory. Because of their scattered location and individual small
size, contracts for offices, houses and other minor items of civil works
(US$2.1 million) may not be attractive to international contractors, and
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertir d locally in
which international firms represented in Zimbabwe could also participate.
Services of expatriate staff and consultants (US$0.7 million) would be
obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the above mentioned procedures would be
followed.
D. Disbursements
3.06      Disbursements under the IDA credit would be made on the following
basis:
(a) 80% of the cost of civil works (US$1.6 million).
(b) 100% of the cost of vehicles and equipment (US$0.8 million).
(c) 100% of expatriate staff salaries, consultant fees and cost
of studies (US$0.9 million).
(d) 100% of training costs (US$0.2 million).
(e) 65% of local salaries and allowances (US$2.6 million).
(f) 70% of the cost of equipment and vehicle operation and
maintenance (US$0.7 million).
(g) an unallocated amount of US$0.5 million, representing a
portion of the contingencies of the above categories and
transferable to them as required.
3.07      Disbursements under (a), (b) and (c) would be fully documented.
Disbursements under all other categories would be made against statements
of expenditure certified by the Director of the Forestry Commission. All
supporting documents relating to disbursements under (d), (e) and (f) would
be retained in the FC for audit purposes and for inspection by IDA
supervision missions. At Project completion any funds remaining in the
Credit would be cancelled unless otherwise agreed to by IDA. A schedule
showing the estimated pattern of disbursements under the Project is given
in Table 5, and the expected implementation schedule in Table 6.
E. Accounts, Audit and Reporting
3.08      The Finance Division of the FC is headed by a fully qualified and
experienced Finance Manager, to whom the Project Accountant will be
functionally responsible. The system of accounts in place in the FC is
adequate to ensure accountability of funds. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that from the commencement of Project operations
separate accounts relating to expenditures under the Project would be kept
by the FC, that these accounts will be audited by independent auditors



- 28 -
acceptable to IDA and they would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of each financial year.  The auditors would specifically review and
comment on the procedures used for control of disbursements against
statements of expenditures. Assurances were also obtained during
negotiations that a system of cost accounting will be set up for the
Project, so as to generate information inter alia on unit costs of
establishment of plantations and production of seedlings; and that summary
accounts indicating expenditures made under the various Project
disbursement categories will be submitted to IDA quarterly.
3.09      The FC would also prepare six-monthly progress reports on an
agreed format and forward these to IDA. Reports on the periodic Project
reviews to be undertaken by FC (para 2.12) would also be forwarded to IDA.
Promptly after the Project's completion and in any case no later than six
months after the Credit closing date, the FC would prepare a Completion
Report on the execution, achievements and problems associated with the
Project. Assurances on these reporting requirements were obtained during
negotiations.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Overall Coordination and Design
4.01      The Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism would have overall
responsibility for the Project, and the FC would be the implementing
agency. It would be assisted by MOA's AGRITEX, which will provide the
extension services for the Project. Given the linkages between the CAs and
forestry to other sectors or activities, the following Ministries would
also be involved in the Project.
(a) Ministry of Industry and Energy Development, which frames
energy policies and is engaged in energy research.
(b) Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development;
(c)  Ministry of Local Government and Town Planning, whose
participation is necessary in order that local
organizations, especially District Councils, are fully
involved in implementing the Project. This Ministry could
also facilitate land allocation or acquisition for nurseries
and woodlots;
(d) Ministry of Lands, Ressettlement and Rural Development, which
is concerned with land tenure issues;
(e)  Ministry of Education, which would be concerned with the
participation of schools in the Project; and
(f) Ministry of Youth, Sport and Recreation, for participation
of Young Farmers' Groups and similar organizations.
4.02      A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) has been established by
Government, on which are represented the above eight Ministries and the



- 29 -
FC. It is chaired by a senior official of the Ministry of Natural
Resources and Tourism. The FC provides the secretariat. The purpose of
PCC is to ensure cooperation and coordination at the national level, to
enable proper planning, implementation and monitoring of the Project. Some
of the areas in which PCC is expected to play an important role include
generating and maintaining political support for the Project, overseeing
promotional and educational efforts directed at the inhabitants of CAs, and
facilitating availability of land and related infrastructure. The PCC's
role would be advisory and not executive, although it could ask for
proposals or reports on any matter involving the Project and inter-agency
coordination, including regular operational reporting. One of the
important tasks of the PCC would be to monitor the results of the
arrangements for cooperation in the field (para 4.11).
4.03      A feature of the Project organization is the participation of
AGRITEX. This is considered the optimum arrangement in order to utilize
the expertise and field organization of AGRITEX in providing agricultural
extension services. The alternative would have been to set up a parallel
extension service in the FC, which would have been costly and time
consuming, and delayed execution of the Project. The other and main reason
for this arrangement is the need to integrate tree growing with
agricultural cultivation practices (paras 2.05 and 2.07). The knowledge
and expertise of the FC would be likewise utilized, so that FC staff would
serve as subject matter specialists on technical forestry subjects, to
assist AGRITEX field staff in extension. AGRITEX and the FC have agreed to
this division of responsibilities.
B. The Forestry Commission
4.04      The FC has established a Rural Afforestation Division, which
would be responsible for the execution of the Project. A number of other
units of the FC would also participate in the Project and, in the process,
will have to expand their organizational work programs. In addition, a new
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be established.
4.05      The annexed Chart  shows the Project organization in relation to
the FC and AGRITEX. In the FC, the Operations Manager (one of the two
senior officers reporting to the Director) would have overall
responsibility for the Project. He would also have prime responsibility
for coordination with other agencies, a task in which he may be assisted by
a Projects Coordinator, a newly established position. Units to be involved
in project implementation are described below.
Rural Afforestation Division
4.06      The Rural Afforestation Division, reporting to the Operations
Manager, would carry out day-to-day implementation of the Project. It is
headed by a Manager, already appointed, who would be assisted by a Deputy
Manager, who is yet to be appointed.  In the field the Division will have a
Provincial Woodlot and Nursery Manager in each province, and a District
Woodlot and Nursery Manager in each district. In addition to establishing
and managing nurseries and woodlots, the functions of the field staff would
include demonstrations and seedling sales promotion (in conjunction with
AGRITEX), assisting in preparation of a forestry extension message and



- 30 -
program and with technical training of extension staff, designing
approaches to group planting, operating the project Support Fund and
assisting in socio-economic surveys. Accounting staff would be assigned to
the Rural Afforestation Division at all levels.
4.07      The Rural Afforestation Division would also be responsible for
planning and overseeing the operations of the four Project block Rural
Plantations in the CAs (para 2.25), each of which would be under the charge
of a Plantation Manager, and the Urban Plantations. The form of management
of the latter would be developed in cooperation with the relevant urban
authority.
Other Organizational Units
4.08      The organizations for monitoring and evaluation, training and
promotion, are discussed below (paras 4.12 to 4.15). The Accounting Unit
for the Project is headed by a Project Accountant, who is functionally
responsible to the Manager, Finance Division. The Manager, Central
Services Division, is responsible for units which will provide personnel
and data processing services for the Project. This Division would also
carry out the forest resource survey (para 2.16 (ii)) through a new unit to
be established for this purpose. An experienced professional in the field
of remote sensing interpretation would be recruited to head this new uni.t.
Project Staffing
4.09      Major staffing required specifically for the Project would be in
the new Rural Afforestation Division and the Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit. A few additional professional staff will be needed in the areas of
research, training, resource survey and accounts, together with some
incremental support staff. The Pro:ject would thus be implemented by the
combined efforts of the additional staff and many of the FC's current
managers and professional staff. The incremental professional staff
requirements will include the following: Divisional Manager and Deputy
Divisional Manager, Accountant, 5 Provincial and 16 District Woodlot and
Nursery Managers, 11 Forest Rangers and a complement of foremen and
nurserymen; Head of Monitoring and Evaluation; Education and Extension
Officer; Remote Sensing Interpretor and assistant; and Research Officer and
Demonstrator.
C. AGRITEX and Forestry Extension
4.10      AGRITEX, which is responsible for all agricultural extension in
CAs, would also be responsible for forestry extension under the Project.
It will incorporate advice and assistance on tree planting into its normal
extension service so that an integrated farming systems approach is
developed. Thus, an Agricultural Extension Officer in each of the 16
Project districts, with a complement of extension supervisors and
assistants, would provide forestry extension services as part of the
overall agricultural extension program. However, the arrangement for
technical support will be different from the usual practice of having "in
house" subject matter specialists (para 4.03). For the Project, FC staff
and in particular the Provincial and District Woodlot and Nursery Managers
would constitute the subject matter specialists on forestry, providing



- 31 -
technical training, guidance and support to AGRITEX field services. The
Forester at AGRITEX head office (para 1.27) will have an important
coordinating role. While direct contact with Project area inhabitants
would be made by AGRITEX extension staff, the FC technical staff would
participate in field days and demonstrations. FC staff would also handle
enquiries made on site at its nurseries or woodlots. AGRITEV and the FC
have a joint protocol reflecting the above framework for extension.
4.11      AGRITEX's responsibilities would include designing forestry
extension "messages", implementing an agreed program (including schedules
of visits, demonstrations and training), monitoring responses and physical
progress of planting, and evaluating the impact and effectiveness of
extension. It would need to cooperate with the FC on these matters, as
well as on training and promotion. The FC and AGRITEX would establish a
small Project Working Party at headquarters for continuous coordination on
the above matters, and a field coordination group in each district
consisting of the FC District Woodlot and Nursery Manager and the District
Agricultural Extension Officer, which could co-opt representatives of other
organizations on an ad hoc basis, according to need. The Project Working
Party's terms of reference would cover planning and monitoring and
evaluation and an advisory role on policy matters. Apart from coordination
on matters of mutual interest, each field coordination group would also
investigate land availability for afforestation in the district.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.12      A new Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit for the Project would
be established in the FC directly under the Operations Manager (Chart).It
will be responsible for the M&E program and system for the Project (para
2.12) except for the extension component, which will be the responsibility
of AGRITEX. It will manage the Baseline and other surveys of the Project
target population. This Unit would have a small number of staff at HQ,
with the bulk of the field work carried out either through the normal
functioning of FC and AGRITEX field staff or,as for the attitude-practice
surveys, by contractual arrangements. The M&E Unit would be headed by a
Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, who should have experience of
administering socio-economic studies and preferably a background in
forestry, economics or sociology. He would be supported by two experienced
research assistants. Other departments of the FC will provide, through
their normal operations, monitoring data, which will be collected and
analyzed by the Unit for reporting for the Project.
4.13      The M&E Unit would develop the necessary information system to
service the needs of Project management, and provide the basis for periodic
progress reporting to, and reviews with, higher authorities. Accordingly,
it will compile and disseminate (with the assistance of the Central
Services Division) information obtained regularly from other sources, in
particular the Rural Afforestation, Finance, Research, Training and
Publicity and Central Services Divisions of the FC, AGRITEX, the Project
Coordination Committee, the proposed FC-AGRITEX Working Party and the
district field coordinating groups.



- 32 -
E. Training and Promotion
4.14      Training activities under the project would be the responsibility
of the Training and Publicity Division of the FC and the specialist
Training Branch of AGRITEX who, acting through the Project joint Working
Party (para 4.11) , will draw up an overall training program and schedule.
(i)  The Training and Publicity Division of FC.  Formal training
in forestry would be carried out by the expanded College of
Forestry at Aloe Park, and pre-training of foresters and
rangers at the facilities in Lion Hills and Stapleford,
respectively. A Forestry Education and Extension Officer
would be appointed for the project in the Training and
Publicity Division, who will (a) coordinate internal
technical courses for FC nursery staff and private nursery
men; (b) arrange for FC field staff to provide practical
courses in forestry to AGRITEX staff; (c) make arrangements
for local seminars; and (d) assist in the planning of study
tours by FC and AGRITEX staff.
(ii)  The Training Branch of AGRITEX.   This unit would prepare
material on rural afforestation for use in the regular
training of extension staff at Dombashawa. Other
responsibilities of the Training Branch, using its regular
staff, would be: (a) training FC field staff, especially
District Woodlot and Nursery Managers, in extension methods
and training; (b) arranging for short term forestry courses
and field demonstrations for extension staff; and (c)
providing training nanuals for use by the FC. The Forestry
Specialist in the Crop Production Branch will assist in
these activities.
4.15      Normal extension activities will provide the thrust of promoting
tree planting among CA inhabitants. Promotional materials incorporating
forestry will be prepared by the Training Branch in consultation with the
FC and AGRITEX's Assistant Director for Field Services. Major promotional
efforts for the Project with groups, including seminars for District
Councils and schools, would be organized by the FC's Training and Publicity
Division in conjunction with AGRITEX.
V. PRODUCTION AND YIELDS
Woodlots
5.01      The Project would build up a nursery capacity for producing up to
4.8 million seedlings annually under the woodlot program. The contribution
of nurseries and seedling production in the 48 nurseries would be phased,
taking into account experience gained and the information gathered from the
attitude-practice survey (para 2.16). Each nursery would start with a
production of about 30,000 seedlings in the first year, 60,000 in the
second and 100,000 in the third year. Potential seedling production during
the Project period would be 8.3 million seedlings which would enable
planting the equivalent of about 3,680 ha of woodlots, taking into account
a mortality of about 15% in the nursery and 20% failure in the field



- 33 -
(Table 3a). However, this target would be flexible since it is dependent
on farmer response. The woodlots would be planted and managed either
individually or by groups under a 5 year coppice cycle and a 15 year
rotation system. Assuming an average woodlot size of about j ha,
approximately 7,000 participants out of about 200,000 families in the 16
districts -ould respond to the program over the pilot phase of 4 years.9/
In order to produce wood continually on a- ha, 180 trees would have to be
planted on 1/10 ha each year over a 5 year period and this would produce 4
m3 of wood annually.LO/ The climatic and growth conditions would in
general allow a Mean Annual Increment (MAI) of about 10 m3 ha/year.
However, since the farmers' woodlot management might often not be up to
professional standards, the yield expectations have been reduced by 20% to
an MAI of 8 m3 ha/year.
5.02      While the ratio of fuelwood and poles production will finally be
determined by the farmers' needs, a production ratio of 75 to 25 for the
woodlot program has been assumed. The farmer's inputs are his labor and
cash for seedlings, chemicals for termite control and simple tools.
Demonstration Plots
5.03      Adjacent to the 48 nurseries the Forestry Commission would
establish demonstration plots of an average size of five ha. Since these
plots would be intensively managed for demonstrating planting and
harvesting methods, an MAI of 10 m3 ha can be expected.
Block Plantations
5.04      The Project would establish about 1,050 ha of Rural Plantations
and about 350 ha of Urban Plantations (para 2.24). The seedlings required
for these plantations would be grown in temporary nurseries. The MAI has
been estimated at 10 m3 ha and a coppice cycle of 5 years.   Production
figures are in Table 3. Total rotation time would be 15 years before
replanting is required. No serious problem is foreseen in establishing the
rural plantations since FC has ample experience with these types of
plantations in the commercial sector. However, marketing and pricing has
to be carefully analyzed during the pilot period. A stumpage rate would be
determined based on the forest policy study carried out under the project
(para 2.16). Estimated potential wood production from the woodlots,
demonstration plots and block plantations is shown in Table 3.
9/   Given the pilot nature of the Project, estimates of areas to be
planted and production, particularly for woodlots, are highly
tentative.
10/  To meet a deficit of 6 m3 a planted area equivalent to 3/4 ha would be
needed.



-- 34 -
VI. BENEFITS, JIUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
Direct Benefits
6.01      Fuelwood and poles.  The FC block plantations and demonstration
woodlots as well as seedlings planted by individuals, groups or
organizations will result eventually in a significant volume of wood
production. This wood, usable as fuelwood and poles, would constitute the
Project's main quantifiable benefit. Harvesting of eucalyptus trees
planted would start from the sixth year from commencement of the Project
(Year 6). One seedling crop is expected to produce over three coppice
cycles of five years each, with a b:Lank year between cycles. Thus,
production would occur from Year 6 through Year 19 (Table 3). Assuming
production at an average of 10 m3/ha/year, the average annual wood
production from block plantations and demonstration woodlots over this
19-year period is estimated at 15,000 m3 and 2,600 m3, respectively. If
the 48 nurseries to be established under the Project each sold its capacity
production of 100,000 seedlings per year, this would enable planting of up
to a total of 3,680 ha during the three-year nursery production period.
Over the 19-year period, these woodlots would produce an annual average
amount of about 23,200 m3 of wood, assuming a lower yield of 8 m3/ha/year
as compared to that of block plantations. The estimated average annual
production from block plantations and on-farm woodlots of 38,200 m3 will
meet the full wood requirements of 3,820 CA families, assuming this
requirement at 10 m3/year.  In practice the output should meet the partial
requirements of a larger number of families.
6.02      Employment.  Employment under the Project will increase
progressively during implementation, and in the fourth year 340 permanent
full-time positions (both skilled and unskilled) are expected to be
generated. This level of employment should be maintained thereafter if a
modest rural afforestation program, as under this initial phase, is
continued. If a full-fledged program is launched, as is expected,
full-time employment would increase. The permanent jobs created would be
mostly in the CAs, and it is expected that most of the new employees would
be drawn from the local population. In addition, the Project would provide
an estimated aggregate of 4,150 man-months of casual employment over the
four-year implementation period, mostly from forestry operations which are
concentrated over a three to four-month period each year. Beyond the
four-year period, casual employment will drop if planting operations are
reduced. Many temporary employment opportunities would also be provided by
the construction program.
Indirect Benefits
6.03      Value of time and labor saved.  In addition to direct employment
benefits, the Project will contribute to labor savings, especially for
women, who are the primary collectors of fuelwood in the rural areas. It
has been estimated that in severe wood deficit areas women spend up to 20%
of their productive time collecting wood. Released labor is always
absorbed in a diffused way and consequently it is difficult, in the absence
of supporting research, to measure how much of the time saved as a result
of conveniently located source of J-uelwood would actually be spent on
alternative productive activities.  It is expected, however,  that at least



- 35 -
some of the labor time saved from collecting wood would be spent on more
productive work and this time taken net of that required to maintain the
new woodlots would represent an indirect benefit stemming from the Project.
6.04      Environmental benefits.  The major environmental benefits from
the rural afforestation program would be soil conservation, 1improvement of
micro-climate and slow down of destruction of natural forest. Since most
of the communal lands are in semi-arid areas, the loss of the natural
forest cover leads to irreversible damage to soils and their productive
capacity. The beginning of the desertification process can be observed in
the most populated areas. Thus, afforestation would help to maintain the
productivity of an agricultural area.
6.05      Benefits for future rural afforestation projects.  The proposed
Project would also establish a foundation for an expanded afforestation
program to be implemented in the future. The project training component
would improve management and technical staff capacity to plan and execute a
large scale program by providing staff with first hand operational
knowledge of rural forestry schemes and familiarizing them with issues not
conventionally examined in commercially-oriented forestry training. The
studies component is expected to shed light on farmer response to rural
afforestation programs, and would in addition provide a means for
rationalizing the pricing structure for fuelwood and other energy. A
strong monitoring and evaluation unit is supported under the Project to
identify factors impeding project implementation and develop possible
solutions so that they can be incorporated into future planning. The
research component of the Project is directed toward producing wood of
greater acceptability and higher calorific value, which would ultimately
contribute to a reduction in demand for fuelwood and consequently to a time
savings in wood collection and/or production. No attempt has been made to
quantify these benefits.
B. Financial Returns and Fiscal Impact
6.06      The Project envisages tree planting by (a) individual farmers,
(b) local authorities, schools and cooperative groups, and (c) the
Forestry Commission.  Since the Project is of a pilot nature no overall
Financial Return has been calculated, but in order to estimate the
attractiveness of tree growing for those expected to participate in the
Project, Financial Rates of Return have been calculated seperately for
individuals, groups and block plantations. The financial returns vary
considerably depending on the inputs necessary to establish plantations
such as hired permanent labor, administrative overheads, land preparation
and subsidies. The expected financial rate of return from woodlots
established by local authorities, schools and cooperative groups who would
be eligible for tools, fencing, chemicals and subsidised seedlings is
estimated at 26% 11/ while the estimated financial rate of return for
individual farmer woodlots who would receive only subsidised seedlings, is
18%. The FC plantations (block plantations and demonstration woodlots)
however, would have an financial rate of return of only 7.7% 12/
11/ Assuming production of 25% poles and 75% fuelwood.
12/ Assuming production of 70% poles and 30% fuelwood.



- 36 -
since inputs such as hired permanent labor, administrative overheads and
expensive land clearing techniques (FC plantations are generally in forest
reserves) bring down the financial rate of rturn. These costs do not occur
in community or individual woodlots. The FC would establish fuelwood and
pole plantations only in areas where the rural or urban population will not
be able to do it on their own (para 2.24). There is, however, room for
improving the financial rate of return of the FC established plantations by
reducing land clearing costs and improved management techniques. The FC
would carry out trials with different land clearing methods under the block
plantation program (para 2.17 (e)).
6.07      In regard to the continuing impact of the Project beyond the
implementation period, the estimates are as follows. At the completion of
the Project, staff salaries, expenses for incremental staff and replacement
costs of vehicles and equipment, in current terms, would amount to about
Z$1.4 million per year. The revenue accruing to the FC annually from sale
of seedlings at the level of production at the fourth year and from the
sale of poles and fuelwood commencing from the sixth year, is estimated at
about Z$0.7 million. Thus, approximately one-half of recurring annual
expenditures are expected to be met from revenues, and the other half from
Government budgetary allocations.
C. Economic Analysis
6.08      Economic rates of return have been calculated for the directly
productive components of the Project with fuelwood and poles being the
major direct economic benefits. Valuation of direct benefits is discussed
in para 6.10. No attempt has been made to quantify the indirect benefits
discussed in paras 6.03 - 6.05. Calculations assume a 19-year Project
production span (para 6.01). Operating and investment costs relating to
the production of fuelwood and poles within that time horizon are included,
with the following exceptions:
(a) Research costs have been omitted because the resulting benefits
are not readily quantifiable and are too long term and of an
unpredictable nature for inclusion in the analysis.
(b) Half of the costs of establishing the Rural Afforestation
Division have been omitted because of the long-term institution
building benefits, which would be accrued with future projects.
Thus, approximately 63% of total Project costs have been taken into account
in the economic analysis.
Efficiency Prices
6.09      The following assumptions and adjustments were made in the
economic analysis to obtain efficiency prices.
(a)   Despite the likelihood that only idle or marginal land unsuitable
for agriculture would be used, a positive value for the
opportunity costs of land has been included because of the
cumulatively large land area earmarked for the Project and the
possible significance of this as an economic cost factor. The



- 37 -
opportunity cost of land has been valued at Z$10 per ha which is
a little more than the total value of output per ha achieved in
the communal lands in 1980 (Z$9.12 per ha) according to the
Zimbabwe Monthly Digest of Statistics.
(b) Different conversion factors have been used for the major
categories of project costs to reflect the different degrees of
distortion to which they are subject to in the Zimbabwean
economy.
(c) The economic valuation of wood output is difficult because there
is no international market in fuelwood. The domestic markets are
imperfect, reflecting the low private costs of clearing forest at
present rather than the considerable long term cost of forest
depletion. In addition, the demand for fuelwood is highly price
inelastic given the high cost or unavailability of alternative
energy sources, such as electricity and fossil fuel derivatives.
While at present the use of crop residues and dung as fuel in
high wood deficit areas is not very widespread, it is a practice
which should be discouraged because of its negative consequences
for agriculture.
6.10      One method of estimating the economic value of fuelwood is to
value the wood output at what it would cost to replace it with the cheapest
alternative source of energy. Such analysis has been conducted for some
common fuels (coal, kerosene and charcoal) based on a comparison of
calorific values, heating efficiency and transport costs (Table 7). Taking
into consideration basic transport costs alone, coal has the lowest price
per ton at the point of consumption followed by commercially produced wood,
charcoal and kerosene. This ranking remains the same when heating
efficiency is taken into account. When cooking efficiency is introduced,
coal remains the least cost option. However, in considering the cost of
using coal as the most viable alternative to commercially produced wood,
one must take into account the pro-rated added cost of a more sophisticated
stove. The cost of replacing one ton of wood with useful cooking energy
equivalent of coal is estimated at approximately Z$13 (Table 7). This cost
has been used as a starting point for very roughly estimating the economic
value of wood. It should be noted, however, that coal is not presently
consumed in significant amounts for cooking or heating in the rural areas,
and its introduction would involve a substantial change in rural habits.
It would also probably require considerable investment in storage
facilities and high distribution and handling costs. In short, when the
logistics of supplying coal on a mass scale in the rural areas are fully
considered, the costs of substituting coal for wood become significantly
higher. It is estimated that these added costs would increase the coal
price to the consumer by 50%-100% of the estimated wood-equivalent cost of
Z$13. Taking the estimate of added costs at a conservative 50%, the
estimated economic value per ton of wood would be Z$19, or about Z$27 per
cubic meter. This price, it must be recalled, is of necessity only
indicative as the economic price to any family would vary considerably
depending on its location and circumstances.



- 38 -
6.11      An indicative rate of return based on the above assumptions would
be of the order of 14% for the best case scenario assuming 100% achievement
of project targets (Table 8).
Sensitivity Analysis
6.12      There is considerable uncertainty surrounding farmer response to
the proposed Project both in terms of their willingness to plant and
maintain trees as well as their ability to purchase seedlings and make
available part of their landholding for planting. In terms of the
Project's overall IRR, this factor, while important, is not critical given
the very large project variable cost component which makes it possible to
further reduce project size should Project development targets prove to be
unrealistic. Sensitivity analysis indicates that a 50% reduction in farmer
uptake, which would correspond to a 46% reduction in total Project
costs,would lower the Project IRR from 14% to 11%. Moreover, even at a
low adoption rate of 25% and holding total Project costs at the same level,
the financial rate of return is reduced only marginally to 10%.
D. Project Risks
6.13      The risk element in the training, research and plantation
components of the project is minimal, given the accumulated experience and
expertise of the respective implementing agencies in successfully carrying
out similar activities in the past. The Project, as the FC's first major
undertaking in the communal areas, will be confronted by a number of
unknowns and uncertainties, particularly as concerns the range of
socio-economic factors which will influence farmer acceptance of the
project concept and technical package. The principal Project risk relates
to the nursery component where obtaining adequate participation by the
smallholder in the tree planting program will remain a major challenge.
Overall project risks have been lessened by modestly sizing the Project as
a first phase scheme with elements cof a pilot venture, over a relatively
small area. To address the specific risk associated with farmer response,
the Project would develop extension and support services, and provide
inducements in the form of a Support Fund (para 2.22) which would provide
assistance in kind to groups who wish to establish woodlots of at least 1
ha. A farmers' attitude and practice study is also to be financed under
the Project to provide information on a variety of factors influencing
farmer receptiveness to the Project including land-holding patterns, the
nature and organization of production, time spent on wood collection, the
amount of wood purchased and the role of the local elite. Finally, the
proposed Project provides support for a strong monitoring and evaluation
unit. This unit will analyze data collected from the field staff, identify
factors impeding project implementation and disseminate possible solutions
so that they can be incorporated in future planning. Should,however, the
development program prove to be unrealistic and production and sales
targets not be met, the monitoring system is designed to identify what
caused the deviation from Project targets so that remedial action can be
taken. Successful implementation of Project objectives will depend on
cooperation and coordination between AGRITEX and FC staff particularly at
the field level. The formation of Ea Working Party or groups at various
levels (para 4.11) is intended to foster this relationship. However, since



- 39 -
two seperate Ministries are involved, a close watch will have to be kept on
the functioning of the Working Party to ensure smooth Project
implementation.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  A Head of Monitoring and Evaluation Unit acceptable to IDA
would be appointed, and the Unit would be established, no
later than September 30, 1983 (para 2.12);
(b)  a Baseline Survey would be carried out with the assistance
of consultants acceptable to IDA and in accordance with
terms of reference agreed with IDA, and its report submitted
no later than October 31, 1983 (para 2.16 (i));
(c)  the Wood Energy Utilization Study report would be submitted
to IDA by September 30, 1983 (para 2.16 (iv));
(d)  arrangements for land for urban block plantations would be
finalized before December 31, 1983 (para 2.26);
(e)  procurement procedures acceptable to IDA would be followed
(para 3.05);
(f)  seperate accounts relating to expenditures under the Project
would be kept, and these accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; the audited accounts
would be submitted to IDA within 6 months of the end of the
financial year; and a system of cost accounting would be set
up for the Project (para 3.08); and
(g)  six-monthly progress reports, Project review reports and a
Project Completion Report to be prepared not later than six
months after the Closing Date of the Project, would be
forwarded to IDA (para 3.09).
7.02      With the above assurances and conditions, the Project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$7.3 million on standard terms.



ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Wood Deficit Areas
Agricultural                                       No. of            Wood Deficit          No. of    Area   Families    No. of
Zone          Province         District   Communal Lands    Families m3/Annum    Families    Km2    Per Km2   Nurseries
II           Mashona
Land East   Marandellas            2                   9.0               6,984        769     9.1           2
Wedza                 1                   6.4               6,341     1,084      5.9           1
Mtoko                 1                   4.9              13,725    2,088       6.6           3
Goromonzi             5                   8.5              11,653     1,157    10.1            5
IV, V          Victoria      Gutu                   4                   9.3              24,675    3,594       6.9           6
Bikita                1                   3.0              16,076    2,631       6.1           2
Ndanga                1                   4.5              20,135    2,751       7.3           2
Nyanda                4                   6.6              12,209     1,689      7.2           4     .
Chibi                 2                   6.0               1,569    3,150       5.6           2    
III           Midlands      Selukwe                2                   8.1               6,228       825      7.6           2
Chilimanzi            1                   7.0               6,367     1,042      6.1           2
Charter               3                   6.7              14,224     1,996      7.1           3
I            Manicaland   Mutare                  6                   8.6              16,678    2,629       6.3           5
Makoni                4                   6.5              19,859    2,713       7.3           4
II, III, IV      Mashona
Land H
Central      Bindura               2                   8.5               2,031        343      5.9          2    a
Mazoe                 1                   7.4               7,332       862      8.5           2    O
TOTAL                                                                        202,091   29,323       7.1         48



ZIMBABWE
RURXL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
phasirg of  edlling Production
Year
1                            2                             3                             4
Wood Deficit          No           Seedling         ND          Seedling                      Seedling         ND           Seedling
Province     District      Family m3/Annun      Nurseries      Production     Nurseries     Production      Nurseries     Production      Norseries     Production
(O)0)                        (0)0)                         (0)0)                         (OD))
M-asho
lard East  Marandellas          9.0                 1             30            2               90            2              160             2            200
Wedza               6.4                 1             30            1               60            1             100              1            100
Mtoko               4.9                 1             30            2               90            2             160              2            200
Gkrorinzi           8.5                 1             30            3             120             5             28D             5             420
victoria    (cltu                9.3                 1             30            3              120            6             310              6            480
Bikita              3.0                 1             30            2              90             2             160             2            200
Ndand               4.5                1              30            2              90             2             190             2             200
Njanda              6.6                                             1              30             4             150             4             280
Chibi               6.0                                             2              60             4             180              2            320
2
Midlands     Selukw.e            8.1                 1             30            2               90            2              160             2            200 -
Chilimanzi          7.0                 1             30            2              90            2              160             2             200
Charter             6.7                                             1               30            3             120              3            220
Manicaland   Mutare              8.6                 1             30            3              120            5              280             5            420
Makcn               6.5                 1             30            3              120            4             250              4            360
MIashona
Central    Bindura              8.5                                             1               30            2              90              2            160
Mazoe               7.4                                             1              30             2              90              2            160
TaL                                    11            330           31            1260            48            2590            48           4120
s===s=======  ====c=====e=== ===e=========e==a=ee=e=:w=



ZIMBABWE
Rural Afforestation Proiect
Wood Production _/
Block Plantations               1      2      3      4       5         6        7       8        9        10       11       12       13        14        15        16        17        18         19
Pural   ha                     50    200    400   400
Harvested Poles m3 2/                                                1750    7000    14000   14000                1750    7000    14000    14000                  1750      7000      14000    14000
Firewood m3                                                         750    3000       6000    6000                750    3000       6000      6000                750      3000       6000      6000
51
Urban -
Planted ha                   50    100    100   100
Harvested Fuelwood m3                                              2500    5000       5000    5000               2500    5000       5000      5000               2500      5000      5000       5000
Demonstration Woodlots 41
Planted ha                   22      73      94    51
Harvested Poles Tm                                                  770    2550       3290    1790                770    2550       3290      1790                770      2550      3290       1790 ~
Firewood m                                                          330    1100       1410      760               330    1100       1410       70                 3 30     C110      1410        760
Farmers Woodlots
Planted ha                  134    522   1129  1855
Harvestel Poles  3 3/                                              1600    6260    13550   22740                 1600    6260    13550    22740                 1600       6260    13550       22740
Firewood m3                                                        3750   14620    31610   53060                 3750   14620    31610    53060                  3750    14620    31610        53060
Poles                                                 4120   15810    30840   38530                 4120   15810    20840    38530                 4120    15810    30840         38530
Firewood                                              7330   23720    44020   64820                 7330   23720    44020    6R42Q                 7330    23720    44020         64820
1/  Mean Annual Increment  8 m3/ha for farmers woodlot, all other plantations 10 m3 /ha
2/  70% Poles and 30% Firewood
3/  30% Poles and 70% Firewood                                                                                                                                                                     H
4/  Wood Production on 5 ha per woodlot at every nursery
Phasing first year 2 ha, second year 3 ha
5/  Locations - Rural:  Chesa Forest
Fuller Forest
Gwaai Forest
Mafungabusi Forest
Urban:  Chitungwisa Urban District in Harare
Senka and Makoba Townships in Gweru
Bulawayo
Mutare
Nyanda
July 16, 1982



- 4L3 -
Table  4
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Phasing of Project Costs
(Z$ '000)
Base Costs                   Tota l
1       2       3        4      7$    (.US$ ' 000)
A. INSTITUTION BUILDING
TRAINING                                   37.4    82.3    43.5    38.1   181.3        197.1
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                 132.8   102.2   121.7   111.9   468.6        509,3
PROJ. STAFFING AND INFRASTRUCTURE         778t4   670.1   577.9   563.9 2,590.3    2Y815.5
Sub-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING               948.6   834,6   743.1   713.? 39240.1    3,521.9
B. STUDIES AND RESEARCH
STUDIES                                   195.8   204.4    48.8    39.0   488.0        530.5
FORESTRY RESEARCH                         362.4   223.7   136b6   125.5   848.2        921.9
Sub-Total STUDIES AND RESEARCH               558.2   428.1   185.4   164.5 1,336,2    10452.4
C. AFFORESTATION
NURSERIES                                 213.1   444.5   487.1   244.2 1388.8    19509+6
SUPPORT FUND                                  -    51.5    58.8    58,8   169.0        183.8
TRIAL AND DEMONSTRATION PLOTS              30.5    60.2    56.9    10.2   157.8        171.5
BLOCK PLANTATIONS                         155.3   398.3   344.2   279.3 1,177.1    1!127.9.
PUBLICITY AND CAMPAIGN                     55.1    29.8    29.8    29.8   144.5        157.0
Sub-Total AFFORESTATION                      454.0   984.2   976.7   622.3 3,037.2    3!301.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                         1,960.7 2,246b8 1,905.2 1,500t8 7,613.6    B!2751.6
Physical Continenrcies                      128.6   114.6    82,1    45t8   371,1        403i4
Price Contingencies                         112.6   4049   62?7.4   607.5 1,752.4    1,v904.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                          2,201,9 2,766,4 2,614.8 2.154.1 90737.1   10,583.8
Foreign Exchange                            835.6   700.4   369.0   232.9 2,137.9 29323.8
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _- -_- - - - - - - - - - -



- 44 -
Table 5
ZIEMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements 2/
US$ M
IDA
FY/Quarter                                       Disbursements
Ending                                 Quarter                     Cumulative
1983/84
September 30, 19831/                     1.2                           1.2
December 31, 1983                         .4                            1.6
March 31, 1984                            .4                           2.0
June 30, 1984                             .4                           2.4
1984/85
September 30, 1984                        .6                           3.0
December 31, 1984                         .6                           3.6
March 31, 1985                            .6                            4.2
June 30, 1985                             .6                           4.8
1985/86
September 30, 1985                        .4                           5.2
December 31, 1985                         .4                           5.6
March 31, 1986                            .4                           6.0
June 30, 1986                             .4                           6.4
1986/87
September 30, 1986                        .3                           6.7
December 31, 1986                         .2                           6.9
March 31, 1987                            .2                           7.1
June 30, 1987                             .2                           7.3
1/  Estimated effective date July   1983 (includes retroactive financing
from July 1982).
2/  There is no historical basis for estimating disbursements rates for
agricultural Projects in Zimbabwe. However, the missions best
judgement and the disbursemeni: profile of the Malawi NRDP II project
which is similar to this project have been used in estimating this
schedule.



Table 6
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Unit    Total   Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4
Nurseries/Plantations 1/
Nurseries                     No.       48   -11            0 _      17_
Distrib. Points               No.       96    _11           1        37        17_
Demo. Woodlots                Ha       240       29        73        94_        1_
Rural Plantation              Ha      1050        0    _ 200    _400    _400 _
Urban Plantation              Ha       350        0    _100    _100    _100_
Vehicle/Equipment
Vehicles                      No.       51   _-38          13_
Equipment
Studies
Soc. Economic
C.A. For. Resource
C.A. For. Policy
Wood Energy
Phase II
Key Staff
Div. Manager                  No.         1
Accountant                    No.         1
Head of Planning              No.         1
Forestry Training Sp.         No.         1
Res. Officer                  No.         1
Prov. Managers                No.        5        ? _-- _  4         -5
District Manager              No.        16      11 _      16_
Civil Works
Houses                        No.      109       4         4?        ?5
Office/Store                  No.       67        3         6        18 _
1/ In view of the 'pilott nature of the project the schedule shown is tentative
and flexible.



- 46 -
Table 7
Page 1
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Energy Equivalent Costs of Some Common Fuels
(All prices in Z$)
Columrns     1      2       3       4        5         6      7           8
S
00      ;_4     ~~~C)  U4  
4s) ~4           0       W4  X
4J               ,-I                50   14   04
S                C                 U0a0   U   
g4      A             C) Transport  4    4o X a       44
C~~~~~)          '  ^        W  4       a) q 
     P C    Costs    Q o         i  
CDaJ    Km      Xz    H .> r-W
X      -4 --           US)  u           U a     4J -H
4-    a)J0             H H H            - H                  0H %4 4
0     CU      - O                               w C)  z  a X
z     X          3:    P r  20    100  P          X          U
Wood (air
dry)   i     3.5      1.00   25.0  2.60         27.6    27.6        7%
Coal        ii     6.9      1.97   11.4         13.0  24.4    12.4       25%
Kerosene   iii    10.4      2.97  273.0         13.0 286.0    96.3       40%
Charcoal    iv      7.1     2.02   65.0         13.0  78.0    38.6       28%
Notes: (i)  The fuelwood is air dry (25-30% moisture content).  Price is derived
from the Block Plantation growing costs and includes the costs of
felling, preparation and loading. While no reliable data are available
on fuelwood, prices in urban areas, a very limited survey of Hararie
markets revealed a wholesale fuelwood price ranging upward from Z$20
per cord and retailing between Z$30-40 per cord.
(ii)  The price of coal is regulated under the Coal Price Agreement (CPA)
signed by the GOZ and Wankie Colliery Company, Ltd., on August 31, 1976
and amended November 1981 and will expire August 31, 1995. The price
quoted is the price per ton for unwashed (household) coal at the
colliery. The price increases depending on rail distances from Wankie.
(iii)  Kerosene (wholesale ) is sold at one fixed price at major depots
throughout the country.
(iv)  Charcoal is not used to any great extent in Zimbabwe with annual demand
ranging from 7 to 10 thousand tons from industry and some urban
households.
(v) Interview data indicate commercial road transport charges of 13 cents/
ton/kilometer. It is assumed that wood is available at an average
distance of 20 km from the consumer and coal, kerosene and charcoal at
a distance of 100 km.
(vi)  Cooking efficiency for fuelwood is based on a three-stone pot
arrangement and for Kerosene on a moveable wick stove.



- 47 -
Table 7
Page 2
Price of One
Ton of Wood                                        Total (Cost per
Equivalent at         Cost of        Cost of       Ton of Wood
Fuel     Point of Origin       Transport       Tech.        Equivalent)
-- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- - $Z  --------_-- - - -- ________--
Wood          25.0 1/          2.6 (20 Kms)       1.0            28.6
Coal           1.6 2/          1.8 (100 Kms) 2/  9.3 3/          12.7 4/
1/  Price is derived from the block plantation growing costs and includes
the costs of felling, preparation and loading. This represents the
worst case situation as the price derived from the on-farm woodlots
is Z$15.
2/  The amount of coal needed to generate the same amount of useful heating
energy for cooking as one ton of wood would be roughly 0.14 tons of
coal. A very conservative estimate of the base cost of transporting one
ton of coal to the consumer (an average of 100 Km) is Z$13.00. This
transport cost, however, excludes the cost of storage and handling which
would prove necessary if coal were to be used to a large extent in rural
areas.
3/  Z$9.3 represents the prorated share of costs over the useful life
(about 2 years) of a locally manufactured stove; initial cost Z$99.
4/  Does not include the roughly Z$6-7 of estimated added costs (handling,
storage, distribution, etc) of substituting coal for wood on a mass scale
in the rural areas.
December 21, 1982



- 48 -
Table 8
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
'Incremental      Incremental      Net Incremental
Periods                 Benefits           Costs            Benefits
1                        0.00           492.90           -492.90
2                         0.00          752.50           -752.50
3                         0.00          798.70           -798.70
4                         0.00          649.20           -649.20
5                         0.00          543.00           -543.00
6                      311.40           530.50           -219.10
7                    1,075.20           533.00            542.20
8                    2,036.20           549.20          1,487.00
9                    2,811.10           576.60          2,234.50
10                         0.00          534.60           -534.60
11                      311.40           531.20           -219.80
12                    1,075.20           533.80            541.40
13                    2,036.20           549.40          1,486.80
14                    2,811.10           575.00          2,236.10
15                        0.00           547.70           -547.70
16                      311.40           516.80           -205.40
17                    1,075.20           540.00            535.20
18                    2,036.20           552.70          1,483.50
19                    2,811.10           578.60          2,232.50



- 49 -
ANNEX
ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available In Project File
A. Background Reports and Papers
1. The Whitsun Foundation, Zimbabwe: Rural Afforestation Study
(Project 3.22, January 1981). (The Whitsun Foundation, established
in 1975, is a private non-profit development agency.)
2. J.B. Smart, Consultant: Preparation Report, Rural Afforestation Project.
August 1981.
3. The Forestry Commission, Zimbabwe: The Rural Afforestation Project,
in two volumes. April 1982.
4. J.R. Whitlow: Deforestation in Zimbabwe, Some Problems and Projects.
(National Resources Board/Forestry Commission, Zimbabwe, September
1980.)
B. Legislation
1. The Forest Act (Chapter 125)
2. Tribal Trust Land Act, 1979.
3. Draft Communal Land Act, 1982.
4. Tribal Trust Land Forest Produce Act (Chapter 247).
5. The District Councils Act (Chapter 231).
6. The Natural Resources Act (Chapter 150).
C. Working Papers and Other Miscellaneous Documents
1. Policy, Aims, Objectives and Functions of the Department of Agricultural
Technical and Extension Services, AGRITEX (Ministry of Agriculture,
November 1981).
2. Letter dated June 9, 1982 from AGRITEX regarding its role in the Rural
Afforestation Project.
3. Detailed Project Costs:
(i) Staffing, Training and Infrastructure
(ii) Monitoring and Evaluation
(iii) Studies
(iv) Research



- 50 -
ANNEX
Page 2
(v) Nurseries
(vi) Support Fund
(vii) Demonstration and Trial Plots
(viii) Block Plantation
(ix) Publicity and Campagins
4. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5. M.M. Horowitz, Consultant: Social Analysis Working Paper
6.  Technical Aspects of Rural Afforestation Project



-                  ZIMBABWE
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Project Organization - Illustrative Diagramli
Ministry of Natural Resources     Other Ministries
and Tourism                                                          Ministry of Agriculture
Project Coordinating
Committee2/                            Professional and Technical
Forestry Commission                                                         Services Branch
(Board of Commissioners)                                                         (Dy. Sec.)
Director                                                                AGRITEX
|                                                                    (Director)
Manager, Operations                                                                   Manager, Administration                  Dy. Director
M&E                                                                                                  l
(Evaluation
Officer)                                                           I            I             l              l
U          ~~~~Finance    Training and    Central      Project         Field             Technical Services
Ru ral                         Research            Division     Publicity     Services      Coordinator    (Asst. Dir.)             (Asst. Dir.)
Afforestation Div.                   Division           (Manager)       Div.          Div.                             I                      I
(Manager)                                                I            I            I                           Provinces          Specialist Branches
|                                               Divisional     Nyabara      Technical                      (PAEO) '
Dy. Manager             Forest Research    Research  Accountants    Training      Services                     (Specialists)
Dy. Manager       Center, Harare    Stations       (3)         College     (Resource
Div. Accountant                     (3)                                   Survey)                                         Crop         Training
I                                                                                Asst. AEO      Production       (CTO)
F -                    ~~~~~~Specialist                                                                   Communal Lands
Block          Woodlots and         Staff                                                                                                  I
Plantations         Nurseries                                                                                                            Specialists
I .   |                                                                                          Regional             l
(District
Provincial                                                                                            - AEO)          Forestry
Urban       Rural       Managers                                                                                                  |           Specialist
(4 Rangers)      (5)                                                                                                Extension
I                                                                                               Supervisors
District                                                                                                |
Managers
(16)                                                                                               Extension
I                                                                                                Assistants
Nursery
Supervisors
1/ Not a formal or official organization chart, this diagram shows the various organizational units expected to be involved in the Project.
It does not show the complete organizations of the two Ministries above.
2. Ministries and agencies represented are: Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (Chairs), Forestry Commission, Ministries of Agriculture/AGRITEX, of
Finance, Economic Planning and Development, of Local Government and Housing, of Lands, Resettlement and Rural Development, of Education and Culture
and of Youth, Sport and Recreation.
3/ Provincial Agricultural Extension Officer.
July 15, 1982                                                                                                                                      World Bank-24271






IBRD 16755
2'5'                                                                                28                                                                                                tM                             aOCTOBER 1982
Z IMABABWE                                                                                                                                                           Cb~ 
RURAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT                                                                                        V[
-16'                                   NATURAL REGIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
RELATED FARMING  SYSTEMS:                   Mao,o Roads
M  Specialized and  Diversified                Secondary Roads                                                                                                                                   \0
Ine,sive Farming Region               .-  R,ve,s
EM intensi,e Farming Region               00   Major Cihies
I  Semi- intensive Formipr  Regiae         o   Other Selected Towns                                 ./u
f ~Sermi-itecsive Forming Region                eenroalSudre
Eatensine Forming Regian
170~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
200                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         200-
Tarn ionha b-O      b,ikO oh in
WoOd Rak  a!ranrSi
konaa  hnia in  -`in                                                                                                                                 bani
WOaW Sank asi ill afhS,iain.-
21'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
2 1'     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                                             2 2 0 -






IBRD 16587
F    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~V ~~~~~28-                                                                                     3o'03                                                                                                                           SEPTEMBER 1982
ZAMBEZI  ZP ZIMBABWE
KILOMETERS 0          SE          lEE          50          200          2 50 
__ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _                                                                                'I                                                                                     RURAL  AFFORESTATION    PROJECT
MILESO                   50                                      155                                                                                     C
A                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT:
VF~IVAVY,                                                                   Slock pl.awtto  program    f-ort l-d
~~~  wits.                                 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~Ikpha-totiorFg        ~~, ...
S    W/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FSFoetln
0     To--o
S-cRnd-ryrad
\'.\                                                                                                                                                           ...-'. District~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M     -oodare
IBIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hgto*Poico orao
w  F    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ItRnaionlbon-re
Maydido core),,. b-.,
ANE Al AA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGL  E'~e
REPI OE            TANZAIAN
0    T    S    W    A    N    A                                                                                                                        j~~~~~~~~~'5~                 -
Ta,eaa.ooreersd~c5e Wnld8.Poaa~tnrc,atptesnroaeer;eoo                                                                                                                                                   AFICA   '               OCwe
etta,,.,g.n,eota.m.pansrawoeo,a,aas,oOes. Ms O,oor,ar.5,on. c,ed,ndrO, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        A NG 0L A            Z AM B I 
Rocodaoac SOerro ouSt,. ~~~~~rou 4000110rpM. QOSS. p.050050, We.td 05,0 ~~~~~~~~nd/ta
2K    28                                                  SOUtH           ArRICA                             \ 32~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-                  OU                      cf,



