Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,-1LE COPY. I
Report No. 4138-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
January 28, 1983
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =     Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00               =     HK 1.08
MK 1.00               =     US$ 0.92
SDR 1.00              =     US$ 1.10311
MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)  =      10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 kilometer (km)      =     0.6214 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)        =     2.471 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS
EPD     -     Economic Planning Division of the Office
of the President and Cabinet
IPA     -     Institute of Public Administration
JC      -     Junior Certificate
MCA     -     Malawi College of Accountancy
MCC     -     Malawi Correspondence College
MCE     -     Malawi Certificate of Education
MIE     -     Malawi Institute of Education
MOE     -     Ministry of Education and Culture
MOW     -     Ministry of Works
PIU     -     Project Implementation Unit
PSLC    -     Primary School Leaving Certificate
PTTC    -     Primary T'eacher Training College
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Table of Contents
BASIC DATA                                                                      PAGE No.
I.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER NEEDS
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting   .......... ...........   1
Development Objectives and Trends   .........................    1
Manpower Situation and Needs . .            ............................    2
II.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Summary ...........................    ......................    3
Management of the Education System .........................                  3
Quality of Primary Education  ...........................    4
Expansion of Secondary Education  ...........................    6
Training of Mliddle and High Level Mlanpower ......             ...........   9
Financing of Education  ...................................    10
Government Policies and Plans . .............................   12
III. BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE, KNOWLEDGE, AND LENDING STRATEGY
Past Experience and Lessons Learned  .........            ...............  13
Bank Group Sector Knowledge ................................  14
Bank Group Lending Strategy   ...............................  15
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives   ...................................   16
Primary Teacher Training  ................................  18
Correspondence Education  ................................   19
Secondary Education  ...................................    20
Accountancy Education  ...................................  21
Studies, Evaluation and Auditing ..........           ...............  21
Female Participation in the Project  ........              ...............  22
Monitoring of Education Financing  ..........            ................  22
Summary of Technical Assistance and Training ................23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Malawi in June 1982. The mission consisted of Mr. L. Wolff (Education
Planner, mission leader), Ms. R. Brandenburg (Economist), Mr. K. Andersen
(Architect, consultant), Mr. T. Derkx (Specialist in Non-formal Education,
consultant), and Mr. P. Holzer (Specialist in Accountancy Education,
consultant). The project was further discussed in the field in October
1982 by Mr. L. Wolff and Mrs. N. Shields (Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.   PROJECT COST AND FINAITCIAL PLAN                          PAGE No.
Project Cost ... ..... .. .o.........eo.o.o..o...o. oooe.. 24
Financial  Plan   . . ..    .............  ....o..........o....  26
VI. IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND REPORTING
Implementation   .............I.......................  27
Procurement   ......... ..   ............................   28
Disbursement .........................n.........             29
Reporting and Auditing .. . .. ....... ........ ...         29
VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits .......... ......... ......                        30
Risks   .................    .o7....... .O...o..........  e......   31
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .  ............ ..... 31
ANNEXES
Annex 1.  Supporting Tables and Charts
Table 1.       Higher Level Employment in Selected Occupations, 1979
Table 2.       Forecast of High and Middle Level Manpower 1980-1990
Table 3.       Comparative Education Indicators
Table 4.       Enrollments and Internal Efficiency in Primary
Education, 1980-1990
Table 5.       Primary School Enrollments and Teacher Needs,
1979-1990
Table 6.       Secondary School Enrollments and Teacher Needs,
1979-1990
Table 7.       Enrollment in the Malawi Correspondence College,
1975-1981
Table 8.       Estimated Expenditures, Ministry of
Education and Culture, 1980-1990
Table 9.       Summary of Estimated Project Costs
Table 10.      Baseline Costs by Component
Table 11.      Estimated Project Costs by Category
Table 12.      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Chart 1.       Full-time Enrollment and Population Pyramid, 1980
Chart 2.       Structure of the Formal Education System
Chart 3.       Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture
Chart 4.       Implementation Schedule
Annex 2.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Annex 3.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP -- IBRD No.  16689



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
BASIC DATA
General
Area (including lake)                                   118,000 sq.km
Area (land only)                                        94,000 sq.km
Population (1981)                                       6.1 million
GNP Per Capita (1981)                                   US$200
Annual Growth Rate of Population (1966-1977)            2.9%
Education
School Year                                             October-August
Adult Literacy Rate (1977)                              25%
Gross Enrollment Ratios (1981):
Primary Education (6-13 age group)                 62.0%
Secondary Education (14-17 age group)              4.0%
Higher Education                                   0.4%
Central Government Expenditures on Education
as Percentage of Total Government Expenditures (1981)
Capital                                            11.9%
Recurrent                                          11.2%
Total                                              11.4%
Total Ministry of Education Expenditures as a
Percentage of GDP (1981)                              3.5%






I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER NEEDS
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting
1.01      Malawi is a land-locked country in South Eastern Africa, bordered
in the north and north-east by Tanzania, to the east, south, and south-west
by Mozambique, and to the west by Zambia.  It has a total area of about
118,000 km2 of which 24,000 km2 is lake surface. The land area consists of
a central plateau, a mountainous northern region, southern low lands, and
the lake shore districts. Malawi's main physical assets are moderately
fertile soils, adequate water resources, and a climate favorable to a wide
range of agricultural products, including tobacco, sugar cane, and cotton.
Malawi's population, which was estimated to be about 6.1 million in
mid-1981, grew at a rate of 2.9% from 1966-77 and population growth is now
estimated at 3.4% p.a. With an average density of 59 persons per km2 of
land area, Malawi is one of the most densely populated countries in
Africa. However, the population is scattered and only 10% live in urban
areas.
1.02      Malawi's GDP per capita in 1981 was estimated at US$200
equivalent. Between 1969 and 1979, Malawi made considerable economic
progress and real GDP grew at an average of 5.5% p.a.   However, in 1980,
the economy of Malawi experienced a sharp break with past trends. Rates
of growth in 1980 and 1981 are estimated at 0.2% and 0.9% respectively,
resulting in decreases in per capita income. The economy has remained
highly vulnerable to international price fluctuations, especially those of
its two primary export commodities, tea and tobacco. Since 1978 the
country's balance of payments situation has deteriorated, principally
because of declines in commodity prices and a doubling of the fuel import
bill. Transport difficulties through the Mozambique ports which serve
Malawi have also slowed GDP growth. In response to this situation, in
early 1982 the Government introduced short term demand management measures,
including revenue increases and restraints on recurrent and capital
expenditures.
Development Objectives and Trends
1.03     The Statement of Development Policies 1971-1980 set out the
Government's basic priorities for development and provided a framework for
long-term development planning. The Government has not prepared a
development statement for the 1980's similar to that of the 1970's but has
produced rolling five year development plans concentrated on capital
investments. Recently the Government prepared informal documents providing
revenue and recurrent cost projections. These documents envisaged an
average rate of growth in real GDP of 4.8% p.a. through 1985, lower than
the 6.5% rate recorded throughout the 1960's and 1970's. The Government
has since revised downward its projections and now expects 3% p.a. growth
in GDP through 1985, resulting in a stagnation of per capita income.
During this period the Government plans to hold the current account
deficits at manageable levels through diversification and acceleration of
agricultural export growth and improvement in the financial performance of
the Government and para-statal enterprises.



-2-
Manpower Situation and Needs
1.04      Employment.  Reliable data concerning employment and earnings in
Malawi are available only for the formal sector of the economy, which
accounts for little more than 10% of the total labor force. Preliminary
estimates indicate that the volume of paid employment increased from about
339,000 in 1978 to only about 365,000 in 1981, a result of the overall
slowdown in GDP growth. In 1980, it was estimated that some 14,000
Malawian workers were employed in the mines in the Republic of South
Africa, in contrast to the 123,000 a year in the early 1970's. Remittances
from these workers represent a significant source of foreign exchange
receipts.
1.05      Manpower Requirements.  At the time of independence in 1962,
given the small number of citizens with post primary education, there was
an urgent need to train the essential middle and higher level manpower
required to take effective control of the economy. Priority was given to
establishing higher educational institutions and expanding secondary school
capacity. The 1971 Manpower Survey forecast the manpower requirements for
the period ending in 1980. Subsequently, the "Educational Plan for Malawi
1973-1980" set broad goals for the development of the educational system
during the 1970's. However, the ambitious growth objectives of the plan
were not met. As a result of a combination of slow growth of the education
system and rapid economic growth, the output from both secondary and higher
education now falls far short of 1he manpower needs of the economy. Unlike
the situation in some Eastern Afr:ican countries, graduates of secondary and
tertiary educational institutions enjoy nearly full employment and the rate
of return to investment in secondary education is reported to be high.
1.06      To enable the Government to plan its human resource development
strategy for the 1980's, a new Manpower Survey was undertaken in 1979.
This survey showed that Malawi continues to be dependent on expatriates
for high and middle level positionas.  Although the number of expatriates in
relation to total employment in the modern sector is only 5%, their impact
on the economy is considerable since they hold many decision-making
positions. Expatriates are often employed because local candidates lack
the relevant training and experience for vacant positions. With regard to
particular occupations, 43% of alL administrators and managers, 39% of all
architects and engineers, 57% of all accountants and auditors, and 20% of
all farm managers are expatriates (Annex 1, T-1).
1.07      It is noteworthy that the percentage of expatriate accountants
and auditors is higher than that for any other professional category. Of
712 accountants and auditors employed in Malawi, 408 were expatriates.
Interviews held with general managers, financial executives and chief
accountants of fifteen of the largest parastatal and private companies
revealed that in only two firms was the chief accounting officer a Malawian
national. The shortage of qualified Malawians is also acute in Government
service. Most key accounting positions in the ministries are held by
expatriate accountants. In the Auditor General's Office, roughly 50% of
the positions for qualified auditors are vacant. The six trained auditors
are inadequate to meet Government needs and only five of the eighteen



-3-
assistant auditors have diploma level training in accounting.  The cost of
employing expatriate accountants in Malawi is estimated at two to three
times that of employing equally qualified Malawians.
1.08      The shortages of middle and higher level personnel will persist
through the 1980's. Bank staff have estimated that, even on the basis of
reduced GDP growth rates, the shortfall of trained persons by 1990 is
expected to be about 4,900 for those with post-secondary training, 5,300
for those with secondary level training, and 12,500 for those with junior
secondary level training (Annex 1, T-2.). If the economy improves after
1985 these shortages would more than double at the upper secondary and
higher levels. A partial solution to the problem, especially at higher
levels, could be employment of more expatriates. Apart from its high cost,
this policy would contravene the Government's policy of reducing its
dependence on expatriates. Further expansion of secondary and higher
education beyond the planned increases is possible, especially if certain
cost saving measures are taken, but high capital and recurrent costs and
other competing demands on the Government's budget will limit these
increases. The Government's development plans are therefore likely to
continue to be hindered by a lack of appropriately trained manpower.
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Summary
2.01     The underdeveloped education system in Malawi continues to be one
of the principal constraints to economic and social development.
Enrollment in primary education in 1981 was equal to only 62% of the school
age population, and only 23% of children who enter primary school complete
the eight year primary school course (Annex 1, C-1 and C-2). Only 4% of
school age children are attending secondary schools, a figure which is
among the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa (Annex 1, T-3) and which is entirely
inadequate to meet projected manpower needs (para. 1.08).  The output of
agricultural, industrial, commercial, and accounting technicians falls
short of manpower needs. Given competing demands from other sectors as
well as present economic difficulties, it will be difficult for the
Government to finance adequately the expansion and improvement of the
education system needed to meet manpower needs (para. 2.32).
Management of the Education System
2.02      The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE) is responsible for
the formal education system as a whole and directly administers primary,
secondary, technical, and correspondence education (Annex 1, C-3). It is
also officially responsible for a number of autonomous agencies, including
the University of Malawi, the Malawi Institute of Education (MIE), the
Malawi College of Accountancy (MCA), the Malawi Certificate of Education
and Testing Board, the Malawi Book Service, and the National Library
Service. The MOE has representation on the boards of these institutions



-4-
but has no direct control over their budget or internal activities.
Coordination between the MOE and these institutions is generally, however,
satisfactory.
2.03      The MOE is divided into academic, administrative, accounting, and
personnel units. A planning unit reports directly to the Principal
Secretary. The number of senior staff is too small to cope with other than
day-to-day administration and planning tasks, and some of the more
experienced staff have recently been promoted to high positions in other
ministries. The weak technical capacity in the MOE is similar to that of
other government ministries.
2.04       Under the Third and Fourth Education Projects (Credits 910-MAI
and 1123-MAI), the MOE is now being assisted in the areas of evaluation and
educational planning. With this assistance, the MOE is preparing a
National Education Plan, which will review progress made in education to
1982 and project growth and change in the education system through 1990.
The Plan, to be completed by mid-1983, is expected to pay particular
attention to meeting needs for trained manpower, financial implications of
growth of the education system, teacher requirements, and needs for
improvement of the organization of the education system. The Economic
Planning Division of the Office of the President and Cabinet (EPD) is
responsible for coordinating preparation of the plan.
2.05      In order to study and systematically improve the quality of
education, the Government in 1979 established the MIE, which is responsbile
for curriculum, textbook, and teaching aids development, for in-service
training, and for research and evaluation. The MIE initiated activities in
1982 with a restricted recurrent budget. The EEC has agreed to provide
about K600,000 in financial aid to the MIE (para. 2.10). With these and
local funds, the MIE will concentrate on in-service training of teachers,
headmasters, and school inspectors at the primary level. The MIE benefits
from UNDP/Unesco technical assistance and is actively recruiting qualified
Malawians for key posts.
Quality of Primary Education
2.06      Primary education is the weakest element of the education system
and must be improved in the future as a means of raising farmer and worker
productivity and serving as a base for further education and essential
skill training. Enrollment has increased significantly from 430,000 in
1971-72 to over 800,000 in 1980-81 but still represents only 62% of the
school age population. Repeater and dropout rates remain high and only 23%
of entering students complete primary education (Annex 1, T-4). With Bank
support, the MIE is expected to study the causes of high dropout and
repeater rates in Malawi. In other countries poor efficiency has been
shown to be a result of poor school quality (e.g., lack of textbooks,
high student teacher ratios, lack of trained teachers, lack of facilities
within walking distance). In addition, children of poor as well as
illiterate parents have been found to be more likely to drop out of primary
school. As enrollment rates increase, less able children enter the school
system and thus depress pass rates until 100% enrollment is reached.



-5-
2.07      Teachers.  While detailed research evidence is not available, the
most critical need for improved quality in Malawi is clearly the need for
additional trained teachers. The student teacher ratio has deteriorated
from 50:1 in 1971-72 to 65:1 in 1980-81, which is among the highest ratios
in the world. Only 63% of the 12,500 primary school teachers are qualified
and the the output of the five teacher training colleges is inadequate to
meet present needs even at a 65:1 student teacher ratio. Assuming growth
of the primary school system at 4.6% per year for at least the next ten
years and modest improvements in the student teacher ratio to 60:1, total
annual output should increase to at least 1,900 by 1990 (Annex 1, T-5).
The existing shortage of teachers has been made worse by the lack of
capacity in the MOE to provide large scale upgrading courses to untrained
teachers, and until recently, difficulties in attracting teacher trainees
because of the shortage of secondary school graduates.
2.08      At present there are three 540 place colleges located in the
cities of Blantyre, Lilongwe, and 21zuzu, one aided teacher training college
(St. Joseph's Teacher Training College) located in the Dedza district
(Central Region), enrolling 120 girls, and one aided college in Blantyre,
enrolling 120 students, most of whom are trained for education of the
handicapped. Output of these colleges was 773 in 1981 but is expected to
increase to 960 with full utilization of facilities. The colleges are
generally well managed. The majority of teachers are Malawians with
diploma level certificates.
2.09      The teacher training program in these institutions consists of
two years of academic and pedagogical training, including about six weeks
of supervised practice teaching in nearby primary schools. Two types of
certificates are awarded, the T-3 certificate, which is awarded to those
who enter the colleges after completing junior secondary school, and the
T-2 certificate, which is awarded to those who have completed senior
secondary school before attending the teacher training colleges. While T-2
students have a better academic background, they are more likely than T-3
students to leave the profession as other job opportunities arise.
However, overall students appear motivated to enter the teaching profession
despite low salaries and difficult working conditions. In 1980-81, 70% of
enrollment vas at the T-3 level. The curriculum in some subjects
replicates the regular upper secondary curriculum and could be improved.
Assistance from Unesco and the British Council is being provided to revise
the school curriculum so that it focuses more on the needs of primary
school children.
2.10      Over the past few years, about 100 untrained teachers per year
were upgraded in special short courses. With the establishment of the MIIE,
these courses will expand. The MIE is planning to concentrate its
activities on improving the skills of untrained teachers as well as
providing training to primary school headmasters and school supervisors.
To reach large numbers of teachers, the MIE will utilize the teacher
training colleges and staff during vacation periods. A grant from the EEC
(para. 2.05) will finance the program through 1987 and adequate technical
assistance will be provided from UNDP/Unesco and the British Council.



--6-
2.11      Phvsical Facilities.  In addition to the acute shortage of
teachers, the physical facilities of the primary education system are
inadequate for the implementation of the educational curriculum. Many
buildings are decaying and in danger of collapse, and most schools have
little or no furniture or equipment. While in the past construction of
school facilities has been left to the communities, under the Third
Education Project the Central Government is now supporting a program to
construct 1000 primary school classrooms. Under this program, the local
community provides fired bricks, sand, stones and unskilled labor. The
Development Division of the Office of the President and Cabinet, through
the district commissioners, provides supervision and skilled labor, and the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) provides materials and additional
supervision. Even when complete, total facilities provided under this
program will meet less than 20% of the needs for primary school
facilities. If the program is successful in providing facilities which are
economical in cost, the Government is expected to request further Bank
Group assistance for its continuation.
2.12      Textbooks.  The situation with regard to textbooks has improved
since 1978. Until that time, textbooks and teaching materials were
purchased by local authorities through student fees, which varied from
K2.00 to K6.50 depending on grade and whether the school was located in an
urban or rural area. The result of this policy was that basic textbooks in
language and mathematics were provided to only one-third to one-half of all
children and very little additional supplies were available. With Bank
Group assistance (Third Education Project), the Government is now providing
English, Chichewa, and mathematics textbooks, published with more durable
covers and binding, to all primary school children. The school fees
collected are now used for purchase of additional textbooks as well as for
furniture and equipment. In anticipaLtion of the end of IDA support for
this program by December, 1982, the Government has increased school fees to
ensure continued purchase of basic textbooks (para. 2.31). These fees
will have to be increased with inflation to ensure an adequate future
supply of textbooks.
Expansion of Secondary Education
2.13      After independence in 1962, enrollment in secondary education
increased rapidly from 3,100 to 13,400 in 1972. Since 1972, enrollment in
secondary education has grown at an average rate of only 3.7% per annum,
reaching 17,900 in 1980. This represents about 4% of the school age
population, and is among the lowest percentages in the world. Output of
secondary school graduates is inadequate to meet labor market needs (para.
1.08). Low enrollment in secondary education has also affected the entire
education system. At the primary level, almost half the enrollment in the
eighth grade consists of children repeating the year in order to get higher
scores on the Primary School Leaving Certificate (PSLC) and hopefully to
secure a place in secondary schools. The primary teacher training colleges
have had difficulty recruiting secondary school students 'or their courses
and higher education has been unable to expand as rapidly as planned.



-7-
2.14      The MOE has recognized the need for expansion of secondary
education to meet manpower needs and is proposing to increase enrollment to
28,000 by 1990. The Fourth Education Project (Credit No. 1123-MAI) is
providing funds for an additional 3,960 student places, or about 40% of the
1990 enrollment goals. However, the capital cost per student place for a
full boarding secondary school is about US$10,000, and an additional 6,000
student places would therefore cost about US$60 millon in 1982 dollars.
Before proceeding with this expansion, the Government is planning to
consider less costly means of expanding secondary education (para. 2.29).
The Government is also planning to expand the Malawi Correspondence
College, which provides a lower cost alternative to traditional secondary
education (para. 2.18).
2.15      The qualitative aspects of secondary education are in general
satisfactory or in the process of being improved. About 84% of entering
secondary students pass the Junior Certificate (JC) examination and 51% of
students who enter senior secondary schools pass the School Certificate
examination. The rates have remained relatively stable over the past ten
years.
2.16      The secondary school curriculum emphasizes language arts,
science, and mathematics. The introduction of technical subjects,
including metal work and wood work, into the curriculum has not proved
fully satisfactory because of high operational costs, lack of student
interest, and teacher shortages. As a result the MOE is not expanding
teaching of these subjects. In home economics, teacher supply, student
interest, and examination results have been satisfactory. Malawi's mixed
experience with a diversified curriculum is similar to that of a number of
other developing countries.
2.17      Over 90% of the 800 secondary school teachers are qualified,
holding either degrees or diplomas. However 200 of the qualified
teachers are expatriates. From 1973 to 1979 the output of secondary school
teachers from Chancellor College of the University of Malawi declined
because of neglect of the teacher training function by Chancellor College
authorities as well as student interest in higher paying jobs in the civil
service and in industry. Since 1978, at the initiative of the MOE,
Chancellor College has introduced accelerated training programs to qualify
primary school teachers to teach at the secondary level and to enable older
students who have temporarily stopped their schooling to obtain degrees as
science teachers. With Bank Group assistance, Chancellor College expects
to enroll 450 students in its secondary teacher training programs by 1985
and to produce about 125 teachers per year, which would be adequate to meet
needs (Annex 1, T-6).  Under the Fourth Education Project, the College is
annually reviewing its teacher training program. Based on the results of
these reviews over the next two years, the college may need to establish
selection criteria and regulations which encourage more students to choose
the teaching program.



-8-
2.18      The Malawi Correspondence Colleae (MCC).  The MCC was established
in 1965 and has grown to an impressive orgarization of over 100 staff,
broadcasting 15 hours of radio Programs per week, and provJding
correspondence materials and correcting tests for more than 8;000 students
per year (Annex 1, T-7). Mcre than 75.% of MCC students are enrolled at the
junior secondary level, 20% are enrolled in the senior secondary level, and
5% are in primary level and primary teacher certificate equivalency
programs.  The MCC secondary schoo:L program is undertaken in 72 centers and
18 "night" schools.  The centers provide full-time classroom accomodation
to secondary level students for up to six hours a day. The only entrance
requirement is to have a primary school leaving certificate and to pay a
fee of K30 for correspondence materials. M<ost classes take place in
makeshift premises, with virtually no equipment. The night schools are
located on the premises of regular secondary schools in which secondary
school teachers teach 1MCC students from about 3 to 6 P.M. in the
afternoon. Students in both centers and night schools prepare for regular
junior and senior secondary school examinations with the assistance of
detailed study materials) correspondence material, and supplemental radio
programs. Nearly all the 1MCC center teachers have only primary teaching
certificates but have been selected by local supervisors on the basis of
their skills and interest.
2.19      Enrollment in the M4CC at the junior secondary level of 6,400
students is one-third of the enrol:Lment of regular junior secondary
schools. In 1981, 10.9% of all MCC students taking the JC examination
passed six subjects (the minimum required to receive the Junior
Certificate) in one sitting. An additional 11.5% passed six subjects after
two or more sittings for the examination. The figure of 22.4% is low
compared with the pass rate of 85% among regular secondary school students
who took the JC examination. Howevier, all MCC students are "failures" who
are unable to enter regular secondary schools and who have found a second
chance through the MCC system; MCC teachers are generally not qualified for
secondary school teaching and MCC facilities are very poor. Given these
handicaps, the MCC pass rates are satisfactory and are better than most
correspondence programs in Africa. With MOE encouragement and improved
facilities, enrollment increased 35% from 1980 to 1981. This increase
shows that students recognize the 11CC as a viable alternative to formal
secondary education.
2.20      The cost per student place in the MCC (JC program) is about K56
per year, compared to K263 per year for regular secondary schools.  After
taking into account that 85% of students in regular secondary schools pass
the JC examination compared to 22% for MCC students, the cost per graduate
of the MCC is about K452 compared to K618 per graduate of regular secondary
schools. Therefore, both the cost per year and the cost per graduate of
the MCC are lower than the corresponding costs of regular secondary
schools.



-9-
2.21      Despite its relatively good showing, the MCC could improve its
efficiency significantly. MCC center teachers receive no special training
and many are unaware of the different pedagogy needed for correspondence
programs. With the exception of centers recently constructed under the
Third Education Project, most centers are located in inadequate buildings,
with no equipment, little furniture, and no books other than the
correspondence materials provided by the MCC. The existing MCC staff,
while dedicated and competent, requires in-service training in areas such
as graphic arts, radio programing, management, and evaluation. The MCC
employs only two subject specialists at present, and course materials are
not regularly revised. Headquarters facilities are inadequate and should
be expanded. In order to further improve its efficiency, the MCC is
considering phasing out its primary and teacher training programs and
increasing fees to about K50 to cover the full cost of materials.
Training of Middle and High Level Manpower
2.22      Five technical schools train skilled workers in areas such as
bricklaying, carpentry, electricity, and mechanics. These programs,
enrolling about 900 persons per year, are adequately staffed. With
assistance from the British Overseas Development Administration, they will
be expanded to keep pace with economic growth in the 1980's. The principal
commercial education institutions are the Polytechnic and a number of
private schools. To improve quality and expand output, the MOE is planning
to introduce commercial education to three technical schools.   With
assistance from the Canadian International Development Agency, the
Government is constructing a multi-purpose Natural Resources College with
expected output of 380 agricultural and other technicians per year, which
would be sufficient to meet manpower needs for agriculture, livestock, and
fisheries development. The Ministries of Natural Resources, Forestry and
Health have additional schools training specialized forestry, fisheries,
livestock, and health technicians.
2.23      After a period of little or no growth, enrollment in higher
education is expanding significantly to meet demonstrated manpower needs.
The Polytechnic, which trains engineers, technicians and business managers,
is increasing enrollment from 350 in 1978 to a planned 700 by 1985.
Chancellor College is expanding enrollment in arts and sciences and
secondary teacher training from 600 in 1978 to at least 1,050 by 1985,
and hopes to increase enrollment to 1,200, with emphasis on arts and
humanities, providing investment funds can be found. Output of secondary
school teachers is increasing to meet needs through 1990 (para. 2.17).
2.24      With regard to civil service training, in 1980 Mpemba Staff
Training College enrolled 500 civil servants in clerical, secretarial and
bookkeeping subjects. At higher levels, Chancellor College trained 30
students in public administration but had difficulty placing these students
in Government service. Chancellor College is now planning to cut back on
new enrollees and expand its in-service training programs. In 1979, the
Government proposed establishment of a new Institute of Public
Administration (IPA) in Lilongwe, which would be responsible for in-service



-10-
training of middle and higher level civil servants. A study identified
significant training needs and recommended that an IPA be established to
provide induction courses for recent entrants to the civil service,
in-service courses for those who had been employed for some time, and other
ad-hoc courses according to needs. Funds for design work for the IPA were
included in the Fourth Education Project. However, Government officials,
who have been concerned by its possible high recurrent costs, are no longer
considering construction of the IPA as a high priority. Given Malawi's
present economic difficulties, it is more appropriate to utilize existing
facilities, especially those at Chancellor College and Mpemba Staff
Training College, and to provide ad-hoc vacation time training courses.
2.25      Accounting Education.  As noted above (para. 1.07), the 1979
Manpower Survey showed that of 712 accountants and auditors employed in
Malawi, 408, or 57%, were expatriates and shortages of accountants are
expected to grow over the next decade. In recognition of these shortages,
the Malawi College of Accountancy (MCA) was established in 1979 with the
assistance of the ILO. The MCA is housed in temporary quarters in a
secondary school in Blantyre and in an office building in Lilongwe. Up to
now the MICA has not attracted well qualified students, many of whom have
failed the end of year examinations and dropped out.
2.26      With its transfer in 1981 to the MOE from the Ministry of Labor,
the MCA initiated action to improve its program through a revised
curriculum, improved facilities, and efforts to attract better qualified
students. The- MCA is now staffed by a Malawian acting principal, four
specialists provided under an ILO/UNDP program, and two Malawian staff
members. The MCA's proposed new curriculum reduces its part time study
courses and provides for courses of at least one semester of full time
study alternating with periods of on--the-job training with participating
firms and institutions. The proposal is well adapted to the Malawian
environment and is expected to gain widespread business support.
Eventually the program will enroll about 215 students and annually graduate
approximately 110 "accounting technicians", who would complete one year
courses of study, and about 30 certified public accountants who would
alternate full time study with employment over a three to five year period.
2.27      A prerequisite for implementation of its new programs is the
establishment of permanent facilities as well as residential quarters for
staff and full-time students (para 4.15). The proposed permanent location
of the MCA would be on the grounds of the Malawi Polytechnic in Malawi,
which, among other subjects, provides accountancy courses to its business
students. This location would ensure coordination of programs, sharing of
staff, and common use of library and computer facilities.
Financing of Education
2.28      Total public education expenditures in Malawi in 1981-1982
represent about 3.5% of GDP. This percentage is lower than most
sub-Saharan African countries and reflects the Government's policy of
placing relatively greater emphasis on sectors of the economy such as
agriculture and infrastructure. In 1981-1982, the MOE's recurrent budget



-11-
was 11.2% of the Government's overall budget (Annex 1, T-8). This
percentage is significantly lower than the figure of 17% in 1970-71 and is
lower than that of most African countries. In 1981-82, capital
expenditures on education increased significantly from the previous year
and amounted to 11.9% of the capital budget. Most of this increase is
related to Bank Group financed education projects.
2.29      The recurrent unit cost for primary education is a very low
K13.60 per student. The 65:1 primary student teacher ratio, which is among
the highest in the world, accounts for the low unit cost. The Government
realizes that inadequate funds are allocated to primary education and
intends to increase its allocation significantly over the next five years.
In 1981-82, the recurrent unit cost to the Government for secondary
education was K235, an amount which is in line with the costs of boarding
secondary schools in other African countries. The Government is now
considering a number of options to control secondary education costs. One
possibility, that of reducing the percentage of boarding places, would
lower both capital and recurrent costs. Up to now MOE's experience in this
area has not been successful since the "day" secondary schools draw from
too wide a catchment area to permit local commuting. The MOE is now
planning to study the feasibility of establishing smaller secondary schools
to draw from neighboring catchment areas (para. 4.18). The MOE is also
expected to reconsider its policy, originally designed to foster national
unity, of assigning many students to schools outside their home district,
since this policy has the effect of increasing needs for boarding places.
2.30      In 1981-82, the unit cost for higher education was K3,716.  While
this amount is no higher than other African countries, there is
considerable scope for savings. A study of the cost-efficiency of
post-primary education financed under the Fourth Education Project has
provided information on a number of areas for possible cost reduction at
the University of Malawi, including (a) increases in student teacher ratios
in some departments; (b) elimination of some departments with very low
enrollments; (c) elimination of allowances of K12 per month provided to all
students; and (d) better control of transport and travel costs, which
presently account for 10% of the University's total budget. Government
officials have been seriously concerned about the costs of higher education
and are currently reviewing the report.
2.31      Cost Recovery.  Unlike most African countries, Malawi charges
fees for primary, secondary, and correspondence education. At the primary
level, fees were increased for the 1982-83 school year and are now K5.00 in
urban areas and K3.00 in rural areas for grades 1 through 5, and K7.50 in
urban areas and K4.00 in rural areas for grades 6 through 8. The fees are
used principally for purchase of textbooks, equipment and consumable
materials and are equivalent to about 19% of expenditure on primary
education. At the secondary level the Government charges K25 for
"tuition", and recently increased its boarding fees to K60 in "boarding"
schools and K75 in "day" schools (most of which are now boarding).
Secondary school fees are now equivalent to about 25% of expenditures on
secondary education. The Government charges K30 for enrollment in the
Malawi Correspondence College (MCC), which is equivalent to about 24% of



-12-
expenditure on the MCC. At the higher education level, as noted above, no
fees are charged and students receive a monthly stipend of K12. Similarly
primary teacher training students receive a monthly stipend of K6.
2.32      Overall Malawi recovers a large percentage of costs in primary,
secondary and correspondence education. Given Malawi's present difficult
financial situation, fees should be increased in accordance with
inflation and should at least remain at the present percentage of total
costs. The Government is committed in principle to this policy. In
addition, the Government is considering increasing fees in the "boarding"
secondary schools, as well as increasing fees for the MCC to cover the
costs of providing educational materials, and is also reviewing its policy
of providing stipends to higher education students.
2.33      Annex 1, T-8 provides estimates of enrollment and costs of
education through 1990. Enrollment growth through 1990 is projected on the
basis of current Government policies. Unit costs of primary education are
projected to increase at 1% p.a. through 1985-86 and at 4% p.a. to 1990-91,
on the assumption that the Government will train and hire additional
primary school teachers. Unit costs of higher education are projected to
decrease to K3,500 by 1985-86, through the adoption of various cost-saving
measures described above, and thereafter to increase at 2% p.a. Unit costs
of other educational levels are projected to remain constant in real terms
through 1985-86 and thereafter to increase by 2% p.a. On the basis of
these assumptions the education sector's share of the recurrent budget
would rise from 11.2% in 1981-82 to 13.8% in 1985-86 and 16.6% in 1990-91.
This level of expenditure is the minimum required to provide for increases
in enrollment and to maintain the quality of the system and at the same
time is not expected to greatly tax Malawi's financial resources.
Recommended cost saving and cost-recovery measures are modest since, with
the exception of the University of Malawi, the education system is operated
relatively efficiently, and, again, except for higher education, Malawi
recovers a large percentage of its education costs. The EPD has prepared
estimates of recurrent expenditures through 1986-87 which are roughly in
line with the above projections but which require continued discussion and
review (para. 4.21). Overall Government officials are well aware of needs
to increase significantly both enrollments and expenditures while
simultaneously controlling unit costs and are expected to continue their
close scrutiny of the education budget.
Government Policies and Plans
2.34      As a result of a deliberate Government policy of giving higher
priority to agriculture and infrastructure, the development of the
education system has lagged behind that of the other sectors and of most
other Sub-Saharan African countries. In the last five years, however, the
Government's policy has changed. Today, over 10% of the Government?s
capital budget is allocated to education and the highest authorities are
aware of needs for major expansion of secondary and higher education.
Nonetheless the Government's serious financial constraints have led to
deterioration of student teacher ratios at the primary level, as well as



-13-
restraints on expansion of the education system. The Government is now
committed to a major program to expand primary teacher training colleges
and thus end deterioration at the primary level. Other major Government
priorities are to expand secondary and correspondence education, as well as
agricultural, commercial, technical, and accountancy training, in
accordance with manpower needs, and to strengthen management of education
through curriculum development and improved educational planning. The
Government has become acutely aware of the need to control costs while
ensuring adequate growth of the education system. The actions taken over
the last year in cost control and cost recovery are major steps in the
right direction. Overall the Government's policy and plans in education
are appropriate. However, they must now be more fully articulated in the
National Education Plan currently under preparation, in order to ensure
full committment to a set of realistic goals for the 1983-1990 period.
III. BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE, KNOWLEDGE, AND LENDING STRATEGY
Past Experience and Lessons Learned
3.01      The Bank Group has financed four education projects in Malawi and
is now the major lender to Malawi of funds to improve education and
training. The First Education Project (Credit 102-MAI, signed in 1967)
provided US$6.3 million equivalent to expand secondary education to meet
manpower needs, to introduce technical subjects in secondary schools, and
to establish a new primary teacher training college in Lilongwe. A Project
Performance Audit (No. 2914) was completed in March, 1980. The Second
Education Project (Credit 590-MAI, signed in 1975) provided US$11.6
million equivalent to establish a new primary teacher training college in
Mzuzu, to expand secondary education, principally through provision of
additional places for girls, and to establish 23 model primary schools
which would also serve as rural adult centers. A project completion report
dated September 21, 1982 has been distributed.
3.02      Evaluation of these two completed projects indicates, inter alia,
good success in assisting in the establishment of the two new primary
teacher training colleges. These two institutions are well managed, and
they are adequately meeting their educational goals of training primary
school teachers.   At the secondary level, implementation of the First and
Second Projects has resulted in enrollment increases as planned and the
secondary schools are also well managed. The introduction of technical
subjects, especially wood and metal work, into these schools has not been
fully satisfactory because of high recurrent costs, lack of specialized
teachers, and lack of student interest. Because of these problems, the MOE
is no longer introducing technical subjects into general secondary schools
and is concentrating on expanding the specialized technical schools. In
primary education, the experience of the Second Education Project has shown
that it is difficult to utilize primary schools as adult learning centers,
and these schools would best be used solely for the primary level. In
addition, it was found that a management system and supervision of local
building teams were needed before communities could be expected to assist
in replicating the model schools through self-help construction. Overall



-14-
the Government regularly allocates funds for maintenance of Government
institutions, and project schools have been found to be adequately
maintained.
3.03      The Third Education Project (Credit 910-MAI and EEC Credit
12-MAI, signed in 1979 and totalling IJS$22.0 million) expands and broadens
the Bank Group's involvement in educational development. It is designed to
improve (a) primary education, through self-help construction of 1000
primary school classrooms and provision of textbooks to primary school
children; (b) educational management, through establishment of the Malawi
Institute of Education (MIE), provision of vehicles for the school
inspectorate, and support for various educational studies and evaluation;
and (c) training of essential middle 'Level manpower, through expansion of
the MCC and of the Chancellor College secondary teacher training program,
as well as through modest expansion of agricultural, commercial, and
general secondary education. The MIE has begun initial operations and
facilities for Chancellor College and the MCC are nearly complete.
Management and organization problems, particularly at the local level,
continue to slow implementation of the self-help primary school
construction program. In addition, because of late arrival of technical
assistance, the program of studies ancL evaluation is just beginning.
Overall implementation of this project is proceeding satisfactorily and it
is expected to be completed by the original Closing Date of June 30, 1984.
3.04      At the time of appraisal of the Third Education Project, the
Government was not committed to secondary school expansion on the grounds
that additional secondary school teachers needed to be trained and that
there was a possibility of unemployment of secondary school leavers. By
the time of appraisal of the Fourth Education Project, it was clear that
secondary school expansion was the highest priority. Accordingly, the
Fourth Education Project (Credit 1123-MAI, signed May, 1981 for US$41.0
million equivalent) provides for 3,960 new secondary student places and for
further expansion of Chancellor College's secondary teacher training
program. The project also includes pre-investment studies for a new IPA
and a new primary teacher training college, as well as funds to prepare a
National Education Plan. A delay of about one year in obtaining the
necessary technical assistance for preparation of the National Education
Plan was experienced. Otherwise the implementation of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Bank Group Sector Knowledge
3.05      The Bank Group's knowledge of Malawi's education sector has
increased considerably in the last seven years, not only through project
work but also through economic and sector analysis. In 1978 Bank Group
staff completed an in-depth "Education Sector Survey" (Report No.
1781-MAI). In 1980, Bank Group staff completed "An Analysis of Malawi's
1979 Manpower Survey", which summarizes labor market shortages and projects
labor force needs and supply to 1990, and "The Evaluation of Human Capital
in Malawi" (Staff Working Paper No. 420), which measures inputs to primary
education, achievement of primary students, and economic returns to
secondary education. In 1981 Bank staff completed another education sector
memorandum (Report No. 367-MAI, dated October 28, 1981), summarizing main
issues in the sector. Bank Group consultants have also recently reviewed
needs for training of civil servants and accountants and for improving the MCC.



-15-
3.06      Overall the Bank Group's knowledge of primary, secondary, and
higher education, and financing and management of the education system is
good. Bank Group knowledge of specialized training programs in the areas
of civil service, accountancy, and agricultural training is also good. In
order to strengthen further its sector knowledge, the Bank Group, as a part
of its FY 1983 sector work program, is undertaking a study of the financing
and efficiency of the education system, which will synthesize numerous
ongoing and recently completed studies, and expects to study project
related training in FY 1985.
Bank Group Lending Strategy
3.07      With the signing of the Third and Fourth Education Project
Development Credit Agreements in 1979 and 1981, the Bank Group became the
major lender for improvements of general primary and secondary education.
These are the areas where, because of past involvement and experience
gained regarding physical and institutional development, the Bank Group has
a comparative advantage over other agencies that have specialized in the
provision of financial and technical support to manpower training
institutions. The Bank Group's large scale sector involvement is now
accompanied by the studies and analysis required to make the system more
cost-effective and appropriate to Malawi's economic and social
development. This focus should be continued.
3.08      The most critical issue in education at this time is the lack of
trained primary school teachers. The highest priority, therefore, is to
end the deterioration in the primary student teacher ratio through the
establishment of over 1,500 new teacher training places. There are also
clearcut needs for additional primary school classrooms; however, further
assistance should await the results of the evaluation of the self-help
construction program in the Third Education Project. Malawi also needs
desperately to expand the output of its secondary school system to meet
basic manpower needs, and the 3,960 places to be provided under the Fourth
Education Project will meet less than 40% of needs to 1990 even for a
modest 5% yearly increase in enrollment. Future support for general
secondary education is therefore essential. However, the policy of full
boarding and staff housing requires an in-depth review in the light of the
Government's fiscal constraints. Additional support for general secondary
education should be held in abeyance pending completion of this review.
3.09      As noted above (para. 3.03), the Third Education Project
supported improvement of MCC headquarters. A detailed review of the MCC
shows that, while it is already a viable alternative to secondary
education, assistance is required for establishment of additional centers,
for training and technical assistance, and for further expansion of
headquarters facilities.  This support would be expected to improve the
MCC's efficiency and therefore enable more students to pass the JC
examination at a lower capital and recurrent cost than that of assistance
to boarding secondary schools.



-16-
3.10      Because of the involvement of other agencies, the Bank expects to
provide only minimum support for programs in areas such as agriculture,
business and vocational training (para. 3.07).  However, needs for
accountants are well documented, the prerequisites for a good accountancy
program have now been established, and no agency other than UNDP/ILO, for a
limited time, is offering assistance. The Bank Group should therefore
provide support for the MCA and should also supplement ILO's technical
assistance.
3.11      Under the Third and Fourth Education Projects, Chancellor College
received support permitting it to expand enrollment from 600 in 1978 to an
expected 1,050 by 1985. The University has requested support for an
additional 150 students in the arts and humanities. While further
expansion can be justified by overa:ll manpower needs, it is unclear whether
the University's plan to establish an arts and humanities complex is
appropriate, and further assistance should await careful evaluation of this
proposal. Although establishment of a new IPA does not appear to be
justified, the Bank Group expects to continue to review needs for
management training and will consider possible future support.
3.12      After some difficulties in the early and mid-seventies, the Bank
Group's dialogue with the Government has improved to the point where
regular consultation has been established on the improvement of the
education system. Bank Group staff have built on this relationship through
an- active program of collaboration, assistance, and sector work. This
relationship is expected to continue, especially in the areas of
educational planning, finance, teacher training, and school construction,
through close supervision as well as a significant sector work program.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01    The proposed project, which is designed to meet Malawi's most
pressing needs for trained manpower, has four main objectives: (a) to
improve the quality of primary education; (b) to expand the output of
secondary level institutions as a means of providing essential middle level
manpower; (c) to increase the numbers of trained accountants and accounting
technicians; and (d) to strengthen management of the education, training,
and auditing systems.



-17-
4.02      The objectives of the project would be addressed as follows:
Level and                                                    Principal
Objective                        Item                     Beneficiaries
Primary Education
Improved quality    Establishment of three new          780 new teachers to be
and efficiency        primary teacher training          trained per year in two
colleges, expansion of one        year programs; each year
existing college, and train-   these new graduates
ing of teacher trainers           would teach an addition-
al 46,800 primary school
students.
Correspondence Education
Provision of          Facilities for 2,960 student   total of 8,200 students
middle level          places at MCC centers, train-  enrolled in the MCC
manpower              ing of staff, expansion of
headquarters, and provision
of technical assistance
Secondary Education
Provision of          Establishment of one new          960 students per year
middle level          secondary school (480 places)
manpower              and renovation and expansion
of an existing secondary
school (480 places)
Accountancy
Education
Provision of          Establishment of a new col-    215 students per year
accountants and       lege of accountancy (215
accounting techni-  places), technical assist-
cians                 ance, and training of ac-
countancy teachers
Studies, Evaluation and Auditing
Improved manage-    Studies, technical assistance  education system
ment and auditing   and fellowships to the MOE          and public administra-
planning unit, the PIU, and    tion system
the Auditor General's office



-18-
Primary Teacher Training
4.03      Under the proposed project three new primary teacher training
colleges would be established and one existing teacher training college
would be expanded. After full operalion, these colleges would enroll an
additional 1,560 students, which wou:Ld increase teacher training capacity
by 80%, and would produce about 780 trained teachers per year in two year
courses of study. By 1988-89, a total of 1,740 primary school teachers per
year would be trained by existing and new institutions. The increase in
output would enable Malawi to meet needs for new teachers, assuming
continued growth of primary school enrollment and estimated annual teacher
wastage of 3% per year, but would be inadequate to reduce the student
teacher ratio below about 60:1 (Annex 1, T-5). Shortfalls in teacher supply
would be met through accelerated courses organized by the MIE during
vacation periods or through correspondence programs.
4.04      The three new teacher training colleges are located in provincial
towns and would principally serve the regions in which they are located.
The proposed new Zomba Teacher Training College (540 places) would
principally serve the southern region. It would be located adjacent to the
MIE in the town of Domasi. The proposed Kasungu Teacher Training College
(540 places) would principally serve the central region, which is the most
rapidly growing area of the country. The proposed new Karonga Teacher
Training College (300 places) would principally serve the relatively
underpopulated extreme northern region. Despite higher capital and
recurrent costs, the Government places a very high priority on development
of the Karonga area, which has received assistance from three Bank Group
rural development projects, as well as assistance from the Federal Republic
of Germany for urban renewal, port construction, and hospital
construction. A 400 place primary school, to be used as a demonstration
school, would be constructed adjacent to each of the three colleges. With
minor modifications, facilities to be provided would be similar to those
provided to Mzuzu Teacher Training College under the Second Education
Project. In addition, St Joseph's Girls Teacher Training College would be
expanded from 120 to 300 enrollment, and a neighboring demonstration
primary school would be renovated. The college, located in the town of
Bembeke in the Dedza district (Central Region), principally serves the
Central and Southern Regions. At present the Central Government pays
teacher salaries but the local diocese administers the college and finances
other recurrent costs.
4.05      The colleges are located in provincial towns which have little or
no available housing. Therefore full boarding is required to carry out
educational objectives successfully. Staff housing would also be required
for all of the teaching staff as well as about 40% of the school's support
staff, for a total of 129 housing units. This number is deemed essential
since local housing is not available. Staff housing provided would be
modest in space and costs in comparison to standard Government provisions.



-19-
4.06       Furniture and equipment to be provided would be modest and
include only items essential for the carrying out of the colleges'
educational 'rograms. Satisfactory preliminary lists have been prepared
based on experience under the Second Education Project. Specialized
equipment would include a language laboratory, a video-tape recorder for
micro-teaching, and a bus to be used especially for transporting students
to primary schools where they would practice teach.
4.07      At full operation in 1988/89 the four colleges would require 100
new teachers and three new principals, as well as support staff. Teachers
would have at least diploma level certification (i.e. three years
post-secondary education) and principals would have masters degrees in
educational administration. Chancellor College and the MIE have the
teaching staff required to implement an in-country training program and the
British Council has been providing overseas scholarships in educational
administration.  A detailed plan acceptable to the Bank Group for the
training of the staff of the four project institutions is to be provided by
September 30, 1983 (para. 8.01 a). The plan would include the staffing,
timetable, and estimated costs. The broad outline of the plan has been
reviewed and found satisfactory. The institutional, financial and
personnel arrangements for such training are already in place, and it is
expected that Chancellor College and the MIE will collaborate in the
program.  It is expected that most of the training costs would be met from
the Government's regular budget and through British Government support.
About K150,000 is included in the project to ensure implementation of the
program.
Correspondence Education
4.08      The project would provide support to strengthen and expand the
activities of the MCC, especially in preparing students for the JC
examination. It is expected that, as a result of this assistance, the
number of students passing the JC examination would more than double over
the present 600. Support would include provision for improved physical
facilities for existing MCC centers and for headquarters as well as
training and technical assistance for MCC staff.
4.09      The proposed project includes 25 new MCC centers.  Twenty-four
of these centers would serve students who are already studying in makeshift
and inadequate facilities. Twelve of the 25 centers would enroll 160
students each in double streams. Establishment of these larger centers
would be more economic in both capital and recurrent costs and would permit
more teacher specialization. In addition, 13 one-stream centers enrolling
80 students each would also be constructed. On completion, enrollment in
the centers would be 2,960 on the basis of 40 students per classroom.
Combined with assistance under the Third Education Project, a total of 53
new facilities out of the 78 existing centers would be constructed.
4.10     The MCC headquarters in Blantyre are inadequate to serve present
as well as future staff. To provide for the planned increases in staff,
the project would include additional offices, as well as meeting and



-20-
and seminar rooms.  Since space is inadequate on the grounds of MCC
headquarters for expansion, the MOE will adapt underutilized facilities of
adjacent institutions. In order to ensure adequate headquarters staffing
in Blantyre, five modest staff houses would be provided. In addition, one
house would be constructed in Lilongwe and one in Mzuzu for the staff of
the MCC's regional offices, which have yet to open because of the lack of
local housing. The project would also provide for additional printing
equipment, a video tape recorder, radios, tape recorders, science kits and
transport for MCC headquarters staff in Blantyre.
4.11      In order to strengthen the quality of MCC staff, the project
would provide for: (a) in-country training of local M4CC teachers to upgrade
their academic, pedagogical, and student guidance skills; (b) nine
man-years of overseas training of graphic artists, printshop operators and
management staff; (c) short-term in-country training of headquarters staff;
and (d) participation in international conferences of correspondence
institutions. In addition, provisions would be included for the
continuation of the assistance provided by a specialist in evaluation
methodology for two years beyond the termination of the present UNDP
financed contract which will end in January 1984.
4.12      Present assistance will be fully utilized only if the MCC fills
its vacancies and increases its staff. At a minimum the MCC requires
appointment of a deputy principal and an additional five subject
specialists. By not later than December 31, 1983 the MCC would appoint
additional suitably qualified staff as noted above (para. 8.01 b).
Secondary Education
4.13      Livingstonia Secondary School, located in the northern region on
an historic mission site, is in a serious state of disrepair, with leaking
roofs, buckling walls, and major termite damage. The school enrolls 240
regular secondary school students and will have to close if repairs are not
made soon. Under the project the school would be expanded to enroll 480.
Dormitories would be renovated and expanded, all academic areas re-roofed,
a new kitchen constructed, staff houses repaired, and their number
increased. Additional furniture and equipment would be provided to bring
the school up to an acceptable standard.
4.14      Under the project a new secondary school would be established in
rural Lilongwe, which is the fastest growing district in the country.
Rural Lilongwe has 600,000 inhabitants, equivalent to 10% of Malawi's
population, yet has only about 640 secondary school places available to
district students. The new school, with 480 student places, would be
similar to those being constructed under the Fourth Education Project. In
addition to regular classrooms, facilities would include two science
laboratories, a library, a home economics room and a dining hall to
accomodate 240 per sitting. As in the Fourth Education Project, boarding
places would be provided to all children and housing to 75% of all teaching
staff.



-21-
Accountancy Education
4.15      The project would support establishment of permanent facilities
for the MCA on the grounds of the Malawi Polytechnic in Blantyre. At its
full operation the MCA would enroll 215 students and have an annual output
of 110 accounting technicians and 30 certified public accountants, which
would be adequate to meet needs through the 1990's for Malawian accountants
and to begin replacement of expatriates. Specifically, the new MCA would
have twelve classrooms and seminar rooms, a computer room, staff offices,
and dormitory space for 125 students. Furniture and equipment would
include audio-visual aids, mini-computers, and library books. Housing for
nine staff members would be provided to ensure adequate staffing at the
institution.
4.16      The MCA would coordinate its activities carefully with the
Polytechnic. It would utilize Polytechnic staff in the areas of business
management, economics and statistics, and provide its own staff to teach
accountancy in Polytechnic courses. Its staff and students would utilize
the Polytechnic cafeteria and library. All concerned government officials
are in full agreement in principle on this arrangement, and the Government
has provided a draft agreement, acceptable to the Bank Group, for the
sharing of staff and facilities of the two institutions.
4.17      UNDP/ILO is now providing four ILO specialists and one UN
volunteer to the MCA. Three experts will be provided in 1983-1984 and the
contract will terminate in 1985. The project would therefore provide funds
for eight man-years of services of expatriate accounting teachers,
beginning in 1983-84, to ensure continuation of this assistance. The
project would also provide 20 man-years of fellowships for the training of
qualified Malawians in overseas institutions in one and two year graduate
courses. Students would be bonded to return to the MCA as teachers. By
not later than September 30, 1983 the MCA would prepare a detailed plan
satisfactory to the Bank for training of Malawian accountancy teachers
(para. 8.01 c).
Studies, Evaluation, and Auditing
4.18      The project would include provision to continue the program of
studies and evaluation initiated under the Third Education Project. The
purpose of the studies program would be to (a) evaluate ongoing educational
development projects, (b) assess the feasibility of new policies and
projects, and (c) strengthen Malawi's institutional capacity for
educational research. Current ongoing efforts include studies on the use
and effect of primary school textbooks as well as tracer studies of
graduates of secondary and higher level institutions supported under the
Third and Fourth Education Projects. The project would provide support for
two additional studies. The first would evaluate the cost-effectiveness of
the primary school self-help construction program currently being supported
under the Third Education Project. The second would determine to what
extent secondary school boarding facilities could be eliminated or reduced



--2 2-
through new admission policies as well as location of schools drawing from
nearby catchment areas.  Terms of reference, costs, and timing of studies
would be subject to Bank Group approval. Funds would also be provided for
additional studies to be agreed upon by the Bank and the Government. To
strengthen MOE capacities in this area and in educational planning, the
project would also provide ten man-years of fellowships in educational
planning and research.
4.19      The project would also support technical assistance and training
to strengthen the Auditor General's office, which is responsible for
auditing of all government accounts, including preparation of audits of
Bank financed projects, and which is poorly staffed (para. 1.07).
Specifically, the project would provide funds for three man-years of an
expatriate auditing expert who would advise the Auditor General and would
provide regular in-service training to his staff. This expert would be in
post by December 31, 1983 (para. 8.01 d). In addition, six man-years of
fellowship training would be provided for newly recruited staff to obtain
auditing qualifications in overseas institutions.
Female Participation in the Project
4.20      Girls make up about 40% of enrollment in primary education and
30% of enrollment in secondary education. The MOE encourages girls' part-
ticipation in secondary education ancl they are accepted in secondary
schools with slightly lower scores than boys. They are expected to make up
one-third of enrollment in project secondary schools. Based on historical
patterns, girls are also expected to make up one third of the enrollment of
the new primary teacher training colleges. To provide for possible
increases in girls' participation, some dormitories would be sited to
permit conversion from boy's to girl's usage if necessary. The existing
teacher training college to be expancled (St. Josephs) would remain an all
girls institution in accordance with the wishes of the local diocese.
Overall the total number of new teacher training places reserved for girls
would be 640, or 41% of the 1,560 places to be provided. The MCC's female
enrollment is estimated at about one--third, and this ratio is expected to
remain stable. At present, only 5% of MCA enrollment is female. Dormitory
facilities at the Polytechnic would be available to girls who wish to
enroll.
Monitoring of Education Financing
4.21      As a continuation of reviews initiated under the Fourth Education
Project, and in order to ensure the adequate financing of project
institutions and of the education system as whole, the Government, jointly
with the Bank Group, would annually review the education budget in terms of
its adequacy to carry out the Government's long-term educational objectives
(para. 8.01 e). This review would cover, in particular, Government action
to continue and revise cost-recovery programs in primary and secondary
education (para. 2.31) as well as action to reduce or control costs in
higher education.



-23-
Summary of Technical Assistance and Training
4.22      The project would include 21 man-years of specialist services
consisting of : (a) two man-years in evaluation methodology to the MCC
(para. 4.11); (b) eight man-years of accountancy teachers to the MCA
(para. 4.17); (c) five man-years of technical assistance to the PIU for a
financial controller (para. 6.03); (d) three man-years of technical
assistance for studies and evaluation (para. 4.18); and (e) three man-years
of technical assistance to the office of the Auditor General (para. 4.19).
Terms and conditions of employment and qualifications of specialists would
be subject to Bank Group review and approval. In addition to the above,
DANIDA will provide about 18 man-years of technical assistance to the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (para. 6.03).
4.23      Fellowships to be provided under the project are as follows: (a)
twenty man-years for accountancy teachers for the MCA (para. 4.17); (b)
nine man-years for graphics, printing, evaluation, and management for the
MCC (para. 4.11); (c) ten man-years to strengthen the MOE's planning and
research capacity (para. 4.18); (d) six man-years to strengthen the Auditor
General's office (para. 4.19); and (e) eight man-years to train a Malawian
architect and a quantity surveyor for the PIU (para. 6.03). Curriculum
vitae and courses of study of fellowship recipients, including proposed
training institutions, would be subject to Bank Group review. If the
Government is able to utilize bilateral funds for technical assistance and
fellowships, resulting savings (which could be as high as K1.5 million)
would be subject to cancellation and/or be used for project related
activities, such as additional MCC centers or secondary school expansion,
acceptable to the Bank Group.
4.24      In country training to be provided under the project would
include (a) training of primary teacher-trainers (para. 4.07); and (b)
training of MCC center and headquarters staff (para. 4.11). Proposed
training programs would also be subject to Bank Group review and approval.
Consultant services to the PIU for architects, engineers, supervision of
construction, and auditing would total about 17 man-years (paras. 6.05 and
6.11).



--24-
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$42.0
million equivalent, including customs duties and taxes estimated at US$2.0
million equivalent. The estimated costs and foreign exchange components
given by category in Annexes 1, T-9, T-10, and T-11 are summarized below:
MK (million)             US$ (million)   % of
Base
Items              Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Cost
1. Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment, and Vehicles
a) Primary Teacher             9.67   8.16  17.83   8.95   7.56  16.51  54%
Training Colleges
b) Malawi Correspondence       1.85   1.65   3.50   1.71   1.53   3.24  10%
College
c) Secondary Schools           3.05   2.51   5.56   2.83   2.31   5.14  17%
d) Malawi College              0.83   0.83   1.66   0.77   0.77   1.54   5%
of Accountancy
Sub-Total                  15.40  13.15  28.55  14.26  12.17  26.43  86%
2.  Arch./Engr./Auditing Serv.   0.50   0.76   1.26   0.46   0.70   1.16   4%
3.  Tech. Asst./Studies            0.18,  1.57   1.75   0.16   1.46   1.62   5%
4.  Training and Fellowships       0.21   0.95   1.16   0.20   0.88   1.08   4%
5.  Project Administration         0.24   0.31   0.55   0.22   0.29   0.51   1%
Baseline Costs (1-5)       16.53  16.74  33.27  15.30  15.50  30.80 100%
6.  Contingencies
a) Physical (9%)               1.58   1.41   2.99   1.46   1.31   2.77
b) Price Increase (27%)        5.67   3.43   9.10   5.25   3.18   8.43
Sub-Total                   7.25   4.84  12.09   6.71   4.49  11.20
Total Project Cost (1-6)    23.78  21.58  45.36  22.01  19.99  42.00
of which taxes         2.16    -       2.16   2.00    -      2.00



-25-
5.02      Costs for civil works, furniture and equipment are based, inter
alia, on results of recent competitive bidding and contract awards in the
Fourth Education Project. Civil works costs for secondary education and
MCC facilities are based on a simplified design benefitting from experience
in construction of secondary schools and MCC centers. The accommodation
schedules on which the cost estimates are based are functional and
appropriate for the project's educational objectives. The average base
construction costs per square meter (January 1983 prices) for secondary
schools and MCC centers are US$275 and US$180 respectively, and for primary
teacher training colleges (PTTC's) US$270. This compares with unit costs
in other Eastern Africa countries as follows: Kenya US$330-340 (1981);
Lesotho US$331 (1981); and Comoros Islands US$350 (1981). The unit cost
per student place for academic/communal facilities is estimated at US$2,200
for secondary schools, US$700 for MCC centers, and US$3,000 for PTTC's.
This compares with an average Bank-wide median cost of US$2,225 (1981) for
secondary schools and primary teacher training colleges. Provision of
staff housing is essential for attracting qualified teachers to rural
areas. Teachers are required to pay 15% of their salary for staff
housing. The Government is currently reviewing its overall policy of
provision of housing to civil servants and the results of its review could
be to reduce the number and size of houses to be provided in education.
The estimated civil works costs reflect the impact of substantial increases
in the prices of fuel, imported construction materials and local taxes over
the past years, as well as difficulties experienced with supply of
materials imported through Mozambique ports upon which Malawi is highly
dependent.
5.03      The technical assistance component (para. 4.22) consists of 21
man-years of specialists' services. Based on past experience, these
expatriate specialists are expected to be recruited through Unesco, ILO and
bilateral donor agencies or directly by the Government. The cost per
man-month has been estimated at about US$6,700 for those recruited through
the UN system and at US$5,000 for those recruited through bilateral
agencies. The cost is estimated at US$3,000 for expatriates recruited
locally. Professional services, equivalent to about 17 man-years of
architectural, engineering, and auditing services (para. 6.05), are
estimated at an average rate of US$5,000 per man-month,including salary,
overhead and fees.
5.04      Customs Duties and Taxes.  In line with Malawian policies and
practices, items imported specially for the proposed project would be
exempted from customs duties and taxes. Certain items are expected to be
purchased locally on the open market and reimbursement percentages have
been calculated to exclude duties and taxes estimated at US$2.0 million
equivalent on such items as imported building materials under construction
contracts and local purchases of furniture and equipment.
5.05      Contingency Allowances.  For physical increases, 10% has been
added to the base costs of civil works and professional services and 5% to
all other categories. Estimated price increases, from the base cost date
of January 1983, have been applied in accordance with the implementation
schedule (Annex 1, C-4) at the following annual rates:



1983    1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Foreign               8.0%   7.5%   7.0%    6.0%   6.0%   6.0%
Local (Civil Works) 18.0%  17.0%  16.0%   15.0%  14.0%  13.0%
Local (Other)        12.0%  11.0%  10.0%   10.0%   9.0%   9.0%
The estimated price increases have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and
have been found acceptable.
5.06      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component,
estimated at US$20.0 million equivaletnt or 50% of the total project cost
net of taxes, has been calculated as follows:  (a) civil works and project
administration, 42%; (b) furniture and professional services, 60%; (c)
equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and overseas fellowship training,
90%; and (d) local training, 25%. The foreign exchange component takes
into account that the bulk of the equipment and a large part of the
building materials would be imported.
Financial Plan
5.07      The total estimated project cost of US$42.0 million equivalent
would be financed with an IDA Credit of SDR 30.9 million (US$34.0 million
equivalent), which would cover 85% of total project costs net of taxes, or
100% of the foreign exchange component and 64% of local costs. The
financing plan would be as follows:
US$ (million) Equivalent
Government       IDA      Total
1.  Civil Works                           4.74        18.60      23.34
2.  Furniture                             0.21         1.18        1.39
3.  Equipment and Vehicles                0.16         1.70        1.86
4.  Arch./Engr. and Auditing Services;  0.23           0.93        1.16
5.  Technical Assistance and Studies    0.12           1.50        1.62
6.  Training Program                      0.10         0.98        1.08
7.  Project Administration                0.07         0.28        0.35
8.  Unallocated                           2.37         8.83       11.20
Total                      8.00        34.00       42.00
of which taxes             2.00           -         2.00
5.08      Recurrent and Counterpart Expenditures.  In any year during
project implementation, the maximum Government capital contribution
including taxes is not expected to exceed US$2.4 million equivalent. The
bulk of these funds will be required in FY1985-87. Recurrent costs
generated by the project are estimated at about US$1.2 million equivalent
per annum or about 3.2% of the Government's projected recurrent budget for
education by 1988/89 when the project is expected to be fully operational
(paras. 2.28 - 2.32 and Annex 1, T-8). These amounts are consistent with
Government plans and expectations.



-27-
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND REPORTING
Implementation
6.01      Implementation Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a
period of about five and a half years, including six months for completion
of payments and withdrawals (Annex 1, C-4). The project is expected to be
completed by March 31, 1988, with a proposed Closing Date of September 30,
1988. The implementation schedule is based on the satisfactory record of
project implementation under the Third and Fourth Education Projects and
takes into consideration that the Government may wish to implement the
civil works component of the project at a modest pace to insure
availability of counterpart funds even if economic conditions deteriorate.
6.02      Administration.  The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is an
administrative and architectural unit responsible to the MOE's Planning
Unit and established for the implementation of four previous education
projects assisted by the Bank Group. The PIU has an excellent
implementation record. Recently it expanded its activities to implement an
investment program financed by the African Development Bank, and it is
expected to take on additional similar responsibilities as the MOE's unit
for school construction and for implementation of externally funded
projects.
6.03      The PIU is presently staffed with about 20 professionals and with
adequate supporting staff, including technical assistance from DANIDA, the
Commonwealth Fund for Development and Japan. Financing of the contracts of
three architects and one engineer provided by DANIDA for a total of 18
man-years is expected to continue at least through December 1987. To
strengthen the PIU's accounting procedures, the project would provide for
five man-years of the services of a financial controller. The PIU's
Malawian professional staff includes a director, two junior accountants,
one assistant architect, and two procurement officers. The PIU expects to
hire two additional draftsmen who would be recent graduates from the Malawi
Polytechnic. A Malawian recently took over the post of chief procurement
officer from a retiring expatriate. Another Malawian recently began
architectural training and funds would be provided in the project to train
a second architect as well as a quantity surveyor. As this staff returns
from training, DANIDA assistance would be gradually phased out.
Qualifications and experience of the project manager, senior architect,
senior procurement officer, and financial controller would be acceptable to
the Bank Group.
6.04      Operational expenditures for project administration are included,
starting only in January 1986, since such costs are being financed under
the Fourth Education Project to December 31, 1985. The project does not
include financial assistance for the local salaries of PIU personnel, since
these would come under the MOE recurrent budget beginning in January 1986.



-28-
6.05      Professional Services (AlE).  Architectural and engineering
services required for the project are limited since standardized designs
have already been prepared by the PlU as part of a general standardization
of educational facilities for secondary schools and the MCC centers. The
designs of the PTTC's, to be prepared by local consultants, would be based
on the design of the Mzuzu PTTC financed under the Second Education
Project. All draft designs have been reviewed and found acceptable to the
Bank Group. The design and supervision of the MCA would be the
responsibility of the Ministry of Workcs without any cost to the project.
The Fourth Education Project provides funds under the pre-investment
category for design work for the Zomba PTTC, which would be undertaken by
consultants. Under the Fifth Education Project, consultant services,
equivalent to 17 man-years, would be provided for the design of the three
additional PTTC's, for supervision of all PTTC's, and for supporting the
PIU with quantity surveying, electrical engineering, and supervisory
services for the secondary schools and the MCC centers (para. 5.03).
6.06      Site Selection.  Satifactory sites for two of the three new
PTTC's and for the MCA have been selected and are owned by the Government.
The Government has selected sites, subject to Bank review in the field,
for the new secondary school in Lilongwe, for the Kasungu PTTC, and for the
25 MCC centers (para. 8.02 b). Adequate land is expected to be available
and provided free of charge to the project.
6.07      Status of Preparation.   Standardized designs for all project
institutions except the MCA have already been prepared. The Government has
selected the consultant architects for the PTTC's, and the PIU is expected
to be well advanced on modifications of the standardized designs for
project facilities. Satisfactory preLiminary furniture and equipment lists
for all project institutions have been reviewed by Bank Group staff.
Modified designs for the PTTC's will be prepared by July 1983 and tendering
is expected to begin at that time.
Procurement
6.08      Contracts for civil works, .furniture and equipment would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement. These
contracts would total about US$32.0 million equivalent including
contingencies. Exempted from ICB wou:Ld be: (a) civil works contracts
estimated to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent each (estimated at US$3.5
million equivalent including contingencies); and (b) furniture and
equipment contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each (estimated
at US$0.8 million equivalent including contingencies). Such contracts
would be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. Contracts for
goods and equipment estimated to cost less than US$10,000 equivalent, but
not exceeding US$25,000 equivalent in total, would be procured by local
shopping.



-29-
6.09      Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of furniture and equipment indicating proposed grouping and cost
estimates would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk
procurement. Prior review of tender evaluation documents by the Bank Group
would not be required for civil works contracts costing less than
US$300,000 equivalent each and for furniture and equipment contracts
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each. Supervision missions would
review and approve sample documents to ensure proper handling.
6.10      When ICB is used, domestic manufacturers of furniture and
equipment would be allowed a preference of 15% of the existing applicable
rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of
competing foreign suppliers, and qualified domestic civil works contractors
would be allowed a preference of 7.5% of the bid prices of competing
foreign contractors.
6.11      Consultants would be selected in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Locally established consulting firms who have undertaken
similar assignments for, and have a good working relationship with the
Government, are expected to be selected. All consultants financed under
the project would be selected under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank Group.
Disbursements
6.12      Disbursements (Annex 1, T-12) would be on the basis of: (a) 80%
of total expenditures for civil works and operational expenditures for
project administration; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory, or 80% of local expenditures for locally procured
furniture, equipment, vehicles and transportation of furniture and
equipment to school sites; and (c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of
local expenditures for professional services, technical assistance,
fellowships, and training. Disbursements for operational expenditures
under project administration, local transportation expenses of furniture
and equipment to schools sites, and local training would be made against
statements of expenditure, documentation for which would not be submitted
for review but would be retained by the Government for inspection by the
Bank Group during project supervision.  Experience with previous Bank
Group-assisted education projects has demonstrated that the PIU has
satisfactory institutional capacity to use the statement of expenditure
procedures. All other disbursements would be fully documented. The
disbursement schedule is based on the average for all Bank Group financed
projects in Malawi.
Reporting and Auditing
6.13      Following procedures established under the previous education
projects, semi-annual reports on implementation progress would be submitted
to the Bank for review within two months after the periods ending March 31



--30-
and September 30 of each year.  No later than three months after the
Project Closing Date, the PIU, with assistance from other MOE and
Government departments, would provide the Bank with a completion report
evaluating the execution, initial operations, costs and benefits of the
proposed project and the performance of the Government and the Bank
including lessons learned during proiect implementation. The report would
be based on agreed upon ways and means of measuring project objectives as
described in Annex 2.
6.14      The PIU would establish and maintain separate accounts for all
expenditures incurred under the project. The records would be maintained
adequately to reflect, in accordance with appropriate accounting
procedures, its operation and financial condition. The Government would
provide annual audits satisfactory to the Bank Group for all expenditures
financed under the project, with particular emphasis on operational
expenditures (project administration), expenses for local transportation of
furniture and equipment to school sites, and local training. Audit reports
would be provided to the Bank Group within six months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year. Since the Auditor General's office is
understaffed, funds would be provided under the project for audit services
to be furnished by private firms.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      At its completion, the project would result in the training of
780 new primary teachers per year who would teach an average of 46,800
primary school children. Improved teacher quality would result in improved
student learning and it is estimated that student completion rates would
increase from the present 23% to about 37% in the 1990's (Annex 1, T-4).
Improved quality of primary education would have an effect on agricultural
productivity, and would be an essential base for further education and
training to meet more specialized manpower needs.
7.02      Through project support the MCC can be expected to at least
double the number of successful candidates for the JC examination, which
was 600 in 1981. This increase would be achieved at lower capital and
recurrent costs than regular secondary schools and would help the
Government to provide the basic educational skills needed for the training
of middle level manpower. Renovation of Livingstonia Secondary School
would ensure annual output of 120 secondary school graduates at a lower
cost than construction of a new institution, while establishment of a new
secondary school in rural Lilongwe would ensure output of 120 new secondary
school graduates per year from this area. Strengthening of the MCA would
lead to output of 30 trained accountants and 110 technicians per year,
which would meet needs through the 1990's for future Malawian accountants.
Support for educational planning, studies, evaluation, and auditing would
help to ensure improved management of the educational system and the civil
service.



-31-
Risks
7.03      The main project risk arises from the recurrent cost implications
of the expected growth of the education system (paras. 2.33 and 5.08).
Project supervision missions would carefully monitor the financing of the
education system, and, as under the Fourth Education Project, the
Government and the Bank would jointly undertake annual reviews of the
financing of education (paras. 3.06 and 4.21).
7.04      Other risks are minimal.  Recruitment of students for the new
teacher training colleges, which could be a problem, should not be
difficult because of the increased numbers of students successfully
graduating from both regular secondary schools and the MCC. The MCC will
be able to manage its expanded enrollment and improve the pass rates of its
students only if new staff are recruited; and assurances to that effect
have been provided. The MCA requires adequate technical assistance and
fellowships to implement its program of studies, and project funds are
provided to that effect.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      The Government has agreed to: (a) prepare a staff training plan
for the primary teacher training colleges by September 30, 1983 (para.
4.07); (b) appoint a deputy principal and an additional five subject
specialists to the MCC by December 31, 1983 (para. 4.12); (c) prepare a
staff training plan for the MCA by September 30, 1983 (para. 4.17); (d)
appoint a specialist acceptable to the Bank to the Auditor General's office
by December 31, 1983 (para. 4.19); and (e) annually review, with the Bank
Group, the education budget in terms of its adequacy to carry out the
Government's educational objectives (para. 4.21).
8.02      Subject to the above assurances, the project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 30.9 million (US$34.0 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Malawi on standard IDA terms.



- 32-                                  ANNEX 1
MALA1_1                                 Table T-1
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EMPLOYINT IN SELiCTED RIGHER LEVEL OCCUPATIONS, 1'S79
Total             Non-         Percentage
Occupational Category          Employment        Malawian       Non-Malawian
1.  Professional/ Technical
and related workers          21,716           2,859             13.2
Of which;
(a) Chemists, Physicists,
Scientists and Engineers
not elsewhere specified.        681              53               7.8
(b) Architects,
Engineers, Town Planners                        534
and related Technicians       1,386                             38.5
(c) Surveyors &
Engineering Technicians       1,2.57            349             27.8
(d) Doctors/Dentists and
related Assistants              579             189             32.6
(e) Nurses, Midwives
& related Health
Assistants                      941             249             26.5
(f)  Accountants &
Auditors                        7:L2            408             57.3
2.  Administrative and
Managerial Workers            4,127           1,772             42.9
3.  Clerical and related
Workers                      23,706           3,028             12.8
Of which;
(a) Stenographers &
Typists                       2,1105            648             30.8
(b)  Bookkeepers & Cashiers 3,443               702             20.4
4.  Managers (Wholesale &
Retail)                         225             120              53.3
5.  Farm Managers &
Supervisors                   3,314             669             20.2
6.  Production. Supervisors &
Foremen                       3,645            iU1               18.1
TOTAL               56,733           9_J0_             16.1
Source: "An Analysis of Malawi's 1979 Manpower Survey"
Date:   November 24, 1980.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
TabLe T-2
MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
FORECAST OF HIGH AND MIDDLE LEVEL MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS
1979-1990
(in thousands)
Year
1979    1980    1985    1990
1. Posts requiring post-secondary
degree or equivalent.
Total number of positions                   29.9    31.5    36.6   45.8
of which
a)  Stock at beginning of period          23.5    24.9    25.9   31.9
b)  Unfilled vacancies from                6.4      5.0      5.2    2.9
previous period
c)  Requirement due to attrition            -       0.4      1.8    1.9
d)  Requirement due to growth               -       1.2      3.7    8.6
Total new positions                          6.4      6.6    10.7   13.4
Output of institutions                       1.4      1.4      7.8    8.5
Unfilled vacancies at end of period          5.0      5.2      2.9    4.9
2. Post requiring senior secondary (MCE)
level or equivalent
Total number of positions                   37.6    39.8    47.9   58.6
of which
a)  Stock at beginning of period          33.5    34.9    35.6   40.4
b)  Unfilled vacancies from                4.1      2.7      3.4    3.3
previous period
c)  Requirement due to attrition            -      0.8      4.0    4.1
d)  Requirement due to growth               -       1.4      4.9   10.8
Total new positions                           4.1      4.9    12.3   18.2
Output of institutions                        1.4      1.5      9.0   12.9
Unfilled vacancies at end of period           2.7      3.4      3.3    5.3
3. Posts requiring junior secondary (JC)
level or equivalent
Total number of positions                     52.5    54.4    64.0   78.5
of which
a)  Stock at beginning of period          35.6    37.4    38.3   48.0
b)  Unfilled vacancies from                6.9      5.1    15.2   11.6
previous period
c)  Requirement due to attrition            -       0.9      4.3    4.4
d)  Requirement due to growth               -      11.0      6.2   14.5
Total new positions                             6.9    17.0    25.7   30.5
Notes:
1.  Stock is computed as follows:  St = St-l - dt-1 i nt-1 where dt-1 =
number leaving the labor market due to attrition and rt_l = output of
institutions.
2. The assumed rate for attrition (death and retirement) is 1.5% p.a. for
university graduates and 2.5% per year for others.
3. Projection assumes economic growth rate of 3% to 1985 and 4% to 1990
and no improvement in productivity.
Source:  ((An Analysis of Malawi's 1979 Manpower Studys.
Date: December 3, 1982



- 34 -
MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
COMPARATIVE: EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                           Tab'e T-3
Pac'e 1 f1 2
DEtEMBER 9, 1982
CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURE                                      COMPLETION            RECURRtENT
ON EDUCATION  EDUCATION       ADULT    PRIMARY RATE FOR                UNIT COST  PROGRESSION SECONDARY               HIGHER
GNP PER              AS PERCENT    RECURRENT        LITERACY ENROLL. PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATE FROM   ENROLL.   SECONDARY ESOLL.
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL EFPENDITURES  NATE           RATIO   SCHOOL       STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  ILATIO        STUDENTS  RATIO
YEAR MILLS. (USS)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    ALLOCATED TO:   (2)    (NET)   CYCLE              PER      AS PERCENT SECONDARY   (NET)         PER        (GOSS)
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE   FRI  SEC  HI   (1976)    (1)            (2)      TEACHER  GNP/CAPITA       (2)         (X)    TECACHER      (2)
(1)     (2)        (3)           (4)            (5)          (6)       (7)      (8)        (9)        (10)         (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES
AUSTRALIA          80    [4.6   8,870       6.3'        14.6        ---  --- ---    1008        103'     100         21        ---           99           73       13       20.90
CANADA             81    23.7   9,630'    7.7'          18.58y      308? 34-? 23'?   99         106'     100         21        19.9-?       IW0          92'       IS       22.60'
G.KRIANY F.R.      79    61.4  12,220       4.6          998                                    8        1 ---    --_                       1OO-         94       _---      12.10
NETHERLANDS        79    14.1  11,084       7.9          5.1        20   35   25       99?      96        95         18        15.3          99          82        13       12.40
NEW ZEALAND        80      3.2   6,081      5.58        13.4        37   31   28       99       100      100         24        11.6         100          82        15       25.80"-
SWEDEN             79      8.3  12,863      9.0         18.2        31   10   10       99g       99'     100         18N       19.9         100          79'       108Y    36.508Y
EASTERN AFRICA
SOTSWANA           80      0.8b    720b    6.3P         19.3        48   28   15       35b       94       74         32        22.0          33*8        20        18        1.50
BURUNDI            81      4.2     235      2.8b-       19.0        42   35   23       25        28'      35         37        22.6          12           3x       17        1.00
COMOROS            80      0.4b    260      6.5"        25.4        40   28b  14       ---       99'      65         45        16.0          58          21X       30        1.40
DJIO3UTI           81      0.3     460      5.4         10.8        60   40   ...    10         32        ---        41        --            60           8        19        0.50
ETHIOPIA           80    31.0b    130b    2.2P          11.1'       52   32   14'    15          38       ---        59        18.0          ---          9        41'       5.10
KENYA              79    15.3      390      5.9V        18.ob       71   15   14       45       92        74         40        15.8          41        . 19        28        1.00
L[ESUTHO           80      1.3     410P    4.3P         21.0        51   24   25       52        64       61         49         4.0          64          17        21        0.90
MADAGASCAR         77      8.5      330     4.5"        24.0        53   28   19       50       94b6      33         55b        8.0          38          14        23        3.10b6
MALAWI             81      6.b    200       3.5         11.4        38   14   25    27b          62       23         65         5.8          12           4        21        0.40
MAURITIUS          80      0.gb  1,080b    6.0          11.5        39   40    7       80       87        78         22b       17.1          79          45Y       21        0.40
EWANDA             80      5.0b    2Oob    3.2          21.3        62   17   11       23b       571      62         40        14.0           6           4'       13        0.40
SEYCHELLES         78    65.0b  1,580b    5.0           12.0        34'  33'  13'    ---         ---       ---        ---      ---            ---         ---      ---      ---
SOMALIA            78      3.8      185'    2.0"        11.0        55   10   21       50b       26bY      ---       27b       20.4          53b          4b4      16b       1.00
SUDAN              80    20.0b   478b       3.0         --          66   39   ...    32          51"      68         34         1.4          44          13        16       ...
SWAZILAND          78      0.5     650      7.1"        12.2        36   33   18       65b      80by      498        35by       7.7          66'         33bxy    208        2.00
TANZANIA           80    18.5      260      5.9         17.7        47   10   16       79b      98b       87         21        11.0          1gb          3        20        O.Olb
UGANDA             80    12.6b    30ob    ---           16.1"       23b  37b  27b    48          54'      61         34        ---           17           5        23        0.60
ZAIRE              78    27.5      2108    6.0"         22.0        49   26   25       15       84Y       44         42'       --            41          13'       27        1.10bY
ZAMBIA             80      5.7b    566b    4.5P         11.1        48   23   22       44b       95       80         48        12.9          19          16        22        1.50
ZIMBABWE           81      7.7b    700b    5.1          19.5        62   32    6       44b      90        55         39        20.0          85          15        23        0.50
WESTERN AFRICA
SENIN              79      3.4b    320b    6.53         35.0        43   21    5    [ib         42        30         46        14.0          30          11        43        I.WY
CAMEROON           78      8.2      590     2.9Y        16.0Y       33' 43'  20'   ---          74y       45'        55Y       11.8'         208         14Y       26        1.30Y
-.A.R.             79      2.2     280      3.8'- 20.6'-                                       ---        ---                  ---           --- __  -_                      0.708!
CHAD               76      4.4      120     2.4b6Y      21.7b       --7  ---  ---   15           25Y      ---        77        ---           ---          3xy      21        0.20Y
CONGO              78      1.5     670      g.o0'y      27.7'Y      ---  ---  ---  ___          ---       ---        56bY      --            30          --        43b7      4.00&!
CABON              77      0.6   3,420      3.7bY        8.4Y       ---  ---  ---   ---         --- _      --        46by                                          [9- 67- ---  lgby  28 0Y
GAMBIA             77      0.6     220      3.3"'        6.5b       46   25'   6'   job         40by      908        27by      44.7-         40          12b61     17        _ _
GHANA              76    11.3       400     4.0Y        15.5b       ---  ---  ---   ---          7Ib.y    ---        27by      ---           ---         36b.y    21         ---
GUINEA             79      5.3      290P    4.6'P       ---         25'  29'  28'   20          34        36         38        20.0-P        85          16        29        7.00D
IVORY COAST        81      8.2b  1,070b   10.0          45.0        33   46   13    30b         60        86         43        26.0          47          15-3Y    26         1.90Y!
LIBERIA            80      1.9     520      4.6         19.6        43   23   24    30          52        32         35        20.0          76          22        20        2.90
MALI               77      6.7b    180b    4.2b         21.7b       45a  37'  18'   10         27b$y    ---          43by      ---           50s           6'      ---       o.goby
MAURITANIA         78      I.6b    320b    5.5          16.9        33   43   25    17b          32       60         44        52.0          30           9        25        0.37
NIGER              78      5.2      300     4.3'y       16.6!Y    52'  43'   5'    8             17       56a        41'       38.7-         40           2        24b       0.20Y
NIGERIA            77    82.6      910      4.1Y         9.6        ---  ---  ---   ---         ---       ---        ---       ---           --          10'Y      25        0.17Y
SENEGAL            77      5.5     450      5.0         23.0        46   34   20    10           34b6y    ---        43by      ---           20          10        21        2.20by
SIERRA LEOhE       77      3.4     250      4.ob        16.0b       ---  --- -_    15b          37'       --         35        25.Ob         84          15'       22        0.60by
TDGO               78      2.4      400     6.5q3       26.5q       30'  28'  21'   18           74       40         54by      38.0          52          32b6y    4gb        1.60by
UPPER VOLTA        78      5.6      180     3.08"       19.3'Y      31   16   32    --           15by     23         53by      52.5?         19           3b6y    25         0.027
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
ARGENTINA          78    27.3   2,210       2.7         10.9        43'  31'  18'   93b         89        52         17        --            87          31         8       23.00
BAHAMAS            79      0.2   2,770      5.7         19.1        36   36   11    93b         99        97         24        ---           97          75        19       --
BARBADOS           78      0.2   2,680      8.3"Y       22.1'       43'  31'  16'   ggb        [OOY       99'        27Y       19.9Y         99'         78Y       20Y !     --
BOLIVIA            80      5.4     550      4.1'Y       30.3'       ---  ---  ---   63          74Y       ---        20Y       ---           ---         15Y       ---      12.60!
BRAZIL             79   116.5   1,770       3.8          6.2        51   --   14    76          73'y      --         23y        4,.5b        61'         15-Y      14'Y    12.62b
CHILE              76    10.9   1,890       3.2by       13.0b       ---  ---  --[ [9- llgb7y    ---                  34by 67      -          ---         55b.y    20by    l1.9otby
COLOMBIA           80    26.7b  1,180b    3.3           25.0        35   20   20   85[          78        36         32         6.6          --          47        20       10.026Y
COSTA RICA         80      2.2b .1,810b    8.4          31.1        40   27   33    90           93       77         33         5.5          77          40        27       14.00
CUBA               78      9.8     ---      8.0         11.0        ---  ---   --   96          112bcy    98         [8by      --            98          7[b.y    15        19.02b6
DOMINICAN REP.    78       5.3   1,030      2.1Y        13.9Y !          ---  ---   67       ---        ---        ---       ---            ---         ---      ---      ---
ECUADOR            80      8.4b  1,110      6.OP        36.7        45   31   16    81         105        ---        36        12.6          86          47        16       29.00
EL SALVADOR        77      4.4      640     3.4by       23.1by      64    8   27    62           82brY    32         39        ---           41          26b.y    27by       7.9Qb
GUATEMALA          78      6.8   1,010      1.7'Y       12.6b 6        ---  ---   --           69bry    ---        35by      --            69          15b3y    igby       5.50Y
GUYANA             76      0.8      630     8. [by      13.8by      ---  ---  ---   --           9 ggb9 y    ---     32by      ---           --- _59by    ---                3.00bY
HAITI              80      5.0b    230      3.4w         7.9'Y      65    9    6    23b          50       20         41        19.0          62'          4'       27        O.W8
HONDURAS           78      3.6      520     3.5by       14.3bY      62a  15'  19'   60          g9b6y    308         41by      12.8'         689         21'Y      19        8.00Y
JAMAICA            80      2.1   1,110      6.5         13.7        37   43   20    90           98       98         40         2.3          95          81        22        8.00
MEXICO             80    65.5   1,880       4.7         17.08       46   39   15    92           98       53         44         9.5          86          56        17       10.30
NICARAGUA          78      2.6b   610b      3.0bk       14.0b       ---  --- --    gob          85b"      24         37b       ---           ---         26b*      30b      ---
PANAMA             78      1.8b  1,550b    5.5b3y       21.8by      42'  13'  13    82b          95by     ---        25by      11.6          85'         50by      27by    20.40by
PARAGUAY           79      3.0   1,140      1.4"        14.2        42   17   20    84          83        32         28         3.1E         76          22        12        0.70
PERU               80    16.6   1,000       3.6         14.3        53   15   19    80          83        56         39         9.8          89          39        22       14.406
TRINIDAD 6 TOB.   77       1.1   3,910      4.8bY        8.8bY      48   32   20    95          98        91         30        10.5?         49          62        24       ---
[RUGUAY            78      2.9   2,500      2.5          9.4b       ---  ---  ---  94           105bw      ---       24b       ---           ---         64b4      ---      17.808Y
VENEZUELA          78    14.4   3,440       5.1Y        18.9b ---  ---  --   82               106b1      ---        28        ---           ---         35b6      17       21.10Y



- 35 
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                               Tsgle 2-3
Pace 2 ,f 2
DECEEBER 9, 1982
CENTRAL                          1_
GOVERNMIENTI
EYXPEND ITU RE                                    COltPLET ION          RUC Ult
ON EDUCATION  EDUCATION        ADULT    PRIMARY LATE FOR                UNIT COST  PROGRESSION SECONDARY                NIlCHR
GNP PER               AS PERCENT    RECURRENT        LETERACY ENROLL. PRIMARY       PRIMARY  PRIMARE    RATE FROM    ENIOLL.   SECOrDARY C     IWLL.
SASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL EXPENDITURES  RATE            RATIO   SCHOOL        STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  IATIO          STUDINTS  RATIO
YEAR MILLS. (US1)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    ALLOCATED TO:   (X)    (NET)   CYCLE                PER       AS PERCIrT SECONDARY   (NIT)         PER        (CG30*)
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE   PRI  SEC  NI   (1976)    (X)              (X)      TEACER  GDIP/CAPITA        (1)         (X)    rrEAaER       ()
_  (1)       (2)  1    (3)            (4)           (S)           (6)       (7)       (a)        (9)        (IO)         (11)         (12)  1 (13)    (14)
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFPC
CHINA               79   981.8      260      3.3          6.6         29   34   27       66        93        64         27         8.0          83           47        19        2.80
INDONESIA          81   142.9       370      3.0          9.1-i      66   39   ---    32b         94x       68          34         1.4          44           23'       16        2.00'
KOREA              82    39.3b  1,636b    7.7w           20.8        34   34   31       96        99        98          43        19.0          96           64       38        21.10
MALAYSIA           80    14.2b  1,460b    5.2            22.0         39   32   13      60b       96X        94         28        -             S4           65        27        3.70
PAPUA N.G.          79     2.9      760      5.4"        16.4    ---  ---  ---    ---             58'      73          31         1.1          --           64b6      23      __
PHILIPPINES        79    48.3b    690b    2.8"           14.0        64   36**----    75b         84        65          31         7.1          89           55       36       21.0Q
SINGAPORE          50      2.4   4,420       2.7          6.7         39   40   16      83         92       82          31         8.8          96           55        22        8.03
SOLOMON ISL.       S0      0.2      460      4.2P"       10.0'       41   34   20                 60         so         26        --            35           18        ---     __
THAILAND            80    47,3b    723b    3.4           20.9         59   15   13      86b        96        ---        17         9.3          59           58        22        4.00
SOUTH ASIA
BANGLADESH          79    92.3b      90      1.1P        10.1'Y       51   17   20      22b       63Y       ---         53         5.6          --           14        23        1.43
INDIA              77   659.6       210      2.9Y         9.9"y ---  ---  --    36               79g       ---         41        ---           ---         28x       ---       8.30'Y
NEPAL              80    14.3b    140b    2.4             9.9         27   18   36       19        88'       30         38        __            64           14x       2zo       2.0C#7
PAKISTAN            79    79.7      270      2.0"Y        5.1Y        39   26   27       24        56'       80*        48         6.5          51          20X        17       6.00
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
AFGHANISTAN         77    15.5      --       1.7          3.7        47   19   15        12        31by     69          37b        -            62            8        2ZbY      1.00Y
ALGERIA             79    18.3   1,770       3.8        12.3         34-  26'  21A    35         83Y       45'         37         7.0?         553          293      26         3.707
EGYPT              81    43,0b    589b    3.1"'           4.5        31a  35'  26-    44          64'       80'         34         9.8'         83'         43        19       15.00'
GREECE              76     9.3   4,140       2.6"        10.6b        37   26   21      ---        97by     ---         29b        6.2?         ---          70'      276y      17.8067
IRAN               79    36.9       ---      5.7'7       14.1'Y      ---  ---  ---    50         101k        ---        32'        ---          -           44,       246        4.90
IRAQ               79    12.6   2,710        4.3'Y        6.9'Y      ---  ---  ---    ---        1OY       ---         28         ---          ---         43y'       2Y       9.3067
IRELAND            81      3,4b  4,480       6.3-Y       11.8-Y      ---  --- ,-        98        93        94          29         __           98          81        14       11.00
JORDAN              79     2.2   1,200       4.3"         7.2         19   44   18       70b       97'       85         32         7.2          94          44'        20       14.00
LEBANON            79      2.3      ---      __          18.6"9y ---  ---  ---    ---             96x       ---         19                      -           46'       -        27.60Y
MOROCCO             80    19.5      740      6.3"'       17.53       36   44   20        28       56-Y       35         39         19.7         40          25'       21        4.50
OMAN                79     0.9   3,530       3.7"Y'        4.9'  -                            453Y       -          23*        --            -            7x       9       -
PORTUGAL            77     9.8b  2 10Ub    4.0           15.4        41   21   15       70        92Y       60          19         ---          75          30Y       23b      10.607
ROMANIA             78    22.1   2,100       3,9by        6.2y        ---  ---  --    98         106bx      -_          23b        -            98          84bx      226      10.6061
SPAIN               76    37.0   4,920       2.1Y        16.8Y       ---3'  9                            ---         29-                     ---         67b6      __       24.10bT
SYRIA               78     8.6   1,170       4.4P        10.3        39   25   26       58        87by      80          35b        -            68          41h7      21b      12W60
TUNISIA             79     6.4   1,130       7.0P        19.0        42   39   18       62b      100'       No          39b        12.8         30          30'       30        6.00
TURKEY              79     4.3   1,380       3.66-Y      18.6         ---  ---  --      60       1053        -        <300,        ---          -           41'       27         7.07'?
YEMEN A.R.          80     6.8      420      5.0P"       12.0        94    7    7       21b       37         12'         3         67.0         85            3       20        1.10
YEMEN P.D.R.        s0     1.9      424      6.0         10.5        63   14    8       40b       65         53         24         22.4         81          22        16        2.50
SYMBOLS:                                                            FOOTNOTES:
--   DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                                 A - DATUM PRIOIR TO RASE YEAR
...  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE                                      S - DATUM MORE RECENT TRAN BASE YEAR
?  DATUM QUESTIONABLE                                               N - CURRENT PRICES
*  INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS                                      P - CDP
*  COMBINED WITH PRIMARY                                            Q - INCLUDES FOREIGN AID
*    COMBINED WITH HIGHER                                              R - CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ONLY
- MINISTRY OP EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
T - MOE AND STATE GOVENRNENT ONLY
W - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
Y - UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCES:
Columns I s-d 2:  World Sank Atlas or IBRD missions.
Colusno 3 to 14:  IBRD misIon., Governoect sources and/or Unesco Statistical Yearbook.
Comparative Education Dota  are useful io the evaluation of various education ayate_  and analysis of relative stages of educational deelpopnt bate     n-rits
countries.  However, on the basin of the present data, cross-n-tional comparison should be approached with great caution.  DNts presented in the abs.. table hes
been collected largely by Bank missions from fovernaeet sources; the rem-inder are staff estimates or data from Unesco.  Efforts have been  ade to staardisa
definitions and, vithin linits, to check the accuracy of the data. Nevertheless, such data are still imprfsot In several respects and te BSek is nrkiqg to
improve thee progrensively on the occasion of ito operstional work.  In the use of then data, the following qnalifieatisns should be kept in mind:
(I) 'Education" as defined in the table inciudes all edocation and training, both formal and son-formal.
(2)  "Prisary  education refers to education at the firNt level and "secondsry" education refers to a11 education at the secondary levl regardless of typ
(e.g., general, technical, agricoltural).
(3)   Literacy raten  (col. 6) are often obtained from  country censuses.  In eany cou.tries they are only approximations and it is doubtful thet amy omifmrm
definition of literate" has been followed consistently.
(4) "Public expenditure in education (colb. 4 and 5) refern to all capital and recurrent expenditures devoted to education by public and qusi-public
agencies.
(5)   EnrolLment ratiosn  (coln. 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and are the percentage of eligible children enrolled full-tim in the appropriate school,
public and private by level. They are often subject to a wide margin of error in the developing countries owing to esriatisos in the ccuracy of basic
data (i.e., age-npecific population and enrollmeetn).  Esrollzest figures frequently are higher than the number of students  ctually in school.  Ovir-ad
students whose inclusion is indicated by footnotes also c.n inflate the ratios.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table T-4
MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS AND EFFICIENCY, 1980-1990
Year and          Enrollments           % Promoted to  % Dropping  % Repeating
Grade       Total          Repeaters    Next Grade         Out         during
1980-81___                              ______________   _____________  Following   Year
1980-81
Grade 1      234,800          44,700        51.5           29.3            19.2
Grade 2      144,400          24,300        71.8            9.5            18.7
Grade 3      109,800          16,100        66.8           17.6            15.6
Grade 4       79,100           9,200        75.0           13.4            11.6
Grade 5       61,100            1,800       85.4           11.8             2.8
Grade 6       62,100           7,300        73.0           14.0            13.0
Grade 7       47,900           7,000        44.2            8.6            47.2
Grade 8       70,700          30,500
Total    809,900         141,100
% of entering cohort who complete grade 8  =   22.9
Number of school years required to produce one eight grade graduate    16.2
1990-91 (projected) 1/
Grade 1      331,900          49,600          60             25              15
Grade 2      223,300          33,000          75             10              15
Grade 3      187,100          26,900          75             10              15
Grade 4      146,800          14,100          80             10              10
Grade 5      112,600           2,200          90              8               2
Grade 6      104,700          10,100          80             10              10
Grade 7       89,100          11,600          85              1              14
Grade 8      100,100          30,000          65              5              30
Total   1,295,600        177,500
% of entering cohort who complete grade 8  =  36.6
Number of school years required to produce one eighth grade graduate  =  12.7
1/ Projection assumes enrollment of 100% of six year olds in grade one and modest
improvements in promotion rates based on additional trained teachers, initiation of
upgrading programs by MIE, and implementation of administrative procedures to reduce
excessive repetition in grade 8.
Source: MOE and Bank staff estimates
Date: August 24, 1982.



MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS ANI) TEACHER NEEDS 1980-90
Year   Enrollment   Student/  Teachers Wastage and New Teachers  Output of Teacher                Trained    Untrained
Teacher   Required Promotions  Needed for          Teacher  Deficit 1/ Teachers in Teachers in
Ratio                   3%        Next Year    Training                   Education   Education
Colleges  ___             System       System
1980-81      809948      64.6:1     12540         376          824             773        51            7898        4642
1981-82      844200        65:1     12988         390          957             900        57            8434        4554
1982-83      881100        65:1     13555         407         1012             920        92            9081        4474
1983-84      920400        65:1     14160         425         1096             940       156            9728        4432
1984-85      964000        65:1      14831        445         1194             950       244           10376        4455
1985-86    1012700         65:1     15580         467         1527             960       567           11014        4566
1986-87     1065000        64:1      16640        499         1627            1050       577           11644        4996
1987-88    1119400         63:1     17768         533         1731            1590       141           12345        5423
1988-89    1175900         62:1     18966         569         1842            1740       102           13565        5401
1989-90    1234600         61:1     20239         607         1961            1740       221           14898        5341
1990-91    1295600         60:1    21593          648                         1740                     16191        5402
Assumptions: Enrollment growth based on modest improvements in efficiency through 1990. Wastage and promotions based
on MOE estimates.  Output of teacher training colleges based on full enrollments in existing institutions and in new
institutions to he constructed under Fifth Education Project.
1/  Number of untrained teaclhers to be hired.  The Malawi Institute of Education would provide various training
and upgrading programs for these teachers.
Source:  Moe and Bank staff estimates
Date:  August 24, 1982.                                                                                                             X 



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Table T-6
MALAWI
FIFTH EI)UCATION PROJECT
SECONDARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS AND TEACHER NEEDS, 1979-1990
Enrollment
As % of    Student                               f Teacher 2/   New  2/
YearlTotal 1/  children   Teacher          Teachers               lWastage and Teachers
I          aged 14-17  Ratio   Malawian Expatriate  Total  Promotion  Needed for
(6%)    Next Year
1979    16,431      3.5        20:1      590        225       800         30         34
1980    17,941      3.6     21.5:1       593        241       834         36         60
1981    18,800      3.6        22:1      604        250       854         36         82
1982    19,800      3.6        22:1      650        250       900         39         84
1983    20,800      3.6        22:1      695        250       945         42         87
1984    21,800      3.7        22:1      740        250       990         44          94
1985    22,900      3.7        22:1      790        250      1040         47         97
1986    24,000      3.7        22:1      850        240      1090         51        106
1987    25,200      3.7        22:1      915        230      1145         55         114
1988    26,500      3.8        22:1      984        220      1204         59        118
1989    27,800      3.8        22:1     1053        210      1263         63        127
1990    29,200      3.8        22:1    :1127        200      1327         68
1/ Assumes 5% enrollment growth per year starting in 1981. Does not include
other secondary level programs in technical and teacher training.
2/ Malawian only.
Source: MIOE and Bank Staff estimates.
Date: August 5, 1982



MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
MALAWI CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
Enrollments, 1971-1982
COURSES                   1971    1972  1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   19821
P.S.L.C.                   100      92    135    132    130    111    126    115    173    220    208    274
J. CERTIFICATE            2567   2657   3926   2932   2916   2844   2782   3527   3527   3775   4393   6426
G.C.E. 'O' LEVEL            90    151    164       83    116      10      11      27       9      -       -       -
M.C.E. 'O' LEVEL             -       -       -    213    444    431    536    657   1009   1044   1036   1600
TEACHER UPGRADING           12    180    235    241    206    194    117    149           78    100      79      71
TOTAL                     2769   3080   3560   3601   3812   3590   3574   3832   4796   5139   5716   8371
Source:   MOE "Education Statistics, 1981" and MCC reports
Date: September 16, 1982
X z



LmIA1.4I
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIHATED ENROLL.MENT AND EYPENDOTURES, HIIIISTRY OF EDUCATION
1980/81 - 1900/9 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~L909
1980/81                                               1981/82                                                  1985/6t                                               1 990/i
CIOiI792  (rc1  981782 prices)
pbli                                  of toa                                                 ottaU of.total                                                                                                 oftoa
Porollasot   UnIt   Expenditure   Edacstion           PulIc         Unt   Tp-dE-    Edoco                   Fo            UiE        npedit-o   EdocaEioo-         Plbilo         Unit   Expenditaro   RduoatLon
Actual        Cost   HRC'UUO         Eope-ditoe       E-nrolimo-t   Cost   >RC'200         Expend itro      Etorollmeot   Co.t       9K'U)00       Expend tar-     E-1rolment    Cost  7MC'0o             Eoptodttanx
1.  Adaloistrstioi nod Co.eral                                         2,903             10.3                                  3,988           14.5                                    0,041           14.5                                  6,187             12.7
2. Prtsary Education                            754,S9U         12.1   9,187             38.9          708,20U        19.0   iU,336            37.6           921.60U         10.2   13,080 39.0                   I,179U UG         17.2   202,79             41.6
3.  Secondary idxoatiox                           15,71U       UIh.U   3,391             14.4           16.5UU       235.3    3,893            14.0             00),150      235.3    4,741            10.1           25,700       259.8    6.677              13.7
4.  Primary Teacher Trainio 1,754                            670.0   1,175               5,0            1,823       692.3    1,292             4.7              1,920       692.3       929            4.0             0,480       764.4       660             5.5
5   Techoitcal. idacatito                          1,030       315.0     324              1.4            1,080       365.7       395             1.4             1,3210      365.7       483            1.4             1,68O      403.8        678             1.3
6.  Halual  Txrrespondenre2 ColUge                 5,716        91.0     462              1.9            8,37i        65.i       545            2 0.0          II,OUO         65.1       716            2.1           15,400         71.9    1,107              2.3
7. Untoxrtuit of x8Mlaei                           1,723    3.452.U   5,948              25.7            I,83U    3,716.0}   6,800 24.8                          2,310    3,5000    8,1085             24.1            2,810    3.864.3   10,859               22.3
8.  Ocher (Coltars)                                                       208             0.9                                    016            0.8                                      263            0.8                                     335             0.7
9. Total Ministry of idocation                                        23,600            100.0                                 27,455          100.0                                   33,551          100.0                                 48,782            100.0
10.. Total        .o.erxe .nt   ecarreot                                                                                                                                                                                                   294,013
REpenditx-e                                                      207,642                                                245,634                                                 243,918
It. Edo-tion Recurrext Etpexdit-re
as I of Tost1 G-novrntext
Recarrent Expeodttore                                             11.5                                                     11.2                                                   13.9                                                   16.6
12.  GDP an FPator Co-t Currenr Price                              1,059,000                                              1,204.000                                               1,355,102                                              1,729,490                             a
Ed-eat-o Eeneot eopsnfttresso
X of fGP                                                          2.2                                                     2.3                                                     2.5                                                   2.8
13.  Cxpitsl .. penditare-Ed"-ition                                    7,613                                                  14,784
14.  Total  ooxetent Capital  OxpendiLtars                           174 900                                                 124,165
15,  Capital Expenditure on Ed-atton aa.
% of Total Capital Eapendit-re                                    4.4                                           ,        11.9
16,  ToEsI txpexditare 00 Eduaston                                    31,213                                                  42,239
17. CapitsI Expenditare on Edatation as
% nf Total Edxeatlo.  Enpeoditore                                24.4                                                    35 0
19. Total Ed-ott-on Eop-oditarexa                                      2.9                                                     3.5
% of GDP
1.   Enno    t groath as foLLaca.  Ptriay edu-tt  boxoot 4.6X, Scondary generl e docanio  and te-hbicl  educatio   t 5% pV.i;.  CC at 7% p.a., Uoi-ersiLy  R Haluoi at 6% p.a.to 1985/86, theresfter 4%.
Enro11-et in prio-te inantnotiox .. oo..d reono   90 proaea(.,proy9%po.  aeoOrDexu   2,ohr0
Primary neaoher rrantoog rolin8ox voood toorDose In atoordance altO estaiiahstent of new institutions oodrr the Fifth Ed-catlo- Pr-je-n.
2.  UniT tosie  for higher odooatlon to  deuxxaax to U 5,500 hy 1985-86, thxPeafter no increase at 2X p.o., prit=ry  d.atanion anit coasx    tocrenseat 1Z p.a.  to 1985-86 and 4X y.a. no 1990-91.
Unit conns for orher leoela no toornase at 0X to 1985-86 and 00 p.o. ihereoftxr in 1790-91.  Untal tost St adatnistrai8o6  and oth2t coltoth            to tncreaas  ar 5Z p.a. no 1990-91. aL -
3. GDP proJscted to IncreL.   rat 3% to 1985-86 and the-nafter at 5X P.O.                                                                                                                                                                                              0 0
4. Co.e.. ent bhdgot proj-ctrd to d-crr.ao fran 20.40 ot GDP It  198l-a2 to 102 in 1985-86 ood 17X in 1990-91.
So-rte   Conetna-ot Statitail Yeax  EooEk bhdgot docane-n-  and misxio- earixoto-.
Sate: Soytnbor 1982.



MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
in Malawi Kwacha in 000's (US$1.0 = MK 1.08)
Civil  Movable  Equipment Total          Arch./Eng.   Technical   Training   Operation-             Total
Items                Components                  Works  Fur-       Vehicles  Physical   and Auditing Assistance  and Fel-   al Cost                 (000's)
niture               Facilities Services        and Studies lowships                    MK        US$
1.01-04   Primary Teacher Training Colleges  15,940           790    1,103          17,833       1,060        -             150         -          19,043  17,632
2.01-26   Malawi Correspondence College            2,967      271       260         3,498            74        173          306         -          4,051   3,751
3.01-02   Secondary Schools                        4,970      350       240         5,560          104        -             -           -          5,664   5,244
4.01       Malawi College of Accountancy           1,330       90       240         1,660          -           691          324         -          2,675   2,477
Studies, Evaluation and Auditing         -                   -            -             -          455           256         -            711      658
Project Administration                   -                   171         171             20        430           128         375        1,124   1,041       -
Baseline Costs       Total             25,207     1,501   2,014        28,722         1,258      1,749         1,164         375      33,268  30,803
(January 1983)       Local             14,620       600      201       15,421           503        175           215         217      16,531  15,306
Foreign           10,587       901   1,813        13,301           755      1,574           949         158      16,737  15,497
Contingencies:
a)  Physical (Local               1,462        30        10        1,502            50          9            11          11       1,583   1,466
(Foreign            1,059       45        91        1,195            76         79            47           8       1,405   1,301
b)  Price     (Local              5,242       112        31        5,385           107         44           81           53       5,670   5,250
(Foreign            2,595       90       192        2,877           161        242           135          20       3,435   3,180
Physical and        (Total             10,358      277       324       10,959           394        374           274          92      12,093   11,197
Price Contin-       (Local              6,704      142        41        6,887           157          53           92          64       7,253    6,716  . .
gencies             (Foreign            3,654      135       283         4,072          237         321          182           28       4,840    4,481    x
Total Project       (Total             35,565   1,778    2,338         39,681         1,652      2,123         1,438         467      45,361   42,000    -
Cost including    (Local               21,324      742       242       22,308           66()       228           307         281      23,784   22,022  wo
Contingencies       (Foreign           14,241   1,036    2,096         17,373           992      1,895         1,131         186       21,577   19,978



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Tahle T-10
MALAW I
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
BASELINE COSTS BY COMPONENTS
(in HK 000's)
Civil Works
TBuildings and Site Works)
Item        Location        Teaching/  Boarding  Staff                Movable Equipment/ Total    Arch/Engr Technical  Training/ Operation-    Total
Communal                Houses  Total  Furni-   Vehicles  Physical and Audit Assistance/ Fellow-   al cost                  (00 'S)
ture                  Facil-   Services  Studies         ships                    MK    US$
ities
Primary Teacher Training Colleges
;.01       Domasi              1,630      1,620      1,460    4,710       235       305        5,250         172       -            -         -          _
1.02       Bembeke               640         715       715   2,070        130       208       2,408          176       -            -         -          _       -
1.03       Kasung,a            1,745      1,910      1,725    5,380       250       330        5,960         412       -            -         -
1.04       Karanga             1,340      1,230      1,210    3,780       175       260        4,215         300       -            -         -          _       _
Baseline   (Total            5, 355     5,475    5,110  15,940          790     1,103      17, 833      1,060                    150        -        19, 043 17, 632
Cost       (Local                                           9, 245      316       110        9,671         44        _           113      _          10, 208  9,451
(Foreign                                         6,95       47J4      993        6,162         636      _             37        _         8,835  8,181
Malawi Correspondence College
2.01-13    One Stream            780         -         273    1,053        94        35        1,182          _ -                   - _        _ 
Centers
214-25     Two Stream          1,152         -         252   1,404        122        60        1,586          _        _            _         _          _
Centers
2.26       HQ1/Regional          250         -         260      510        55       165          730          _           _         _          _
Offices
Baseline    (Total           2,182        _          785   2,967        271       260        3,498        74         173         306                  4,051  3,751
Cost        (Local                                          T1,721     T18                   1,855         30         17         -31                  1,933  1,789
(Foreign                                       1, 246      163       234        1, 643        44        156         275       _          2,118  1,962
Secondary Schools
3.01      Lilongwe Rural       1,100         750       920   2,770        155       120        3,045      -            -            -         _
3.02      Livingstonia.          640        940        620   2.200        195       120        2,515      -           _             _        _             _
Baseline    (Total           1,740      1,690      1,540   4,970        350       240        5,560       104         -            _         -         5,664  5,244
Cost        (Local                                          2,883 | 140 |          24    |3,047           42        _             _                   3,089  2,860
(Foreign                  ,                    2,087       210       216        2,513         62       _             _        _          2,575  2,384
Mlalawi College of Accountancy
4.01       Blantyre
Baseline    (Total      -      450         395       485   1,330         90       240        1,660      -            691         324        -         2,675  2,477
Cost         (Local                                           771   |    36    |               6831 1   -             69          3         -           932    863
(Foreign                                         559        54       216          829       _           622         292  |          _    1,743  1,614
Studies, Evaluation and Auditing
Baseline (Total                                                                                                      455         256        -           711     658
Cost      (Local                                                                                                      4 46     276  |72                          67
(Foreign                                                                                                  409         230  |                 639      591
Project Administration  PIU)
Baseline (Total                                                                   171          171         20        430         128        375       1,124   1,041
Cost      (Local                                 j17                                            17           8        43          13        217         298     276
(Foreign                                                                154   |    154 |        12         387    | 115  |    158          _ 826    765
otal Baseline Cost
(Total            9,727       7,560     7,920   25,207   1,501       2,014       28,722      1,258      1,749       1,164         375    33,268 30,803
(Local            35,641      4,385     4,594    14,620|   600 |        201    |15,421  |      504         175        215  1           217  16,532 15,306
(Foreign          4,0866      3,17S     3,326    10,587      901       -81       13,301  |     754      1,574    | 949  |         158     16,736 15,497



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Table T-11
MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIIATED PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY
MK (million)                 US$ (million)           % of
Category                 Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total    Base Cost
1. Civil Works                   14.62   10.59  25.21         13.54    9.80   23.34       76%
2. Furniture                       0.60    0.90   1.50         0.55    0.84    1.39         4%
3. Equipment/Vehicles              0.20    1.81   2.01         0.19    1.67    1.86         6%
Sub-Total                   15.42   13.30  28.72         14.28   12.31   26.59       86%
4. Architectural Auditing          0.50    0.76   1.26         0.46    0.70    1.16         4%
Services
5. Techn. Asst./Studies            0.18    1.57   1.75         0.16    1.46    1.62         5%
6. Training and Fellowships        0.21    0.95   1.16         0.20    0.88    1.08         4X
7. Project Administration         0.22    0.16   0.38          0.20    0.15    0.35         1%
Baseline Cost  (1-7)          16.53   16.74  33.27         15.30   15.50   30.80    100%
(Jan. 1983)
8. Contingencies
a)  Physical (9%)               1.58    1.41   2.99         1.46    1.31    2.77
b)  Price Increase (27X)       5.67    3.43   9.10          5.25    3.18    8.43
Sub-Total                    7.25    4.84  12.09          6.71    4.49   11.20
Total Project Cost (1-8)   23.78   21.58  45.36           22.01   19.99   42.00
of which taxes         2.16     -      2.16        2.00      -       2.00



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Table T-12
_ALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS I/
Quarters             Disbursements          Accumulated         Undisbursed
Disbursements          Balance
1                     -                      -                34.00
2                    0.20                   0.20              33.80
3                    0.30                   0.50              33.50
4                    0.50                   1.00              33.00
5                    0.80                   1.80              32.20
6                    1.20                   3.00              31.00
7                    1.50                   4.50              29.50
8                    2.00                   6.50              27.50
9                    2.50                   9.00              25.00
10                    3.00                  12.00              22.00
11                    3.20                  15.20              18.80
12                    3.20                  18.40              15.60
13                    2.80                  21.20              12.80
14                    2.50                  23.70              10.30
15                    2.20                  25.90               8.10
16                    1.80                  27.70               6.30
17                    1.50                  29.20               4.80
18                    1.40                  30.60               3.40
19                    1.20                  31.80               2.20
20                    1.00                  32.80               1.20
21                    0.70                  33.50               0.50
22                    0.50                  34.00
1/ From date of effectiveness



MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Full-time Enrollment and Population Pyramid - 1980
ENRO LLMENT
MALE                                                                                    FEMALE              AGE GROUP
AGE           GRADE              ENROLLMENT                                MALE               FEMALE                       ENROI LMENT            POPULATION
23                                                                                                                                                  96,000
22                                                                  L_                            _                                                 99,000
HIGHER
21              4                                                                   50 20    j                                                     10:t,000
20                                   66%                                           270  130                                     34%105000
19              2                     6                                            540  290                                     3                  1013,000
9
18              1                                                                 750  390                                                         113,000
SECONDARY'J
17              4                                                               3,200   1, 100                                                     117,000
16              3                                                               3,400   1,300                                                      122,000
+                                    71%                                                                                        29%
is              2                                                               3700   1,700                                                       127,000
+2
14                                    1                                         3,800   1,700                                                      133,000
PRIMARY
13              8                                  52,300                                      118,400                                             139,000
12              7                                                 31,400                       16500                                               145,000
11 6                                                           38,9001g 23,200                                                                     151,000
10 5                                    59o/                                      l 37,100  g-- g-- 23,900                     4                   159,000
10                         ~~~~~~~59%4%
+              4                                           46,500                                     32,600                                       166,000
9
+          ~~3                                  62,400                                                  473017.0
+              2                           81,500     * .         ,,                                               62,800                          183.000
8 1                    126,100                                                                                                      108,700        192,000
130 120 110 100 90  80  70  60  50  40  30  20  10  0  10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90  100 110 120 130
2   Full-time enrollment
m   Age group population                                                                                                                                                                               t   X
J/ Enrollment at secondary level includes T-3 primary teacher training and technical training but does not include Malawi Correspondence College.
Enrollment breakdown at higher level is estimated and includes T-2 primary teacher training and "Board of Governors" courses.
Source: Bank estimates and "Education Statistics Malawi 1982".                                                                                World Bank-24213



MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of the Formal Education System
PRIMARY                                                     SECONDARY                                                           HIGHER
Day and Boarding
Secondary Schools                                    Sixth Form                         Overseas Studies
Technical
Schools                                                   Arts and Sci-nc.s
3  L                                                          t                         -                 B;_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eodry eache raiin
Teacher {
Training (T-31                             Technology
Malawi Correspondsne 
College                                                                        Agricusture
Primary Teacher Training (T-2)
LABOR FORCEI
School Year 1    2       3    4     5    6       7    8                     9    10                    11   12                                13      14          15             16   17    18    19   20
I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I                      ~        ~I I                  I I                                   1       1-                          11  11  1
Age  6     7     8    9    10    11    12   13                      14   15                     16   17                               18      19          20              21    22   23    24   25
EXAMINATIONS
<    Primary School Leaving Certificate                                                                                                                                                                                                   c
(2   Junior Certificate
<3 Malawi Certificate of Education
<3 Higher School Certificate
m   To be supported under Fifth Education Project                                                                                                                                   IVorld Benk-21414



MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture
Minister
I                        l_____                               Principal                    --i----------r----r----
Secretary
r--L    _                                        __L I_ '_  r-rl-L_                         I     
Chichewa             Malawi Certificate                                                         I        University of      aawi           Malawi  Book           National         Malai College
Board.eiInstitute of                                                                                                    MaaI                    Library           a     C      *
o Board               Educesin    ard                                                         I    Malawi    I         Education   '        SerServie             Service     I  of Accounting
Testing Board                               Deputyr                                                                                         Serice     I 
Secretary
Chief Inspector                                             Chief Education
of Schools                                                    Officer                                                                  U     rI
Assistant Chief
Assistant Chief                      Assistant Chief                                  Education
Inspector of                         Education                                       Officer,
Schools                         Officer, Planning                              Administration
Primary, Teacher                        AccountsP
Inspectorate                           OffPice                                  Training, Secondary,                    Auditing and                          Personnel
and Examinations                     (including PIU)                               Correspondence and                    Internal Services                        Office
lincluding PIU)                  ~~~Technical EducationInealSris
World Bank -19406
iP) 1



ANNEX I
Chart `-4
MALAWI1
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1HPLEIENTATION SCHEDULE
Sept. 30, 1988
1983             1984                 1985               1986             1987                1988
Items      Component        Quarters        2    3    4    1   2   3   4          1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3  4
Prircary Teacher Training Colleges
Civil Wdorks/Arch./Eng. Services
L.0l     Domasi                              DDD DDD DDD  DDD DDD DDD DDD   XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX 000 000 000
1.02      ienbeke                                 DDD DDD  DUD DDD XXX XXX   XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX 000 000  000
1.03     Kas-ng.                                      DDD  DOD DDI) XXX XXX   XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX 000 000 00
1.04     Karonga                                      DDD) DDD DDD DDD XXX   XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX 000 000 000
1.(1-04  Furniture/Equipment                                PPP PPP P PP FFP   *** *** **a  ***  *** *** *** 000  000 000
1.01-04  Training and Fellowships                                         T    TTT TTT TTT TTT TT    T TTT TTT TTT  TTT TTT
Malawi Correspondence College
2.01-25  Civil Works/Arch./EnL .            DDD DDD  DDD  DDD XXX XXX XXX   XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX 000 000  000
Services
2.26      Civil Works/Professional                          DDD DDD D)DD DDD   XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX 000 000  000
Services
2.01-26  Furniture/Equipment                                PPP PPF lPP PPP     *** *** *** ***  *** **  *a* *    300 000 000
2.26      Technical Assistance                              SSS SSS ';SS SSS   SSS SSS SSS SSS
2.2H      Training _ll11ows; Bs                       TTT  TT TTT OTT T TT      TTT TTT TTO  TOT TTT TTO TOT TTT  OTT TTT
Secondary Schools
Civil Works/Arch./Eng. Services
3.01      Lilongwe Rural                                    DDD DDD ODD DDD   XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XX  XXX XXX 000 000 000
3.02      Livingstonia                           DDD  DDD  DDD DDD XXX XXX   XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXXX  300 000 000
3.01-02  Furniture/Equipment                                PPF  PEP PPP   ***   *** ***00 000 000
4.01      Malawi College of
Accountancy
Civil Works/Arch./Eng.                 DDD  DDD  ODD DDD DDD DDD   XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXO XXX  XXX 000 000 000
Services
Furniture/Equipment                               PPP PPP PPP PPP   ***                                        000 000 000
Technical Assistance                                                           SSS SSS  SSS SSS SSS  SSS SSS 111
Training & Pc linwc,iios                    TTT  TTT TTT TrT TTT   TTT TTT TTT TTT  TTT TTT TTT TTT  TTT TTT
Studies, Evaluation and Auditing
Technical Assistance                   SSS  SSS  SSS SSS S'; SSS      SSS SS5 SSS SSS    SSS SSS SSS SSS  SSS SSS SSS SSS
Training and Fellowships                    TTT  TTT TTT TYT TTT   TTT TOT TTT TTT  TTT TTT TTT TTT  TTT TTT
Project Administration
Equipment/Vehicles                     PPP  PPF   PF *** *C* ***  *** 300 000 000  000
Tecinical Assistance
I senior architect                               inanced bY DANIDA
2 architects                                    Financed by DANiIDA _          _        _         _
I engineer                            _     _Financed by DANIDA   |_            -      _    _     _
I quantity surveyor                  Financed by Common-
wealth Funds for Devel.-
2 architects                          Financed by Japan Gvt.-
Site-supervisors                                Financed by the  th Ed.Proj.           XXX XXX XXX XXX
I financial controller                 SSS SSS   SSS SSS SSS SSS  SSS SSS SSS SSS   SSS SSS SSS SSS  SSS SSS
Training     ini                                               TTT   TTT TTT TTT TTT  TTT TTT TTT TTT  TTT TTT TTT TTT
Local Staff and                                   Financed by the  th Ed.Proj.-    LLL LLL ILL LLL  Lii ILL LLL LLL
Operational Expenditures
Legend:  DDD = Design, tenders and contract award                           000 = Defects liability
XXX = Construction and supervision                                SSS = Technical assistance (specialists)
PPP = Procurement of furniture and equipment                      TTT = Training program incl. fellowships
= Manufacturing, delivery and installation                   LLL = Local staff



- 49 -
MALAWI                                                            ANNEX 2
FlFT  EDUCATION PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLE!ENTATION
Indicators of Educational Objectives
Component                      Objective                            How Measured               When Measured                      Base Line Data
Primary Teacher Training       1, Enroll an additional                       Enrollment and   Annually and after construction   Enrollment in existing colleges
1560 students per year with                output data       of project institutions - 1987    was 1754 in 1980-81 and output
output of an additional 780                                                                        in 1980 was 773
graduates per year
2. Reduce student teacher ratio               Enrollment and   Annually and after construction   Student teacher ratio was 65:1
from 65:1 to 60:1 and increase             teacher data       of project institutions - 1987    and number of trained teachers
nunber of trained teachers                                                                         was 7998 in 1980-81
to 16200 by 1990
3. Improve  quality and efficiencv of         Results on PSLC  Annually and after construction   An estimated 23% of students enter-
primary education.  By 1990, 37% of    examination and  of project institutions - 1987    ing primary schools in 1980-81 will
entering students would complete           estimates of                                            ultimately graduate from the
primary education                          student flow                                            primary education.  In 1980 the
pass rate on the PSLC examination
was 74%
Accountancy Training           1. Increase enrollment in MCA to 215          Enrollment and   Annually and after construction   Enrollment in 1981 was 150.
PTE and output to 110 technicians          output data        of school in 1987                    Output was 16 technicians
and 30 accountants per year
2. Improve pass and flow rates                Examination        Annually                             In 1981 pass rates were 33% and
results                                                 79%   for first and second year
technician level and 9% and 43Z
for first and second year
professional level
3. Meet manpower needs for 320                Output data        Annually                             Output in 1981 was 16.  There
additional Malawian accountants                                                                    were about 300 Malawian accountants
and 17d0 accouctiug technicians                                                                    and auditors in 1979.
through 1990
Secondary Education            1. Establish on.e  ew secondary school        enrollment data  After construction of                  In 1981 total number of first year
with 480 enrollment which meets needs                         scbool in 1987                       sdays secondarv slaces in r-ral
in rural Lilongwe                                                                                  L Lilonewe was 80 and enrollment
was 320
2. Rehabilitate Livingstoria                  Site visit         After construction of                In 1982 roofs were in serious state
Secondary School and expand to                               school in 1987                        of disrepair, dormitory walls were
480 enrollment.                                                                                    in danger of collapse and kitchen
facilities, furniture, and equipment
were inadequate.  Enrollment in 1981
was 243 in the regular school and
209 in MCC night school
Correspondence Education       1. Improve  physical facilities               Site visit        After construction of                 Centers were located in primary
in 25 MCC centers and expand -                               facilities in 1987                    schools or in abandoned or unsafe
of MCC headquarters                                                                                buildings
2. Hire six additional tutors                 Records           June, 1984                            There were two tutors in 1981
and a deputy principal                                                                             and there was no deputy principal
3. Train  headquarters                        Records           Annually during course of             There was no in-srvice training
and center staff                                             project                               in 1981
4. Increase  enrollment in 25 MCC             Records           Annually and after construction   Total enrollment in 1981 was 8371
centers to a total of 2960                                   of facilities in 1987                 and enrollment in the 25 centers
was 2532
5. Improve MCC pass rates to                  Records            Annually during course               In 1981 10.9% of MCC students passed
35%  and increase graduates                                  of project                            the JC examination in one sitting
to 1,200                                                                                          and 11.5% passed after two or more
sittings.  About 600 students passed
the examination
Studies, Evaluation,    1. Prepare essential evaluation and             Reports            After comple-ion                      Information not available on effec-
and Auditing                 Pre-investment studies                                                                              tiveness of self-help construction
program or on feasibility of day
,secondary schools
2. Enable MOE Planning Unit to                Observation        1983 and afterwards                  Present staff includes 'ix
carry out National Educational                                                                     professionals but quality could
Plan                                                                                               be improved
3. Improve the functioning of                 Quality and        1964 and afterwards                  There are six trained auditors and
the Auditor General's office               amount of                                               only five of eighteen assistant
internal audits                                         auditors have diploma level train-
in9 in accounting



ANNEX 3
50 -
MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to Education and Manpower in Malawi
A.1       "Report Analyzing the Costs and Efficiency of University
and Other Post-Primary Education in Mlalawi", University of
Bath, 1982.
A.2       "Malawi:  Education :Sector Memorandum," Report No.
3673-MAI, October 28, 1981, World Bank.
A.3       "Malawi Educational Statistics:  1972/73 - 1980/81," Malawi
Ministry of Education, November, 1981.
A.4       "Approved Estimates of Expenditure on Revenue Account for
the Financial Year 1982/83", Malawi Government, 1982.
B      Reports Related to the Project
B.1       Set of Government Documents Requesting World Bank
Assistance for the Fifth Education Project, June, 1982.
B.2       "Evaluation of the Malawi College of Accountancy Project,"
ILO, March, 1982.
C.     Working Papers and Tables
C.1       Educational and Architectural Working Papers, including
Indicators for Project Supervision, January, 1983.
C.2       "Malawi College of Accountancy, A Component of the Fifth
Education Project in the Republic of Malawi," World Bank
consultant report by H. Peter Holzer, July 20, 1982.
C.3       "Report on the Malawi Correspondence College," World Bank
consultant report by T. Derkx, July 20, 1982.



[BRD 16689
32'                                                            34~                                                             36-       OCTOBER 192
noDozsSo/znv L-*v>    r             >                                   ,A LAW  I
TaoarsaSaisa\,                                                   FIFTH EDUCATION  PROJECT
'0 \ hgekersge   'S                            .-_  PrmaryTeacherTroiningColleges
C Ch.-g .    .                 \                          .  Molawi College of Accountoncy
pCheeeahs                                    Malawi Correspondence College-
k q  ehworo   .                      --   rHeadquarters
One Stream Satelite Centers
CWt mbo (         z               >    Two Stveam Sate ,te Centers
*:>       Q                      :  Secondory Sciools
'a-vingstomo   ;                         Pr ncipal roaods
_                 opho                 i     DR    iy
i     *-a   Rsmpli-'                    g~ - - Rivers
------Reg onal boundaries
NO-R -THERN  -                                         ---International boundaries
LiEkdend -             -
*   ,          ,  Mzuzo    L,jwazr
'   R G / ON   0Nk.t.BdYfr-    -
Z    A      M       B    I   A             _Bta             '               /.
Mv err ba0  le,sa    -        IMALAWI)
-12-' ?                                                                    Chaumv/s                                       j                          12-
27        ^        ;,                                K LOMETERS 0    20   40   60   BC   100
_.    >   -q-   \           MILES 0       20       40        60
/                 i x, df             "-'t  
(   '~  u f                    -:''    0Nkhstl.to
otsungu i
j   C E NjTiRA Z
*      -                                                  . ,)  \  \   VlsC,br,l
cQor/  -   \    >M  OOZ'A  M  B  I Q  U  E
R,E G  O N
rstsaas  4h (l    ,G   0X                               aSena       -.
"Ct   ~          >                          Xt ho.' Sn,m                              '        
dwe~~~~~~ reor uJBay fl trte
W2,/d ~     ~         ~         N San dn  I fVi ls n        
1>--
.                                                      \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\
Thea may hasb pee,,epardsb the                                                    UNaa~        t O JTHENV
.c.fv             UGeD Af the readers                                          f                                          j
ZW ,,>h It                                                                   Ny;bl thal-u u <
The d          -asava  sd sad the
basdae /L- A ah,s -p           M    0    Z   A   M    B   I   0       U   E                          --  O  9
-d nyC _fty a the earl at                                                          i  :v          -      ~      ms       (.t
NAI3 -- ,y - lh O.  f                                                                  - hCef
W,,!h Bas sad  s tii       ,                                                                       C
2saytrtr a,-F      39-- sn49dsr4eeaest,>                                                                                     3
-Y    ~          hh~N)srsa-                                                           00           455
C   ,f-B  b,,-/--                                                                      re
N' ,  -                                                 Chsrap"' CAhrn-Nyhsb
J m  I [asgaa,,d 1ANZAN         ,              16's,  Ch,k--eo                                    '-0he6 0S'-
ANGOLA   J   >t  a'5BA                                          ~'                                  T~eor
A M   I A'                                                                        cO/
I  CMBABWE~                                                                       C
NAMIB A                  )-
F oonSWANAs,--                       MADAGA/SCAR
N  -ARICA



