Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE, ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. P-3446-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT 0F THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPM.ENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT To US$34.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
February 8, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uised by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00        =  MK 1.08
MK 1.00        =  US$0.92
SDR 1.00       =  US$1.10311
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare                     =  2.471 acres
1 kilometer                   =  0.6214 mile
1 meter                       =  3.28 feet
1 square meter                = 10.76 square feet
ABBREVIATIONS
EPD          -   Economic Planning Division of the Office of the
President and Cabinet
IPA          -   Institute of Public Administration
JC           -   Junior Certificate
MCA          -   Malawi College of Accountancy
MCC          -   Malawi Correspondence College
MCE          -   Malawi Certificate of Education
MIE          -   Malawi Institute of Education
MOE          -   Ministry of Education and Culture
MOW          -   Ministry of Works
NRDP         -   National Rural Development Program
PIU          -   Project Implementation Unit
PSLC         -   Primary School Leaving Certificate
PTTC         -   Primary Teacher Training College
FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAiWI
FIFTH EDUCATI]ON PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                 Republic of Malawi
BENEFICIARY:             Ministry of Education (MOE)
AMOUNT:                   SDR 30.9 million (US$34.0 million equivalent)
TERMS:                    Standard
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:    The proposed project would assist Malawi in
improving the cquality of primary education,
expanding secondary education, increasing the
number of trained accountants and accounting
technicians, and strengthening the management of
the education and audit systems. Specifically, the
project would finance: (a) three new primary
teacher trainirng colleges, expansion of one
existing college and staff training; (b) 25 new
Malawi Correspondence College centers (MCC), other
necessary addit:ions to MCC headquarters, technical
assistance, and training of MCC staff; (c) one new
secondary school and expansion of an existing
school; (d) a new college of accountancy and
related technical assistance and staff training;
and (e) studies, technical assistance and
fellowships to the Ministry of Education (MOE) and
the Auditor General's office. As a result of the
project, primary teacher training capacity would be
increased by 80 percent and the quality of teaching
improved, contributing to significantly improved
completion rates. Relatedly, the number of
successful MCC students is expected to increase
significantly and the need for trained accountants
be met through the 1990's. The project would also
strengthen the MOE's planning and research capacity
and improve the Auditor General's capabilities.
There are no major risks to the project except a
possible overall shortage of recurrent funds if
Malawi'seconomy does not improve in the
medium-term.  However, as a result of the
structural adjustment program, the economy is
expected to rel:urn to a GDP per capita growth rate
which is positive in real terms over the next five
years.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
ESTIMATED COST:                  Local       Foreign       Total
---------US$ mill ions---------
Primary Teacher Training          9.4         8.2          17.6
Correspondence Education          1.8         2.0           3.8
Secondary Education               2.8         2.4           5.2
Accountancy Education              .9         1.6           2.5
Studies, Evaluation and Auditing .1            .6            .7
Project Administration             .3          .7           1.0
Base Costs            15.3        15.5          30.8
Physical Contingencies            1.5         1.3           2.8
Price Contingencies               5.2         3.2           8.4
Total Project Costs          22.0        20.0         42.0
(of which taxes)              2.0        -             2.0
Total Net of Taxes           20.0        20.0         40.0
FINANCING PLAN:                  Local       Foreign       Total
----------…US$million---------
IDA                              14.0        20.0          34.0
Government                        8.0         -             8.0
Total                        22.0       20.0          42.0
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
-----------------US$million--------------
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Annual                              1.8    7.2    12.2    8.0    4.3    0.5
Cumulative                          1.8    9.0    21.2   29.2   33.5   34.0
APPRAISAL REPORT:                 Report No. 4138, dated January 28, 1983.
RATE OF RETURN:                   Not applicable



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE ])IRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLC 07 MALAWI
FOR A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for SDR 30.9 million (US$34.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the Fifth Education
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Malawi: Growta and Structural Change, A Basic
Report" (Report No. 3082a-MAI) dated February 8, 1982, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 9, 1982. Annexes to the report were
distributed on June 26, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about six
million people in 1981) landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a cli-
mate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
4.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$200 and has been
identified by the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries,
its progress since independence, measured against its natural resources,
has been significant. GDP at constant prices grew at an average annual
rate of 6 percent between 1964 and 1979. During the same period, real
growth of estate agricultujre and manufacturing exceeded 10 percent per
annum and export volume grew at 4.5 percent per annum. A steadily
increasing investment rate (rising from 9 percent of GDP at independence to
33 percent in 1979) has been supported by heavy inflows of official and
private external capital as well as by a significant increase in domestic
savings (from virtually nil in 1964 to 14 percent of GDP in 1979).
5.        Malawi's development success has been due largely to the realis-
tic and purposeful policies of the Government. Public investment has been
intended primarily to support private initiative in the directly productive
sectors by providing infrastructure, public utilities and support ser-
vices. The Government has emphasized smallholder agriculture, as about
90 percent of the population lives in the rural areas and depends on agri-
culture for its livelihood. The Government has thus undertaken a number of
integrated rural development projects, and, more recently, has embarked on
the National Rural Development Program (NRDP), an ambitious 20-year program



- 2 -
for extending services to smallholders countrywide. The Government's
decision to emphasize directly productive sectors and infrastructure has
resulted in relatively slower development of social services.
6.        Under the Government's current five-year investment program,
22 percent of total public investment has been allocated for agriculture,
36 percent for transport, 10 percent for education, 11 percent for water
and health, and 22 percent for miscellaneous investments. These
allocations are appropriate and reflect the Government's continued emphasis
on smallholder development and transport, and the increased importance of
manpower development.
7.        The 1977 population census revealed that population grew at
2.9 percent per annum during the previous 10 years. Projecting the same
growth rate for the remainder of the century, Malawi's population would
almost double by the year 2000. This high rate has important implications
for the labor/land ratio, as Malawi's population density, about 140 persons
per sq km of agricultural land, already is among the highest in Africa and,
by the year 2000, will rise to 265 persons per sq km. Only 35 percent of
land area is suitable for cultivation and the available arable land is
almost fully utilized.
8.        Traditionally, the Malawian Government has been pronatalist.
Recently the Government adopted a birth spacing policy which recognizes the
health risks of repeated pregnancies and the right of choice of family
planning. To this end, it intends to permit family planing services to be
provided within the family health context by properly trained staff at
health facilities. We intend to assist Government in its new initiative by
including family planning services, as appropriate, in the proposed health
project and through our sector work, by helping delineate the linkages
between population and development as a foundation for formulating, over
the longer term, a comprehensive population policy.
9.        Malawi's economic performance during the past 15 years was
impressive. However, its economy is heavily dependent on three primary
commodity exports (tea, sugar and tobacco) and is highly vulnerable to
international price fluctuations. Since 1974, there has been periodic
balance of payments problems of increasing severity due primarily to (a)
rapid escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate
and capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, sugar
and tea; and (c) significantly higher costs of transport for exports and
imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in
Mozambique, and disruptions of overland transport.
10.       While the Government successfully steered the economy through
balance of payments crises in the past, the deterioration in the balance of
payments since 1978 has been less manageable. For reasons outside Malawi's
control, the deficits in both the trade and non-factor services grew
rapidly. Between 1977-1980 Malawi's terms of trade fell by 40 percent.
While export prices declined by 16 percent (due mainly to falling tea and



- 3 -
tobacco prices), import prices rose by 39 percent, partly because of the
steep increase in prices of petroleum products. The petroleum import bill
more than doubled, raising its share in total imports from 8.5 percent in
1977 to almost 11 percent in 1980. In more recent years (1980, 1981),
agriculture production suffered from the recurring drought and reducing
export volumes, necessitating large imports of maize, a commodity in which
Malawi had been self-sufficient during most: of the 1970s.  Finally,
duringi979 Malawi lost its principal access to the sea following sabotage
acts on rail lines in Mozambique. Disruptions of the transport system
through Mozambique have continued. Malawi's only alternative has been to
use air freight and road haulage as principal means of transport for
exports and imports, both of which are much more costly than rail
transport. As a result of these developments which started in 1978,
Malawi's current account deficit deteriorated sharply.  From an annual
average of about 8-9 percent of GDP in the mid 1970s, it rose to 18 percent
in 1978 and 24 percent in 1979 before falling to 8 percent in 1980 and an
estimated 12 percent in 1981. Capital inf]ows did not cover current
accounts deficits and foreign exchange reserves fell from the equivalent of
over five months of imports to less than two months between 1977-1981.
11.       Malawi's fiscal position has also seriously deteriorated.  From
independence through 1977/78, government expenditures and revenues expanded
roughly in line with the increases in GDP, and deficits rarely exceeded
8-9 percent of GDP. In the past four years, expenditure growth has
outstripped the increase in revenues and the share of government deficits
in GDP averaged 15.6 percent in 1978/79-81/82. The underlying cause of
these deficits was the increase in government expenditure to around
35 percent of GDP compared to an average 26 percent for the previous six
years. Increases in domestic borrowing, mainly from the monetary system,
and in foreign borrowing, partly on commercial terms, were required to
finance the rising budget deficits. Inflationary pressures grew and prices
rose at an average rate of almost 14 percert per annum between 1979 and
1981.
12.       Because of the Government's limited ability to mobilize
resources, the appreciable expansion of Malawi's development program over
the past decade has been financed in large part by increased public capital
inflows. The net contribution from foreigr. official sources to the
financing of public investment increased from US$17 million in FY68, to
about US$105 million in FY82, of which about US$48 million were grants.
However, borrowing on commercial terms now accounts for about 50 percent of
total borrowing.
13.       By the end of 1981, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled US$687 million. Debt service in 1981 (including
repayments to the IMF) amounted to over US$100 million, equivalent to
almost 30 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services (or 26
percent excluding repayments to the IMF). This compares to a level of
about 10 percent in the mid 70s. As commercial borrowing increased,
average terms of borrowing has hardened in recent years. The average grant
element of external loans is now 40 percent compared with 80 percent during
1971-75.



- 4 -
14.       The Government and the IMF agreed to a new standby program for
SDR 22 million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aims at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April
1982. The other performance criteria involve phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on Government external commercial borrowing. Implementation of
the standby is proceeding satisfactorily.
15.       These short term measures are complemented by a medium term
structural adjustment program on which the Government embarked in 1981.
The program's principal objectives are to diversify Malawi's export base,
encourage efficient import substitution, adjust income policies, improve
the public sector's financial performance and strengthen economic planning
and monitoring. The Bank's first structural adjustment loan for US$45
million was made in June 1981. Nonetheless, despite substantial
international support for Malawi, the country's creditworthiness will
continue to deteriorate in the immediate future. On the basis of loans
committed by mid-1981 and of additional capital requirements for the period
1982-83, Malawi's debt service is projected to reach over 40 percent in
1982 (including repayments to the IMF). To reduce the hump in payments due
in 1982-84 and to keep debt servicing within reasonable bounds, Malawi has
recently rescheduled most of its commercial and official debt. Malawi's
creditworthiness is, however, expected to improve in the medium term if the
structural adjustment program is implemented successfully. While external
borrowing is expected to remain high to make up for the shortages in
domestic funds to finance Malawi's development program (in FY82, e.g.,
domestic contribution to capital expenditures was only 27 percent), export
growth is expected to average about 14 percent a year in nominal terms
during the next five years. This would reduce the debt service ratio to an
average of 25 percent over the period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
16.       Over the past 16 years, Malawi has received 25 IDA credits
totalling around US$275 million and seven Bank loans totalling
US$75 million, of which two were on Third Window terms. Of the Bank Group
assistance, some US$105.5 million (30 percent) was for agriculture,
US$45 million (13 percent) for structural adjustment, US$73.5 million                       4
(21 percent) for human resources development, US$65 million (19 percent)
for highways, US$38 million (11 percent) for power development, US$3
million (1 percent) for a development finance company (INDEBANK), and the
balance of US$13 million (4 percent) for water supply, technical assistance
and to finance feasibility studies for wood industries project. The first
Bank loan to Malawi was made on Third Window terms in June 1976, and the
first standard Bank loan in April 1977. The most recent operation, a
US$4 million credit for the Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering project, was
approved on June 24, 1982 and became effective on February 3, 1983.



- 5 -
17.       IFC's investments in Malawi consist of a loan of US$10.8 million
for a textile mill, another of US$9.9 mil]lion for the Dwangwa sugar mill, a
US$0.6 million equity investment in INDEBJNK, and a US$2.0 million loan to
Malawi Hotels Limited for tourism. A US$ 262,000 equity investment and a
loan of US$1.7 million for the production of ethanol from molasses were
approved in July 1980; another loan of US$0.5 million for ethanol
production was approved in February 1982.  A summary statement of Bank
Group operations and notes on the executicn of ongoing projects are
provided in Annex II. Project implementat:ion has been generally
satisfactory.  However, due to depressed world sugar prices, the Dwangwa
Sugar Corporation is experiencing financiail difficulties and has approached
IFC and other project lenders for rescheduLling.
18.       During the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
continue to be closely tailored to help Malawi restructure its economy,
especially to improve agricultural productivity and the efficiency and
effectiveness of public and private enterprises. Towards this end, a
second structural adjustment operation is planned for FY84. It is expected
to continue to improve the incentives for smallholders, increase efficiency
in the productive sectors, better mobilizE: and manage resources and improve
institutions. Further investments in transport, human resource
development, health and housing are contemplated as well as a wood
processing project and a second line of credit to the INDEBANK. The Bank
Group's economic and sector work will build on the previous studies (basic
economic report, sector work on energy, hEalth and NRDP, etc.) by focusing
on five high priority areas which will, over the medium term, help Malawi
improve its economic performance: (a) agricultural productivity; (b) public
sector management; (c) external transport; and (d) the cost effectiveness
of the social sectors.
19.       At the end of 1981, the Bank accounted for 7.6 percent and IDA
and the Bank combined for 29.6 percent of Malawi's outstanding and
disbursed medium- and long-term public debt. Service on the Bank Group
debt accounted for 5.0 percent of the total debt service. In 1985, the
IDA/Bank share is projected to be about 15 percent of the total debt
service. Major multilateral creditors, in addition to the Bank Group, were
the African Development Fund and the European Investment Bank. Other
lenders include syndicated groups of commercial banks and South African
suppliers. Bilateral lending has mainly been from Canada, the United
Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United States.
Disbursements
40
20.       Disbursements of Bank Group loans and credits in Malawi
generally have kept close to schedule. As oi December 31, 1982, disbursed
funds equalled 76 percent of the total amount of effective loans and
credits. Nine of the 11 Bank and IDA-financed projects yet to be completed
were within 6 months of achieving the disbursement levels scheduled at
appraisal. Of the two remaining projects, only one -- the US$7.0 million
Blantyre Water Supply Project -- is likely to remain appreciably behind



-6-
schedule. As of December 31, 1982, disbursements totalled UJS$4.5 million
although they were scheduled at appraisal to be virtually complete.
However, all the contracts being financed by IDA now have been awarded and
the improvement in disbursements over the past several months should
continue.
PART III - The Education Sector
Overview
21.       The lack of trained manpower continues to be a major constraint
to achieving Malawi's socio-economic objectives in the 1980s. Currently
only 25 percent of the population is literate and only four percent of the
school age children are full-time in secondary education, a figure among
the lowest in Africa. Outputs at both secondary and higher levels have
fallen short of development needs. Prospects are for continued shortages
throughout the 1980's necessitating a still heavy reliance on expatriates
in middle and high-level positions in the public and private sectors. The
major needs of the sector are to improve the quality of primary education,
to expand secondary education and to strengthen and expand high priority
middle and higher level training programs.
Education System
22.       The formal education system consists of 8 years of primary, four
years of secondary, and post secondary and university courses of various
durations. Although primary school enrollment nearly doubled in the
1970's, it still represents only 62 percent of the school age population.
Repeater and dropout rates remain high and only 23 percent of students
entering the first grade complete the full eight year course. Girls make
up 45 percent of total primary school enrollment, but are more likely to
drop out than boys and, as a result, make up only 26 percent of enrollment
in grade 8. With Bank support, the Malawi Institute of Education (MIE) is
studying the causes of high dropout and repeater rates, which are more than
likely a result of poor school quality (e.g. lack of textbooks, high
student-teacher ratios, poorly trained teachers) and poverty.
Traditionally, physical construction of primary school facilities as well
as provision of textbooks, equipment and furniture, have been the
responsibility of the communities, with the Government providing teachers.
However, with the rapid growth in primary school enrollments in recent
years, the Government has begun taking a more active role. With assistance
from IDA, it has started programs to help communities construct 1,000
primary school classrooms and to provide a set of basic textbooks to all
primary school students. English, Chichewa and mathematics textbooks are
now available to most primary school children. The rapid expansion of
primary school enrollments has led to an increase in the student/teacher
ratio which is now 65:1 compared with the official policy of 50:1. This
ratio, which is among the highest in the world, underscores the critical



need for more trained teachers. The primary teacher training program
consists of two years of academic and pedagogical training, including six
weeks of supervised practice in nearby primary schools.  Bank staff
estimate that the annual output of primary school teachers will need to
increase from the present 770 per year to at least 1,900 per year by 1990
to reduce the ratio to about 60:1. This ratio can only be achieved if the
new primary teacher colleges are built and existing capacities expanded.
In 1982, the MIE initiated a program to upgrade untrained teachers, train
primary school headmasters and school supervisors, and improve teacher
training curriculum.  The program is being financed by the EEC and
technical assistance is provided from UNDP/UNESCO and the British
Government.
23.       Enrollment in secondary education increased from 3,100 in 1962 to
13,400 in 1972 but, since, has grown at an average annual rate of only
3.7 percent reaching 17,900 in 1980. The lack of secondary school
graduates has resulted in major shortages of middle and higher-level
manpower. The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE), recognizing the
need for a more rapid expansion of secondary education to meet manpower
requirements, expects to increase enrollments by five percent per year to
about 28,000 in 1990. This increase would raise the percentage of children
enrolled in secondary level schools from 4.0 percent to 4.3 percent, still
among the lowest in the world.
24.       The Fourth Education Project is providing funds for an additional
3,960 secondary student places, or about 40 percent of the 1990 enrollment
targets. IHowever, because of the shortage of teachers, limited
availability of capital and high unit costs for full boarding schools, the
Government is currently considering less costly means of expanding
secondary education,including expanding enrollments in the Malawi
Correspondence College, which provides a lower cost alternative to
traditional secondary education.
25.       Secondary teacher training is conducted at Chancellor College of
the University of Malawi. Following MOE's initiative, Chancellor College
introduced crash programs to boost the output and quality of teachers.
With Bank Group assistance, Chancellor College expects to enroll 450
students in its secondary teacher training programs by 1985 and to produce
about 125 teachers per year, which would be adequate to meet needs.
26.       Malawi Correspondence College (NCC).  Established in 1965, the
MCC provides correspondence materials and support for more than 8,000
students per annum.  Over 75 percent of MCC students are enrolled at junior
secondary school level, 20 percent in upper secondary level and 5 percent
in primary level and primary teacher certificate equivalency programs. The
secondary program is carried out in 72 centers and 18 night schools; the
latter are located on the premises of regular secondary schools. The MCC
centers provide full-time classroom accomodation for up to six hours
perday. The only requirement for entrance is a primary school leaving
certificate and a K 30 fee for correspondence materials. Students prepare



- 8 -
for the junior and senior secondary school examinations with the assistance
of study material and radio programs. Junior secondary level enrollment is
one-third of the enrollment of regular junior secondary schools. The
22 percent pass rate at this level is low compared with the 85 percent rate
among regular secondary school students. However, these rates compare
favorably with other African countries where correspondence colleges are
largely made up of students who have failed to gain entry to the normal
secondary school system. The cost per graduate in the MCC JC program also
compares favorably with that of regular secondary schools in Malawi.
However, further improvement is needed. Most centers are located in
inadequate buildings with little or no furniture or books and the existing
MCC staff requires in-service training.
Training of Middle and Higher Level Manpower
27.       Tn technical education, five technical schools assisted by the
British Government offer programs in bricklaying, carpentry, electricity,
plumbing, etc., and are expected to expand to meet the needs of skilled
workers. Higher-level education, including training of engineers,
technicians, and business managers at the Polytechnic is expanding. The
Natural Resources College, assisted by the Canadian International
Development Agency, will provide sufficient additional agricultural and
other technicians by the mid-1980s.
28.       The Office of the President and Cabinet conducts training courses
for lower level civil servants at Mpemba Staff Training College, and
Chancellor College trains 30 students per annum in public administration.
Plans for establishing a new Institute of Public Administration for
training and upgrading administrative and development skills of those at
the middle and senior levels are under active consideration. A feasibility
study has been completed and funds for design work were included in the
Fourth Education Project. However, Government officials no longer consider
construction of a new facility as a high priority and are considering
utilizing existing facilities to introduce a small-scale in-service
training program. IDA will assist the Government in firming up its
program.
Accounting Education
29.       The 1979 Manpower Survey indicated that around 60 percent of the
accountants and auditors employed in Malawi were expatriates and that
shortages of accountants were expected to increase in the 1980s. The
Malawi College of Accountancy (MCA) was established in 1979 with the
assistance of the ILO. Housed in temporary facilities administered by the
Ministry of Labor and lacking adequately qualified staff, the MCA did not
have prestige to attract good students. In 1981 the MCA was transferred to
the MOE and is now staffed by a Malawian acting principal, four ILO/UNDP
specialists and two Malawian staff members. A new curriculum reduces the
part-time courses and provides full time training. Enrollments are
expected to increase, provided adequate facilities as well as residential
quarters are constructed.



-9-
Education Financing
30.       Total education expenditures are currently about 3.5 percent of
GDP. Recurrent expenditures on education as a percentage of total
Government expenditure declined from about 17 percent in 1970/71 to
11.2 percent in 1981/82. These proportions are low by African standards
and reflect the relatively greater emphasis on directly productive sectors,
especially agriculture, and on general admLnistration. Assuming moderate
growth in enrollment, improved student/teacher ratios and continued quality
t           improvements, educational expenditures as a percentage of the recurrent
budget should increase to about 14 percent in 1985/86 and 17 percent by
1990/91, a level of expenditure that would not unduly tax Malawi's
resources and would still be lower than that of most African countries.
31.       The recurrent unit cost for primary education is a low K 13 per
student because of the high student teacher ratio.  The Government is
committed to increasing its budgetary allocations to primary education over
the next five years. The recurrent unit cost for boarding secondary
education is K 235 which is comparable to the cost in other African
countries. The Government is considering reducing these costs by changing
its policy of assigning students to schools outside their home districts
and increasing the number of non-boarding secondary schools. This and
other options will be studied under the proposed project (para. 49). The
unit cost for university education is K 3,700 which, although comparable to
other African countries, should be reduced. A study of cost-efficiency of
post-primary education financed under the Fourth Education Project has
provided some information on the possibilities of reducing higher education
costs. However, the Government had not yet been able to decide on which
combination of policies -- e.g., increasing the student-teacher ratios in
some departments and eliminating those with very low enrollments, doing
away with the student allowance, controlling transport costs, etc. -- it
plans to take and has requested Bank assistance in making specific
recommendations for increasing the cost-efficiency of higher education.
32.       Unlike most countries in Africa, Malawi charges fees for primary,
secondary and correspondence education. The fees were recently increased
for the 1982/83 school year at the primary level, covering the purchase of
textbooks and consumable materials, and at the secondary level, where fees
are charged for tuition and boarding. These charges at present are
equivalent to 19 percent of expenditures in primary education, 25 percent
on secondary education and around 24 percent at the MCC. At the university
level, no fees are charged and students receive a monthly stipend of K 12,
Government Objectives, Policy and Programs in the Sector
33.       The Government's basic objectives of education development were
set forth in the 1973--80 Education Plan in relation to the national
development goals stated in DEVPOL, 1971-80. The objectives were to
improve the internal efficiency of the eduation system, to attain a more
equitable distribution of educational opportunities, to provide essential



- 10 -
required manpower, and to reorient the curricula. In the 1970s, the
Government made considerable progress towards reaching these objectives by
expanding primary teacher training and secondary education and establishing
the MIE. The Bank Group through three education projects assisted the
Government in this regard (paras. 35-37).
34.       For the period FY83-87, the Government's public investment
program assigns high priority to education. The Government has increased
its allocation of capital expenditures to education to 10 percent of the
capital development program and has made corresponding increases in the
recurrent budget. This increase in educational expenditure is consistent
with the Government's structural adjustment program which among other
things will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of its programs in
education, health and water supply. The higher level of investment in
education will help Malawi to meet its urgent manpower needs. Emphasis
will continue to be placed on primary and secondary education and teacher
training, as well as on improving teaching materials and expanding
in-service training programs at the MIE. This policy is appropriate to
Malawi's needs.
Bank Group Assistance to the Education Sector
35.       The Bank Group has provided financial and technical support for
four education projects in Malawi and is now the major lender in the
sector. All of the projects have been or are being successfully
implemented. The First Education Project (Cr.102-MAI, 1967) provided
US$6.3 million equivalent for introducing technical subjects in secondary
education, expanding secondary schools (about 1,800 additional places) and
establishing a new 540 place primary teacher training college. A Project
Performance Audit Report (No. 2914, March 1980) indicated that the project
was successful and had expanded enrollment in primary teacher training and
secondary education. However, the teaching of technical subjects was not
fully satisfactory because of a lack of interest by students, a shortage of
teachers, and the provision of overly sophisticated equipment. Because of
these problems, the Government no longer teaches technical subjects in
general secondary schools, but concentrates on teaching them in the
technical schools.
36.       The Second Education Project (Cr.590-MAI, 1975) provided
US$11.6 million for a new 540 place teacher training college in Mzuzu, for
an additional 1,800 secondary school places, principally for girls, and for
23 model primary schools designed to serve as prototypes for community
self-help construction and as centers of adult non-formal education. The
project was largely completed on schedule. The September 1982 project
completion report (a Project Performance Audit has yet to be issued) found
that most of the quantitative and qualitative goals for primary teacher
training and secondary education had been met. However, it also found that
the model primary schools, which were built under regular contracting
methods, were unlikely to be replicated by local communities without
significant technical and financial assistance from the Government.



- 11 -
Because of a weak response from other participating agencies and MOE's lack
of experience in non-formal education, the model schools were slow to be
utilized as adult education centers.
37.       The Third Education Project (1979, Cr.910-MAI and EEC Cr.12-MAI,
for US$22.0 million) focusses on primary education. It incorporates
lessons learned from the Second Education Project through the provision of
technical and financial support needed for self-help construction of about
1,000 primary school classrooms and through supplying about 2.2 million
textbooks.  It also supports improved management of education and
curriculum development, principally through establishing the MIE; expanding
the MCC; expanding Chancellor College to produce more secondary school
teachers; and providing support for studies and evaluation of the education
system. The MIE has commenced operations and facilities for Chancellor
College and the MCC are nearly completed. A large number of textbooks have
been delivered to primary schools. The project has experienced delays in
the program of studies and evaluation because of the late arrival of
technical advisors. The self-help primary school construction program and
a small commercial education component are also behind schedule. However,
with these exceptions, and despite the project's relative complexity, the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is implementing the project
satisfactorily.
38.       The Fourth Education Project (Cr.1123, 1981) is assisting the
Government in improving and expanding secondary education (3,960 new
student places) and in training secondary school teachers at Chancellor
College. In addition, the project includes funds for preparing a national
education plan and pre-investment studies for an Institute of Public
Administration and a new primary teacher training college. The national
plan, which will provide a basis for determining Malawi's specific
educational needs for FY1984-1990 period, is under preparation and is
expected to be finished in September 1983, nine months behind schedule due
to delays in recruiting the technical advisor. Otherwise the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Bank Group Strategy
39.       Since 1978, Bank staff have completed: an in-depth Education
Sector Survey (1979); an analysis of the 1979 Manpower Survey projecting
labor force needs and supply to 1990 and delineating various policy options
for the education system (1980);a study of the rate of return to secondary
education and of inputs and achievement of primary students (1980); a
report on the management training needs of civil servants (1980); an
interim evaluation of the MCC (1982); and an up-dated education sector
memorandum (1981). These studies, plus the experience gained from
projects, have helped to improve the analytical basis for developing
Malawi's education system while highlighting the high rate of return of
investments in the sector.



- 12 -
40.       The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to be an
important vehicle for facilitating Government efforts to address key
educational policy issues such as cost recovery, financing, and manpower
development. Through its lending for free-standing education projects, the
Bank Group intends to continue to support the Government's program to
improve the quality of primary and secondary education, to strengthen
specialized training programs and to improve manpower planning and
development management capabilities.
PART IV - The Project
41.       The proposed project was identified in July 1981, and prepared by
the Government with assistance from the Association. It was appraised in
June 1982, and negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. on January 21,
1983. The Government delegation was led by Mr. Chadwick Mphande, Principal
Secretary, Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report is being
circulated separately. Annex III provides supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
42.       The proposed project will help meet Malawi's education and
training needs by (a) improving the quality of primary education, (b)
expanding the supply of secondary school graduates, (c) increasing the
numbers of trained accountants and accounting technicians, and (d)
strengthening management of the education and auditing systems. The
project would help the Government reach these objectives by providing for:
(i) three new primary teacher training colleges, expansion of an
existing college, and training of staff for the four
institutions;
(ii) 25 new centers for the Malawi Correspondence College (MCC),
improvement of facilities at existing centers, expansion of
office space and improving facilities at the MCC
headquarters in Blantyre, and training for MCC teachers and
management and technical staff;
(iii) a new secondary school and renovation and expansion of an
existing secondary school;
(iv) a new college of accountancy, training of accountancy
teachers and related technical assistance; and
(v) studies, technical assistance and fellowships to improve the
effectiveness and management of the education and auditing
systems.



- 13 -
Detailed Features
43.       (a)  Primary Teacher Training.  'Fhree new teacher training
colleges would be established and one existing college expanded to serve
each of Malawi's three regions. The new Zomba Teacher Training College
(540 places) would be located next to the HIalawi Institute of Education in
Domasi, and would serve the Southern Region. The proposed Kasungu Teacher
Training College (540 places) would serve riainly the rapidly-growing
10          Central Region, and the new Karonga Teacher Training College (300 places)
would serve the relatively underpopulated Northern Region, the development
of which has been assigned high priority by the Government.  A 400-place
9          primary school, to be used as a demonstration school, would be constructed
adjacent to each of the new training colleges.  In addition, the existing
St. Joseph's Girls Teacher Trainirng College at Bembeke in the Central
Region would be expanded from an enrollment of 120 to 300 to serve the
Central and Southern Regions, and a neighboring demonstration primary
school would be renovated. Because of the lack of alternative
accommodation, full boarding would be provided at the colleges, and 129
housing units would be constructed for teaching and support staff.
44e       At full operation, the four colleges would enroll an additional
1,560 students, increasing teacher training capacity by 80 percent and
providing about 780 trained teachers per year in two-year study courses.
By 1988-89, a total of 1,740 primary school teachers would be trained per
year at existing and new institutions. It is estimated that this increase
in output wou'd meet needs for new primary teachers by 1990, but would be
sufficient only to reduce the student teacher ratio to about 60:1.
Agreement was reached that the Government would, not later than September
30, 1983, provide the Association with an acceptable staff training
program for the four project institutions (Section 3.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The broad outlines of this plan have
already been reviewed and found to be satisfactory. The institutional,
financial and personnel arrangements for such training are already in
place, and Chancellor College and the MIE will be jointly responsible for
the program. The Government and the British Council are expected to meet
most of the training costs but the project includes K 150,000 to ensure
implementation of the training program.
45.       (b)  Correspondence Education.  Tne project would establish
facilities for 2,960 student places in 25 new centers for the MCC. All but
*          one of these centers would serve students nDw studying in makeshift
quarters. To provide for planned increases in staff at MCC central and
regional headquarters, the project would finance additional administrative
*         space and staff housing as well as additional equipment and needed
transport.
46.       The project would also include local training to improve the
skills of MCC teachers and headquarters sta:Ef; nine man-years of overseas
training for graphic artists, printshop operators and management staff;
participation by MCC staff in international conferences of correspondence



- 14 -
institutions; and technical assistance to improve evaluation methodology.
It was agreed that the Government would, not later than December 31, 1983,
appoint to the MCC a deputy principal and five additional subject
specialists (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). This
additional staff is needed to improve the MCC's programs.
47.       (c)  Secondary Education.  A new rural secondary school would be
established in the Lilongwe District, which is Malawi's fastest-growing
district, with a population of about 600,000 and only about 640 secondary
school places. The project would provide facilities, including boarding,
for 480 students, as well as staff housing. The project would also
renovate, expand and re-equip the Livingstonia Secondary School in the
Northern Region and double its enrollment to 480. The school is in a state
of disrepair and threatened with closure if repairs are not made soon.
48.       (d)  Accountancy Education.  The project would support
establishment of permanent facilities for the Malawi College of Accountancy
(MCA) on the grounds of the Malawi Polytechnic in Blantyre. The new MCA
would have classrooms and offices to serve 215 students, as well as
dormitory accommodation for 125 students and staff housing. At its full
operation, the MCA would turn out 110 accounting technicians and 30
certified public accountants annually. This output will meet Malawi's
needs for trained accountants through the 1990s. The MCA and the
Polytechnic would coordinate their activities and facilities and share
teaching staff. A draft agreement to this effect, acceptable to the
Association, was submitted by the Government during negotiations.
Agreement was reached that the Government would, not later than September
30, 1983, furnish the Association with a detailed plan for the training of
Malawi accountancy trainers (Section 3.09 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). A draft plan has already been discussed and is acceptable to
the Association.
49.       (e)  Studies, Evaluation and Auditing.  The project would provide
funds to continue the program of studies and evaluation initiated under the
Third Education Project (para. 37). The studies would include: (a) a
feasibility study to determine to what extent boarding facilities could be
reduced through better location of secondary schools or new admission
policies; (b) review of the cost-effectiveness of the primary school
self-help construction program supported under the Third Education Project;
and (c) additional yet to be agreed on studies to evaluate educational
programs and prepare future projects. It was agreed that terms of
reference, costs and timing of studies would be subject to the
Association's approval (Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Ten man-years of fellowships would be included to strengthen
the MOE's planning and research capacity. To strengthen the Auditor
General's office, which is responsible for auditing all Government
accounts, including Bank Group financed projects, an expatriate auditing
expert would be funded for three man-years to advise the Auditor General
and to train staff on the job. Six man-years of fellowship training at
overseas auciting institutions would also be inrluded. Agreement was



- 15 -
reached that the Goverrment would by December 31, 1983, appoint an audit
specialist whose qualifications, experience and terms of employment are
acceptable to the Association (Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Implementation
50.       The project would be administered by the MOE which has overall
administrative, financial and academic control of primary, secondary,
and technical education, and teacher training, the MCC and the MCA.
Day-to-day project administration is the responsibility of the Project
*         Implementation Unit (PIU) which was permanently established under the
Second Education Project as an integral part of the MOE's Planning Unit.
The PIU has successfully implemented all the IDA as well as African
Development Bank education projects. The PIU is presently staffed by a
Malawian project manager, a procurement officer, and an accountant, as well
as additional professional and supporting staff. DANIDA is supplying a
chief architect, two architects and one engineer. To strengthen the Unit's
accounting capabilities, the project would provide five man-years of
services of a financial controller. The project also provides funds for
overseas training of a Malawian architect ard quantity surveyor who, on
their return, would replace expatriate staff. It was agreed that the
Government would maintain the PIU with its present responsibilities and
ensure that it is adequately staffed by qualified professionals. The
qualifications and experience of the project. manager, senior architect,
senior procurement officer, and financial cc,ntroller would be acceptable to
the Association (Section 3.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The PIU has been functioning efficiently anc effectively and can handle the
added responsibility of implementing the proposed project. Starting in
January 1986, the project would finance the PIU's operating expenditures
(excluding salaries) for project administrat:ion. Prior to 1986, such costs
will be financed under the Fourth Education Project. The project does not
include financial assistance for local salaries of PIU staff since after
January 1986 these would become the full responsiblity of Government. The
Government regularly allocates funds for maintenance of its facilities and
will do so for all facilities built under the project.
Project Costs and Financing
51.       Total project costs inclusive of Iaxes and duties are estimated
at US$42.0 million equivalent, of which US$20.0 million, or 47 percent
would be foreign costs. Details of project costs are included in the
Credit and Project Summary. The proposed Credit of SDR 30.9 million
(around US$34.0 million equivalent) would finance 85 percent of project
costs net of taxes, including 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and
64 percent (US$14 million) of local costs. The Government would provide
the remaining US$8.0 million. Physical contingencies of 10 percent were
added to the costs of civil works and professional services and 5 percent
to all other categories. Price contingencies for foreign costs are
8 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985, and 6 percent



- 16 -
thereafter. Price contingencies for the local cost component of civil
works are 18 percent in 1983 declining to 13 percent in 1988, and for other
categories are 12 percent in 1983 declining to 9 percent in 1988. The cost
estimates include 21 man-years of technical assistance as well as 17
man-years of consultant services for architects, engineers, and supervision
of construction (US$2.8 million), at an average cost of around US$6,000 per
month, for salaries, international travel and subsistence. The costs are
based on recent consultant contracts for similar work in Eastern Africa and
include the cost of local architectural, engineering and supervisory
services.  Agreement was reached that the Government would employ
consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Association. They
would be selected in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for use
of Consultants" (Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.)
Procurement
52.       Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be
awarded by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines, excepting civil works contracts costing less than
US$300,000 equivalent each (estimated at US$3.5 million equivalent
including contingencies) and furniture and equipment contracts costing less
than US$100,000 equivalent each (estimated at US$0.8 million equivalent
including contingencies). Such contracts would be awarded following
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank Group; review of tender evaluation documents prior
to award would not be required. Contracts for goods and equipment
estimated to each cost less than US$10,000 equivalent, but not exceeding
US$25,000 in aggregate, would be procured under local shopping procedures.
Architectural sketch designs and school layout proposals, draft tender
documents and master lists of furniture and equipment, including proposed
grouping for all facilities, would be reviewed by the Bank Group and items
grouped to encourage international competitive bidding and permit bulk
procurement. Where ICB is used, domestic manufacturers of furniture and
equipment would be allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent of the
existing applied rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the
c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers, and qualified civil works
contrators would be allowed a preferential margin of seven and one half
percent of the bid prices of competing foreign contractors.  Suitable sites
for two of the three new PTTC's and for the MCA have already been
selected. The Government has also chosen sites, subject to field review by
the Association, for the new secondary school in Lilongwe, the Kasungu PTCC
and the 25 MCC centers.
Disbursements and Audits
53.       Proceeds from the proposed Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 80 percent of total expenditures for civil works and operational
expenditures for project administration; (b) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory, or 80 percent



- 17 -
of local expenditures for locally procured furniture, equipment, vehicles
and transportation of furniture and equipment to school sites, and (c) 100
percent of foreign expenditures or 80 percent of local expenditures for
professional services, technical assistance, fellowships and training. A
schedule of estimated disbursements is provided in the Credit and Project
Summary. The schedule is based on the country average profile used in Bank
Group operations in Malawi. Disbursements for operational expenditures
under project administration, local transportation expenses of furniture
and equipment to school sites, and local training would be made against
statements of expenditure, documentation for which would not be submitted
for review but would be retained by the Government for inspection by the
Bank Group during project supervision. The PIU has satisfactory
institutional capacity in this regard. All other disbursements would be
fully documented. Separate project accounts would be maintained by MOE for
each component. Accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association not later than six months after the end of
the fiscal year (Section 4.01(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). It was agreed that the Governrient would monitor progress and,
not later than six months after the closing date, would prepare and submit
to the Association a full report evaluating the project (Section 3.04(d) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Yollowing procedures established
under previous education projects, semi-annual progress reports on the
project would be submitted to the Bank.
Benefits and Risks
54.       First, the project would improve the quality of primary education
by training an additional 800 primary schoDl teachers per year thereby
helping to redress the deterioration in the student-teacher ratio. The
improved quality of instruction by trained teachers is expected to increase
student completion rates from 23 percent to 32 percent in the 1990's. The
project would also improve output of secondary education by providing
additional secondary school places and by significantly increasing the
number of successful MCC candidates for the junior certificate. The
establishment of the MCA would meet Malawi's needs for trained accountants
and technicians through the 1990's. The technical assistance and training
provided to the Auditor General's office would strengthen and up-grade the
Government's auditing capabilities. The cost-effectiveness studies,
feasibility studies and assistance to MOE's planning unit would help the
Government make more effective use of education funds and improve its
analytical and policy making capabilities.
55.       There may be a risk of insufficient funds for recurrent costs
required for expected improvement and expansion of the education system.
After its completion, the project would generate an additional
US$1.2 million equivalent per annum or around 3 percent of the projected
recurrent budget for education. This amount is relatively small and is
expected to be met from the budget. Howevrer, assuming relatively modest
growth of the education system, the education sector's share of the
recurrent budget is expected to increase to 17 percent in FY90. This level



- 18 -
of expenditure is needed to maintain and improve the quality of Malawi's
education system and is consistent with Government's longer term plans and
projected revenues. Further, as a result of the Government's actions taken
under its structural adjustment program, it is expected that Malawi will
return to a positive GDP growth rate per capita over the next five years.
Agreement was reached that the Government would, on an annual basis,
starting one year from the signing of the Credit Agreement, annually review
with the Association its education budget proposals for a period of four
years to determine their adequacy to carry out Malawi's educational
objectives (Section 3.10 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Malawi and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 8, 1983



-19-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAWI                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             118.5                                     MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTLRAL       41.4                  1960  /b    1970 /b E'TIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       60.0        90.0      -0°                   250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             ..        48.0       67.2                  66.5                    610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUlSANDS)     3419.0       4513.0    6050.0
*                                 URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)        4.4         6.4        9.6                  17.8                     28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            11.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             42.9
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                            28.9        38.1       49.5                  27.7                     54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTLRAL LAND          90.0       114.3      141.7                  86.7                    129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              45.5        46.8       47.3                  44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                             52.1         50.8       48.9                  52.3                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        2.4         2.4        3.8                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.4         2.8        2.9                   2.7                      2.8
URBAN                                   4.5         6.6        7.0                   6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          53.0        51.6       56.1                  47.3                     47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         27.2         23.2       22.4                  19.5                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.4         3.4        3.8                   3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              90.0         91.0       96.0                  88.7                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREXENTS)                       95.2         99.7       96.9/c                90.2                    93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              65.5         71.6       68.2/c                53.1                    54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           13.6         19.0       18.6/c                18.4                    17.0
CUILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          49.3        45.4       39.1                  26.7                    23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        37.2         41.6       44.2                  45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              206.8        193.6      171.9                 129.9                   118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION )
TOTAL                                   ..           ..       33.01d                23.9
URBAN                                   ..           ..       70.0/d                54.9
RURAL                                    ..          ..       29.0//                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          ..         ..                  25.8
URBAN                                   ..           ..       15.0/d                63.1
RURAL                                    ..          ..         ..                  20.2
*                                  PCPULAIION PER PHYSICIAN             35247.4      38429.8   41007.0                32097.3                 14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        12917.6/e    9051.7    3833.7/c                3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                866.0        649.3      743.8                1225.0                  1036.4
URBAN                                115.0/e      155.7      82.2/c                249.5                   430.8
RURAL                               1312.0/e      895.7    1484.4/c               1712.1                  3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..        32.1       39.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..          ..
URBAN                                    ..         3.4/f
RURAL                                    ..         5.0/sg
AVERAGE NUM;BER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..          ..
URBAN                                               1.7/g
RURAL                                                           ..                ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..          ..
URBAN                                    ..        16.0/f
RURAL                                    ..          ..



- 20 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAWI                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE   GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                    ..         35.0      62. 0                  63.2                     83.3
MALE                    ..         45.0       73 0                  72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                  ..         26.0      51.0                   50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          2.0       4.0                   10.2                     15.3
MALE                   1.0          3.0        5.0                  13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 0.3          1.0        2.0                   6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  23.6            2.9        4 . 9                 7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             40.9         43.8      65.0                   47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                           13.7         16.2      21.0                   26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..         22.1/i    25.0                   34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.9          2.2        1.9/d                 3.0                     31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.8/e       23.5      42.6                   34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7           ..        ..                    1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..        5.3                   2.9                     19.1
CINEIMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3            ..        0.3/h                 1.1                      0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1570.3       1981.5    2527.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    38.7         38.1      36.7                   34.1                     36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               92.0         89.0      86.0                   78.4                     56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0          4.0        5.0                   9.2                     0.7                                 (
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 45.9         43.9       41.8                  41.4                     37.0
MALE                                  57.5         55.3       53.6                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                34.8         32.9       30.3                  29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         32.6/i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           50.67.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         10.47I
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS       ..         2i.57T
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     123.0                  134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      99.0                   82.9                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      65.0                   96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       52.0                  60.4                    203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      25.0                   39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      85.0                   69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1976;  /e 1962; If 1967; /g 1972; /h 1975; /i 1966; /4 1968.
May, 1982



-21 -                                                                                          ANNEX I
Mee:Although the data  re drawn fro. souce  genera lly judged the sort authoritativbeean  retahie, It should also bt notd itt  thor  -a  nuIh boort-
satoraly comparable beranee of the lack of  -tedrdleed definitioes and corpt   ed by dtfftereoro                   t    IIt collecting th,e dana.  The data are-,ne-
ehta. eful 1 to   ...rt ob erd-  ofsgorde  indicate treds. ard rih-t-rceire reai  a- dff-ere-ro  b,creeorn.....ee.
Therotenoro   roopuoooll)neoonccnttraroaofthsbectotopsod (2) Ir-nrtryge-cpwth.neh.nigharcea                                      tccn..chc-nrrrgnc
of the suJec  cooryOor or                'g   Incu    lb.Oportee' goon  whore 'Middle lIcore North Africa adidle dart` Io  hcaot b--le cf rer-ger
iort y of the coc_ole   ma i    gonep hoe dais for c1hat idicetne.  Si.tr  te  norceage of con..otoes ant the indic-coc  degende on et  oanahl of dat
and In to  noico  caton w-t h  enern ted tI  e1targu   e-weegr  of o.e iod.icano  en aohr                  eTb  aet,t.ae  arty u.. r, .,In rontoog thecunec
on  idicoo I r  et  ier  mo   tIe Ioanty and referoc   groups.
9b(rhoatrod sqIk.)                                                                            !oAhgP-j)yt     Wd-ttl aocao. cd ruco                              I, Onoeto rtI .1
Total - Tor..  surface arm  -optiuig lard area and inleed  -o-o; 1979 dee,                        eor  edmot  linided by their  .rpcic               -uber,fhrtnlnd
Eoicinel-  rL.at  o  a9tO-ttel.1c Itan oed teweor-rily or ger-natly                      stinl   ngbi   n  rbt    era   n Ila   e   esit  o   e
toe rrpr. gasnoree, sacker oud ki-oha  gerlena e  to lie fallow; 1979 leta.                    3 sbilirtfceeet-s -      lsPintis ace rstahIi.h-atr pecoa-nfy  titfed
GNP ffR CAPITA (US$) - liP per cogito astints at-nrrrt teo   prine.' Ill-                          riatl eel   r  notincluded.  gn,al h-otylel  hem-e, inclde health
cosedb  dun  c-o-riar othod as World WolsAties (1978 -u  basis); 1960,                      _rdedino   canes  n    oesetty   -'I'td by     hocn   (tnbyI
197 1lead 1931 data.                                                                             rtia  assan, -ere  wit, et.)- stein  offe  inptin.,nsr
actor and  enidn e tlkeied rage of   niofcliee                  oo at-
ENERGYi CiONSUPTTION PEi CAF11k - doonal neugIoof csnctleeegy )eeal                                I i-naP  .ar..e. a.III  h.rgltals leninar WHO.r grincIga/garro -1       rgt
aed ion,pnola,eana  gassod,h -yr-, nu-Ir ...w.d g-1ere -Ia tier-                                 .tod  -oelogias          -lao   -or cra  hongitala ned sedi-olead esaterity
necty) ihilogaso  neanqdiulrr                  I. cpiea; L960. i970i. ad 1979                  -teotor.  ipe,ialined h-sgitatsare ti-tudod only and-r noteI
del.-                                                                                          idir on  an  i-sita1 hod- Toatcd-e of Iddwisi... so,n dlo-h-,go
roe. bo.iepltairluided by the Ocober of bred.
Total  Mouetn    id-Yrcteuud)- do of JnIp 1; i960. 197C, and 1980                            OSlObIS
data                                                                                         dOcitieeo   oaeot  pnat  gee honarunld) -ict oran  ad r
Orartb  eato   ferent of t-tl) - datto of arha  to total pogn.ietlon                                                            - oehl   ossso  aeoro   nrtnl  ah   hr  ie0qatr
itetcdef-tainian   of arha  erec  sup affent t-a-aiiicy of data                           ro-d their web  salt.  Aboo-deco .Idir- way  cernteiclddI
p                              awongeonoccior; .-.g 1960,I~7t,. ne  190data.                                                   the ho-rhoto for,ttstt    p.rg.r..
PoP.ItlslnPoeton-nrg   00ro  roranne gee r-oopu-rdtoil, -rhti   -.-nnra9ot-derd-loc
Pntet-Iw PPIn yeary tOl  -.  Itreo   poltet hiorgnnecr   r   ar -dOi19f01                     err ofl W ligeroeeroc   cntuhn -1cdceettngd ncrr
log life engeteoy et hich .o.resog s,b  -oanccy'o gee capita  mine                         oeei   letity(een   fdeien)-ntt  rdn   n   ae
leon1  and fnl   itIcerac    ihilga  71.5 years.T10 guru-                                    Srotl ldrItluis. w-th n .entrf tIy On clot'0"  -oarert ew gt-e-ge
_ecer  for f_t,JIy'rn   10hn   hre,            rut  aeoiog decline to                        eft teta,   bae. oedrurI1 d-rliegn eupn rr
fertIiiyacnr-dLngnulnno-o  te-l and ga_  fewhly ytaoinggetrate
loch ...onniy In char errIgned ire of there nine  -rblnatios of sortilnte               ED7tOTIlhN
ned f-rellty ncendn fcr  ro            ..t.. aroee.                                      AIi.-atd EInIItent Rotice
ttinalua- epuP1iorlnlartucrygol                         he.. is r. growt  none                 PrsaIr- wh col- cruel, sole rod fe.aI. - noor nIno 1. ane urd feealo
the birch rate Is eqaul no the Vdeah ratoe, and_als                                       the ag   notr   e  ererro    lrt   troginary Ierttogrncenar  of rengetlne.
anIrer      _e .  hhot   rieced-"ni  ofre  tertllitey eo...  dart -o  ro                       rivacy ohr-g   gPontiors; ocortly 1           nfruehill-ranngd 6-il
the re" aePill,Iofnetne   epe onto  Ie,eo  dier a-b gracestion                                 years hot adjoterd fe  dif fecet lengths ofgic    dlucefiot; f-e
estmatd n- the bario of thr penjonted obeesteristis ufth   eplconsln  rose Poyilo ac  belos. urben   tho oftIdol1 wohne  ug..
io theyeurl2000.ad therIsnrf d-clioeeoffrE.tililg  ercetorpta                               Iro_darer,h,o,nutsiadfoo-dsuoeatt   nodc
else nul be cer be hd.                                                                         usal   f 12 to 1 Iyruog of age;  cIruonr          -etacen arIgwai
Per so. lo. - 911-yea  gon, to  per  .. sqar  klclt-et   (110 hemrof                        rinootlerinwn  rrena   oofr)-Ottoa                                  rrrln
Itotl area; t19d, 1910 and 1979 dec.lold   ce 1totl.  nnorelal  re othe  patnehich ape.tau  indopoe-
Orr so  ton,agrIcltura  land - Icepoted ow ehere  for  gld         LIMo lade y or at depainwtuct  of .e.oad-ry lnrci-tico-
only;  911, 171 an  1)9 doe-                                                          trttes'errr-rw                ,end we-nod-n- Totol ulndnetn e-cc1d In
rnuarrsn I-trutoe Atrnf- Cttildta  fl-ti grace, noenieg-sge 113-                         gr-ar  o      .d orodury lo-I. diVided hr .tee-u of ntochera in the
64 Poetr.at drrrie .d (65 yeltwoedonr)o- p.erntnnger ofaid-yeuegpopr-                          c_.....o.t.gtne-s..
iritoc; 1960, 1970. lod toil deos.                                                           AjoIr liltrae  -It (peonroti - literate,uo           a (In to- re-a Itl ere-)
poRubtaE    lac  St   pecn)     os  - AbelI gooah earn  of Itoto  All-                           usupe--ente ui coral ede1t yacta-ino  ag,o  tI yten  owl ove.
gapoati-efo  1910-tI, 1161-70, and tig-di.
Po rletdw Ioeh noe. fgrrnae  ~- orhu  - hornet growth cacao  of urhbn pogo-           LiOltI-fTOR
tr-de girth wait, (per Itn_nuad)  ~- hnr  Ire blthn per chau..and of sid-yeu.en-ete   tern  th.oroikht gr--ac; ecue    ooot    hoer...s.and
1,paulinLrut    0 till,  97, end .e0ldleto                                                     nit ioy ntclo
burre let   oe(g tuted) - dontut deaths per tthwo-d  of All-yea                                teliceelor  )gch--ac.   ,,gnta~ti(-)  Alt typer at..e..tt.. fat r-dio
yuato;1960. t9711. ac  1980 data.                                                       hodant  cencu  gblIn per  h..oa.and to g                _rttbu;  _ornoe  to-
lines tanoai t ne -doeAte.,  unnb- of dsegh.tec  a Woa sIll hear in                              1L_cewrc_ti_ots I or_nrireuf en y_sr  oboe rfne Inf colic
hoc   -1oo  -er-d-ni-e perio d if ate ropertennes gesent I -- pg-igetfI  ec_                   urns Wan inefor;data for reetyer  wa              bo   e tepeatbLe alone
tiltlneateeo;us-11t fiVe-ye-e -oegsee  ending It f9Al, 1970, and 1980.                            crnnrtII"en abatlatod icelg
CauyreereAtctgt-ors.         CI   ...uttcorde)     Ioul  aber oenenc                     eerr   pe  hoolnpten)-le  oe,antoetueti to
ofbIth-con.troldv lrcodtlr eu-gitnr of  -oi-1e fantly   lnIgpcewVeea   utt pe  hrnrd                                         pta-ctto  neo auIret.            f  ctore
orA ly lnagn-leers (gmiiofwrrn  Inoo  -                           oPcetg   f nteied          innur  ntad Ic yeansIn  relt.cte  OTOtc  ned II  fet
wonof obtld-beorho   ag !s(14-h  yeas)L'  a neta hitbh-cot-t-   deVices to .wcrrCouehnOe th'ouu"and nor...atl-o                                 S)   -   ionnea-yRegone-
all  arried  -eo    II to _seer air rop.                                                       c_atlan of  daily general ior-rt  -orpgaga". defived uapoeiodinai
-uhllronloaleto.ted eeiwailp no rerord to  "erot   r.  rntroelen
FWDl All) lffITION                                                                                 to ho 'dlay" it It u,Ppe.-a   tense-  f-n  tirerok.
Lodeo of Pool Prodnrytor ree  iatco If iA-71-1ilj - Irden of Per tupilteon -a1                 ienAna   en  ac  a  eos   e   oelnIo   h   aoro
p-od-ninof a1 ni  food Inen    irhs.frdutel-elles teed and feed ndl.                          Iiht   ndlre   h   re   nldnare n   In blot-in   ioa
It  an I.led- yer  host.i     lmrite   oerplu    od  leg.(  sorat                             alo  motile  ela
innee.d ofwea) which Ioe edhle and curtai   -a--ent  (e.g. coffee and
te   r  ocla'ded).  Aogo-lete  -rd-ntlur at tach onnetry Io based en                   LOhri 00001
nai le...eg  P""d'n  prcewights; 19th-65, 1970 , sod 1091 data.                        'a e)b-ocfare(tas-          d)--eradet atir- Portoan, including
fo   -rie  upt of.clca  (ecn  of eretremor) - Gonagted fros                                aene  luccuo   enr-gloced Iul ant loan5gueteo    ndr    h.
.errgy euoeetof net fool tapyIs II          ailable ire tu-etry gr, noplto                     Iar.ecIr.g yunalohion of all  rw hS-    ot it      J.oc   _i_eeto  ne__et   ore
gee day.  b-.eliaht  auppliro  -opelr_  =aeettgcdtia .iPr.tu trno                             not toopseable, lola, 190.1 an  19tO dIrt.
erpucts,anI cugew  ha etat.  Wet wppliler enchoar rel-  feed, seds,                           Female (pencre) - Fesale tIIte fa-e Ir yo--cige of tts IloIrt f-en.
qraree;tieetrhd In rind prnnetrg, -ed tostre it dio rotutiow.  lo quire-                       -alncrggece)-Lhcboecfruf  foccoryehI                               hog a
runt e  ereretimcd by 0A0 baird an phyilclgt-ulneedo Arc noreat ann-                             fiebieg no gectentag  ft-t.co  Iaor Irma; Iol, 10970 and 10908 data
reity ud helith  ...oidreting ra_oee -tal Iogenere, holy esighte. sit                         Indsty Oeen) -L1.1cb-           on f.In wininlg. ...s....too  eanufa-t-ch
e"d uandintcibatilr  of gpuP1tiflu. anI aloin_g 10 ge-nent for canto on                         andclircty  rnn   n  era   eetr  of torah tahb- fE_o
ho-nhold ircl; tollI        19 lOt ord 197d7 data.                       1.                             17  tdllllt. 
Per nootit steely of roanIn Oso-  oar, deg) - potehona_etent of gee  _aita                    Psc"Iea nr   rret) -                       -ctl.tc, and fale2o -rrio tor 
ntwproly of f-d per lay.  Ht  ...gly of fond to demon.  to sort.  ee-                       -ntireityrue   orlotden -cta, male, oak tEelt. luI forc  a
onrwoe forat n1 onnnieo rotabli.huha  by elbA proorde fcc trointa                        rerreor   or nan. aneacfrnaorotsa   fut   rrrIo ter
eltowarrer of Ib-t gra   afcau  grt7t5      e  day -.   enddO  era  afd 2 rewlen               tOll  197,  aol  1991 ota o.1mn  noI_e   o  huyr yta    ae
unmtperano_     n-aer crtewnd, groncred by fluinth -                  nled               dconct  eocdan.Mi  - no-r  ofrglet -eodar ta unO 'c nod areu
P                              b~~~~~~~~~~o~ld Food Sucrey; lOll-OS, t1Oollad 1017 dais.                                      to the nocol tIbar force.
rcd Iron aeti. and pa...se toIgran  per lag;   1I-I5. 1070 ned 1917 data.               IbOCUEt DISTRBUlTION
Child (anew 1-4) ooth urat (re- thou--d) - AlIau1 drefohs per thoueao.d to                     fIIrar   rOrat  lancer   thro   r nant .ca bind) - Re-ni-d by  ih-ros
agegeeupl-b orsru,cochbldcentntbtoagegrang,taososlae -lapiognae                 prrnRtchtr20lperet-t, p-r-oc0 yer-tcy,aed l --aa                    4t gerneot
t.est  deer Inrcafn   tin  tate; lOll, .o.a and    a det,                                     at hosehotde
OtALTPO                                                                                       POVERTY 16111 GRdOUPS
Life S-eent'cy en Brch (ear) - -Aege no-ber of y.... nf life creditIngiTeftolgeuboe   r   ayugcanarror                                                     feret   neo
a ithlet; tAl 00 and 1910  -ao.ad  hobad be l-atcp--te  mtdc ..l d-l icolr eaea._
fofoot wno-lfty    I rep- th  .... d( - Antl deothe of ingfens nede- oar teatr                1blulmare  Amber Pareenlt          rtoa   (aSl ear naeler) -a       a .od moel-I
faiperhansrd lice blrtha; 1910. 1970 and 1991 daea.dtnoepori  lecr beoet ha chat Innuse hote  belcor i w Icha   leewl
tceson  otlcrleco   ferltrn  e'E'. aran.aol ora  -Nn-                                        oeb  owcbidretr   o   ecsoo  tat. nr-fccdrutasnoIs ant
P     of Choir reareti_e ~prpulrh-rs   Ioarreus-b          ae bltc                      Pe-osowl Iacom   of thI ancy   Irhor hnoel is dattod f-n tIre c-el
Partake aroroelpoerlorated ro  sore the  10secfrm5hr.agblvlwIh aljnrseet for htfban Cr--otf lining in e,bee ocet.
anwr=ble soon  woud tiplp that the heanesrife a-  -rmhto  ofthn ho.sb.           l             wlcm I7-;faneb            oglott   (orhan sod rarul) nba Ire 'ohelut
family'. -ete  needa.
pe-rensges of melt.roerc  gplre E.S-tear  dimpe..ulsay inLeled
RIeld e-t- -se  by wsechen b        fse-    or tb  etIf Pit pletn  n  s.
FocLatis  ee  h,stl   Ppgelotlsa diolfed hp r,~orb of raeitgphysi-                                                                 triuu oasd greisl SorePlta
nfae  9anlifitd frem   -di-I -hbow  or unie-mtpt leel.                                                                       I_orrio   olyi  re  .rJa."-.r tap---
..palatgipe grss  Pesos                               byolne  Iol I  ese If psratitgag                                                          tOy 1387
me.mdfemle  r1tsers   mleu  esca,derec   rr os  a
so .Reg aerllmrgm.



-22 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONCMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRIDUCT IN 1981                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GRDWTH
(%, constant prices)
U$ Mn.   %                          1973-1980          1981
GNP at Market Prices           1,257.5   100.0                        5.1            -1.3
Gross Domestic Investment        255.3    20.3                        8.1           -25.9
Gross National Saving             89.0     7.1                       -2.8           -10.8
Current Account Balance        -166.3   -13.2                          -               -
Exports of Goods, NFS            341.7    27.2                        6.0            -2.5
Imports of Goods, NFS            433.6    34.5                        0.5           -16.2
ca=PUT, EMPLOYMENT AND
PRODUCTIV=rY IN 1981
Value Added             Labor Force             V.A. Per Worker
U   M1n.       X         mousand      %              US$    % of Ave.
Agriculture                      477.1      39.5        2,798.7     93.3            170.5     42.2
Industry                         221.9      18.4          85.8       2.9         2,586.3    642.7
Services                        508.4       42.1         116.1       3.9         4,378.9  1,088.2
Total                       1,207.4     100.0       3,000.6    100.0            402.4    100.0
GOVERNMEN  FINANCE                                                   Central GCoverrnent
(K MLn.)               % of GDP
1980/81     1980/81   1977/78-1979/80
Current Receipts                                                199.2        16.8          17.0
Current Expenditure                                             183.7        15.5          14.8
Current Surplus                                                  15.5         1.3           2.2
Capital Expenditures                                            174.9        14.7          12.0
External Assistance (net)                                        83.3         7.0           9.5
MONEY, CREDTT and PRICES                                     1977       1978        1979       1980      1981
(Million K outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Mbney                                     122.7      133.2       144.7      177.9     218.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                              44.2        61.9       96.4       128.3     206.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                              87.7      122.3      170.8       182.4     191.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Mbney and Quasi Money a % of GDP                           17.0       16.9        16.6       17.9      18.4
Implicit GDP deflator (1978=100) Annual Percentage
changes in:                                      99.9       100.0      102.7       114.9     137.6
Implicit GDP deflator                                      12.8        0.1        2.7        11.9      19.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                6.1        7.9       11.0        12.9      17.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                              12.2       15.6       19.6        18.3      16.1
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this Annex are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
May 1982



- 23 -
ANNE( I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMS AND CAPTL F0'
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                            H.TXHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-1981)
1977    1978    1979    1980   1981                             U$ Fn.       %
(Mi liosm U$ 0
Tobacco                 123.0    45.5
Exports of Goods, NFS             241.8  220.1  256.7  341.3  341.8         Tea                      36.4    13.5
Imports of Goods, NFS             279.1  387.5  465.5  508.2  433.6         Grouninuts               14.2      5.3
Resource Balance                 -37.3 -167.4 -208.8 -166.9 -91.8           Sugar                    46.1    17.1
All Other Commodities    50.6    18.7
Total                   270.3   100.0
Factor Payments (net)             -25.5   -4.7  -42.6  -52.1  -70.4
Net Current Transfers Private       5.5    5.9   -0.4   -6.4  -4.1          EXTERNAL DEBT, DECaMBER 31, 1981
Balance on Current Account       -57.3 -166.2 -251.8 -225.3 -]66.3
U$ MTn.)
Direct Private Foreign                                                      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    687.0
wnvestment                       5.5    9.7   13.5        5.9    6.0a   Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Net MLT BorroKIr                                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed  687.0
Disbursements                    99.7   135.7  125.4  159.9  124.1
Amortizations                    15.3   18.7    19.3   32.9    36.2    NET DEBT SERvICE RATIOP for 1981
Subtotal                         84.4   117.0   106.1   127.0    87.9
Capital Grants                     19.9   38.9   46.6    50.0    49.9
Other Capital (net)               -6.9  -29.4    44.3   35.8  -17.4
Other Items n.i.e.                 12.3   11.9   29.9   15.8   19.2    Public Debt, Incl. guaranteed          26.1
Increase in Reserves (+)         +57.9  -18.1  -11.4   +9.2  -20.7    Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed     26. 1
Gross Reserves (end year)          84.4   72.2   63.2   72.8   55.8b
IBRD/IDALeending, Dec. 31, 1981
Petroleum Imports                  23.7   30.1   46.8   55.0   47.2a   (Kn U$)
Petroleun Re-exports                 -      -       -       -        -                               IBRD      IDA
(Inc. Third
RATE OF EXCHAN                                                                                     Window)
UE$ - K                            .9029  .8437  .8169  .8121  .8953    Outstand1irg & Disbursed  52.3   145.1
K 1 - U$                          1.1075  1.1853  1.2241  1.2314  1.1169   Undisbursed               22.9   109.1
Outstandring including
Undisbursed            75.2   254.2
a  Estimate.
b  Through September 1981.
Ic  Ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and non-factor services excluding repayments to IMF.
Not avazlable
Not applicable                                                                May 1982



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1982)
Bank
incl.
Loan or                                                         Third             Un-
Credit No.  Year      Borrower   Purpose                       Window    IDA disbursed
Five loans and 16 credits have been fully disbursed              71.20  120.93    -
711-MAI    1978      Malawi      Water Supply                            7.00    2.48
823-MAI    1978        "         Shire Valley
Consolidation                         10.70      .32
1610-MAI    1978      INDEBNANK  First DFC                        3.00             1.14
857-MAI    1979      Republic   National Rural Development
of Malawi   Program I                              22.00    8.64
910-MAI    1979        "         Education III                          14.50    5.64
992-MAI    1980                  National Rural Development
Program II                            13.80    8.89
1099-MAI    1981                  Highway IV                             33.00a  16.13
1123-MAI    1981        "         Education IV                           41000b  31.15
2027-MAI    1981        "         Technical Assistance            1.00              .81
1183-MAI    1981        "         National Rural Development
Program III                            7.30c   7.06
1272-MAI    1982                  Lilongwe Water Supply Eng.
Project                                4.00d   4.00
TOTAL                                               75.20  274.23   86.26
of which has been repaid                              .77    3.39
(amount sold)
(of which repaid)
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA1                     74.43  270.84
TOTAL undisbursed                                    1.95   84.31   86.26
a Credit of SDR 25.9 million.
b Credit of SDR 32.2 million.
c Credit of SDR  6.5 million.
d Credit of SDR  3.6 million (not yet effective).



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. IFC INVESTMENT IN MALAWI
December 31, 1982
Investment
Number      Year      Obligor
326-MAI    1976/    David Whitehead       Textiles      -     10.8  10.8   7.4   1.7
618-MAI    1982      & Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-MAI    1977      Dwangwa              Sugar        -       9.9   9.9   8.8   -
Sugar Corporation
Limited
434-MAI    1978      Investment and       Development  0.6    -      0.6   0.6   -
Development Bank    FinancE
of Malawi            Company
502-MAI    1979      Malawi               Tourism      -       2.0   2.0   2.0   1.6
Hotels Limited
543-MAI    1981/    Ethanol Company       Manufactur-
614-MAI    1982      Limited of           ing Alcohol
Malawi               from
Molasses     0.2    2.2   2.4   2.4   -
TOTALS     0.8   24.9  25.7  21.2   3.3
t



_    - 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
December 31, 1982
Credit No. 711-MAI            Blantyre Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million
Credit of June 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
April 18, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Initial delays in project implementation occurred due to revision of
the project's scope, but implementation is now proceeding reasonably well.
Detailed engineering is complete and awards have been made on all the contracts
being financed by the Association.   However, due to the initial delay, the Bank
has agreed to a postponement of the closing date to September 30, 1983.   BWB has
also, with the help of the Bank, reassessed its financial position and agreed on a
revision of the covenanted rates of return because of slower-than-anticipated
growth in water demand, a reduced need for debt service, and higher rates of
revaluation of fixed assets than used at appraisal.
Credit No. 758-MAI            Third Highway Project; US$10.5 Million Credit of
January 18, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 29,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of constructing the 52-mile Kasungu-Jenda road to
two-lane bituminous surfaced standard; strengthening three short sections of the
Zomba-Lilongwe road (parallel financed by the OPEC Special Fund); and providing
consultant services for the supervision of the road, construction, and for the
feasibility and engineering studies of the Jenda-Mzuzu road. Construction works
on the Kasungu-Jenda road, strengthening works on the Zomba-Lilongwe, and the
studies for the Jenda-Mzuzu road are complete. Final disbursement is underway and
the Credit will be closed shortly.
Credit No. 823-MAI            Shire Valley Agricultural Consolidation Project;
US$10.7 Million Credit of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: September 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is the consolidation phase of the Shire Valley Agricultural
Development Program and includes extension services to support increased cotton
and foodcrop production, seed multiplication and afforestation programs,
production credit, livestock and fisheries development, health and potable water
supply facilities, a smallholder irrigation development study and some rural
roads.  It has provided social and infrastructure services to about 70,000
families.  The Valley attained self-sufficiency in food crops for the first time
in its history in 1977/78.  Crop production targets, with the exception of guar
beans, have not yet been reached.  Ongoing project works have been recently
completed.  An adequate extension ratio has been reached. The Credit will be closed
shortly.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
loan No. 1610-MAI             Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited;
US$3.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness:  November 1, 1978; Closing Date:
July 1, 1983
The project provides foreign exchange for financing medium- to
large-scale projects in industry and agro-industry and agriculture and is helping
INDEBANK consolidate its policies and strengthen its capabilities in project
promotion, appraisal, implementation and follow-up. The line of credit is now
fully committed; and as of April 20, 1982, disbursements amounted to US$1.23
million and are expected to be completed shortly.
Credit No. 857-MAI            National Rural Development Program,
Phase I; US$22.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 5, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is assisting the GovErnment in implementing the first phase
of Malawi's National Rural Development Program. Over a five-year period it aims
to increase output of maize, groundnuts, fire-cured tobacco and rice, and expand
milk and meat production. The project has E.lso improved basic services (water
supplies, roads and health facilities). It is strengthening the Ministry of
Agriculture's Central Service and four exist:ing Management Units and has
established eight new development project areas. It is also completing the
consolidation phase of the Lilongwe Land Development Program. The project is
cofinanced by CIDA, DEG, EDF, and ODA. It is proceeding satisfactorily except for
recurrent financing problems which have been addressed by the First Structural
Adjustment Loan. The entire NRDP program was jointly reviewed by IDA and
Government in FY1982 and recommended change, are being introduced to improve its
cost-effectiveness.
Credit No. 910-MAI            Third Education Project; US$14.5 Million Credit of
EEC Credit No. 12-MAI         June 19, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  September 4,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in improving and expanding
primary and secondary education and management of education.  Its major components
include self-help constructing of primary s2hools, improving and expanding primary
and secondary teacher training schools, providing primary school textbooks;
expanding technical education; establishing an Institute of Education; assisting
school inspectorates; and providing for educational studies. An EEC Special
Action Credit of US$7.5 million was made available to the project. Implementation
is proceeding well and on time, although sone delays have been experienced in the
components for commercial education, primary school construction and educational
studies. The Institute of Education has begun to function. A large number of
textbooks have been delivered to schools. Vehicles have been delivered to school
inspectorates. A specialist has initiated the educational studies. The EEC
Credit has been fully disbursed.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Credit No. 992-MAI            National Rural Development Program,
Phase II (Wood Energy); US$13.8 Million Credit of
April 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is assisting the Government in its long-term energy
development program aimed at increasing forest resources. It has established a
national network of about 80 nurseries to produce seedlings for sale to
smallholders, who are being encouraged to establish their own woodlots; fuelwood
and pole plantations to help meet increasing demands from the commercial and
industrial sectors, as well as from urban dwellers; and an Energy unit in the
Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources. Seedling sales to farmers, which has
been going more slowly than expected, have now picked up. Overall, the project is
proceeding on schedule.
Credit No. 1099-MAT           Fourth Highway Project; US$33.0 Million Equivalent
(SDR 25.9 million) Credit of February 20, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: July 16, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in developing the economic
potential of the northern region by constructing and improving the only remaining
sections of the principal north-south road. In addition, the project will promote
the maintenance of the main, secondary and district road networks and provide
consultant services and training.  The construction of the major paved road
sections plus improvements of the existing road between Luwawa Turnoff and Mbowe
to a low gravel standard is progressing satisfactorily and implementation of other
components is well underway; the maintenance study and the DRIMP extension study
are about to be completed.
Credit No. 1123-MAI           Fourth Education Project; US$41.0 Million Equivalent
(SDR 32.2 million) Credit of March 26, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: October 2, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project is assisting the Government in improving and expanding secondary
education and the training of secondary school teachers. Five new secondary
schools are being constructed and equipped, and six existing secondary schools
expanded. Additional boarding and teaching facilities of Chancellor College are
being built and equipped. In addition, the project is assisting the Government in
the preparation of a national education plan to provide the basis for future
development of the education system. The study is underway and expected to be
finished in September 1983. Satisfactory progress is being made in constructing
the secondary schools and at Chancellor College.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 2027-MAI             Technical Assistance Project; US$1.0 Million
Equivalent Loan of June 25, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: September 30 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
The project, which complements the Structural Adjustment Loan, is
helping finance consultant services for studies of the livestock, meat and dairy
industries.  The Malawi Development Corporation's financial position and export
marketing capabilities is also being examined and strengthened. Other studies
are being carried out as needed to support the Structural Adjustment Program.
After initial delays, the MDC and livestock studies have been completed and the
results will be available for Bank review and ccnmient in March. In addition, the
Government has carried out a study of the Agricultural Development and M4arketing
Corporation to address the major organizational, financial and managerial
constraints hindering its performance.  It has also employed a firm of consultants
to help develop a restructuring package for thE major private enterprise. A plan
of action is being developed which is expected to be available for Bank review and
commzent in April.
Credit No. 1183               National Rural Development Program (NRDP) Phase IIl
Project; US$7.3 Million Credit (SDR 6.5 million) of
October 13, 1981; Date of Effectivenessi May 28,1982;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project constitutes a third phase of the Karonga-Chitipa Rural
Development Project as part of the activities o: the National Rural Development
Program. As such it will benefit from the expe-ience and lessons of previous
years. The project will, over a four-year period (1981/82-1984/85), strengthen
project management capabilities, continue to suDport the development of the
agricultural production potential of the Karonga and Chitipa districts and
strengthen agricultural extension, training, research and credit and marketing
facilities. It also contains provision for improving water supply and for
improved management and evaluation of project a^tivities. The project has
experienced start-up implementation difficulties with regard to management9 input
supplies (fertilizer) and staffing shortfalls. To improve the situation,
Government has recently appointed a new management team. and is addressing fully
the fertilizer requirement for the FY83/84 and subsequent crop seasons.
Credit No. 1272               Lilongwe Water Supply and Engineering Credit;
US$4.0 million Credit (SDR 3.6 million) of
June 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: February 3,
1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The three-year project is financing master plan studies to det_rmine
the optimum long-term program for water supply and sewerage/sanitation development
in Lilongwe and identify a water supply project that would form the program's
first phase.  The latter project is the subject of the feasibility study, detailed
engineering design and the preparation of contract documents, T'he project is
preceeding satisfactorily. The Lilongwe Water Board has appointed an
engineer/manager and is in the process of recruiting a chief accountant.
Engineering consultants have been selected to carry out the master plan,
feasibility studies and engineering designs; contract negotiations are underway.






IBRD 16689
3'2                                 >                                  34~                                                                     3e        OCTOBER 1QS2
TCDares,haloo    L -                                 _             x                                       M  A LAWA I
"3( $r>o~~sako   'i                            -\                       FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
>   ONgSten9o       \                                     PrimrrryTeacherTra ning Colleges
°0            ,. M-law   College ofAcc ountancy
l.-'N >           ,     P                         Maciwv Correspondence Coilege
N     0-~~            a a 0Headquarters
One Stream  Satel ite Centers
i   t   \OCSrikttg (  z                   Two Streamr Satellite Centers
-y  p   (            Secondary Sclools
.               °Lilingstenlo     k                           PrincoIal roads
<'  Kgtowo   oM,h) lu <      t      D                   ~~~Ra lways
aeoc R,          1                                      zn-- Risers
'S j      °         /J3tt       '           {                     ----Regionai bounacir es
V I  O'RTERI H                                             ---Internar.onal bourdares
noOnEN-      L  " '2
{                                                            t   /-            f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mz,,n,0   9L.,n,gi  ,Ey . i
oSt.A ugttitn           !
ZA  M   B  I A    2                            ~            (/-
) Ma,n,oo      OLuwel-0                   j(MALAWI)
-12'                                             I2 ;                              C    hI/1'-
' 7  <AQ    >        j         N                 KILCMETERS 0    20    40    0C   h0  l0
./n             \e.   ', 7                    .                     MLS0            20        40         60
(   A/ F              A  2          A  nO.'
.  .: ,                      \                                            O         A  M    B  I Q  u  E
R, G /ON N
0t1Iongv ve '                \A_
Ci2-      2                                  5%lima   j bo key\
~~  unOtn0                               JWoMoD.nkny-0 
-a-  AKholatX                                         |  aLD;.;N;  b
Thin mf-p ha.  boet prepared by thC                                                           Ntonda   ( o S,   UR
World Bank's staff e-close-ly for                                                            )I   ° '         I               _
tee  niene f the -readar of C
the report to 5h5oh t  a. ttached                                                                         m\,          ndn               /
The den-r,at,nns used and the
d ro   py, othe par of              M              Z    A     M   B    I      U        Eoo  
wOrd Sank and -to athhatot, any                                                            aJ/                                    N5'
judgment on the lega/ status of                                                            ;                      om5.
any trtoyot arn,-y endorseen                                                            r.a'           4              0 - /,.
-or2 arneptanr nfo anuSa.' h,nae                                                           OMaz               l ;   cez 
ru                                    n1Cko,>   /-jn,rn   's5.       TuTee          ,    NromeT          L
i R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                           o                                                      0I
/  Xi  0S > r                          <                            >  ChiroNm/         2
NAF T NA<>< 0 j2 Mv4DAGAS AR 'N                                             .\                  Tnskon, 
j,  r.....                                    -16'              C~~0  s',        Ck-   o\
!   ZASFOR S THA  \            A A,                                         eo
A O         -, ; -.   ,     '-|    f4                                                                       To 3
Z__ __ _ _ A_ __ __M  _ __ _ _ __ _ __  __I_    _   A                                                         .2



