OFFICIAL
DOCVUMENTS      DIT NU1MBER 1330 MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Fifth Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         CL                     1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1330 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                , 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "MOE" means the Ministry of Education and Culture of
the Borrower;
(b)  "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit of MOE
referred to in Section 3.01 to this Agreement.
(c) "MCC" means the Malawi Correspondence College; and
(d) "MCA" means the Malawi College of Accountancy.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curre -
cies equivalent to thirty million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 30,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1988,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1993, and ending Feb-
ruary 1, 2033, each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, educational and planning
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose. To this end, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain PIU in existence with the responsibili-
ties described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
and
(ii) ensure that PIU shall employ a Project Manager, a
Senior Architect, a Senior Procurement Officer and
a Financial Controller, all of whose qualifica-
tions and experience shall be acceptable to the
Association, and such other staff as shall be
necessary to carry out the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and


﻿-4-
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such con-
sultants and experts to be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execu-
ting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall, prior to carrying out the studies
described in Part E (i), (ii) and (iii) of the Project, prepare
and furnish to the Association, for its approval, the terms of
reference including estimated costs and time table of said stu-
dies.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association, at
regular intervals, all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿- 5 -
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by, the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Pioject and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1983, prepare and furnish to the Association a detailed
plan acceptable to the Association for the training of staff of
the Teacher Training Colleges included in the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1983, or such later date as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, appoint to MCC a deputy principal and
five additional specialists to be responsible for preparing and
revising subject study materials.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1983, appoint to the Auditor General's office an audit
specialist whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1983, prepare and furnish to the Association a detailed
plan, acceptable to the Association, for the training of Malawian
accountancy teachers.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall review, jointly with the
Association, about one year from the date of this agreement and
thereafter annually for a period of four years, its education
budget proposals, to assess the extent to which the Borrower's
educational objectives are adequately met.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accor-
dance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices, the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower res-
ponsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof (the
Project Accounts).
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the Project Accounts for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Cre-
dit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other inform-
ation concerning said accounts, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all measures required to ensure adequate operation, maintenance,
repair and renewal of the facilities and equipment provided under
the Project in accordance with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial and educational practices and shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, services and other re-
sources required for this purpose.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date             3,\pri '  1M'3  , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 30049
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                              4407 MI
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /5/ J v -
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
,mounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Civil works              16,910,000           80%
(2) Furniture                 1,080,000
(a) Directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of local
factured (ex-                           expenditures
factory cost)
(c) locally pro-                             80%
cured but
previously
imported
(d) local                                    80% of local
transport                               expenditures
(3) Equipment and             1,550,000
Vehicles
(a) Directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of local
factured (ex-                           expenditures
factory cost)
(c) locally pro-                             80%
cured but
previously
imported


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(d) local                                    80% of local
transport                               expenditures
(4) Architectural               850,000           100% of foreign
Engineering and                                  expenditures
auditing Con-                                and 80% of
sultant Services                             local expendi-
tures
(5) Technical Assis-          1,370,000           100% of foreign
tance and Studies                            expenditures
and 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(6) Training and                890,000           100% of foreign
Fellowships                                   expenditures
and 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(7) Project Admin-              260,000           80%
istration (ex-
cluding salaries)
(8) Unallocated               7,990,000
TOTAL         30,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
3.   Disbursements under Categories (2) (d), (3) (d), (6) (local
training only) and (7) may be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure which shall be in the forms and shall contain infor-
mation satisfactory to the Association.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in res-
pect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to improve the Borrower's primary
education, to expand the output of secondary level educational
institutions, to increase the number of trained accountants and
accounting technicians and to strengthen management of the Bor-
rower's education and auditing systems.
Part A:   Primary Teacher Training
(i) Construction, furnishing and equipping of three primary
teacher  training  colleges   at  Domasi, Kasungu    and
Karonga, and expansion of the existing St. Joseph's
Teacher Training College at Bembeke, to provide for a
total of about 1,560 new student places, including
teaching and boarding facilities, as well as staff
houses.
(ii) Training of teaching staff for the colleges referred to
in (i) above.
Part B:   Correspondence Education
(i) Construction, furnishing and equipping of about 25 MCC
Centers to serve about 2,960 students.
(ii) Renovation   and   expansion  of   MCC  headquarters  at
Blantyre, including provision of equipment, furniture
and staff houses, and construction and furnishing of
two staff houses at Lilongwe and Mzuzu.
(iii) Training of MCC staff, including in-service training
of MCC's headquarters and Center staff, about 9 man-
years of fellowships and participation in international
correspondence education conferences.
(iv) Improvement of MCC's     evaluation  activities  through
the provision of about two man-years of technical
assistance.


﻿- 13 -
Part C:   Secondary Education
(i) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a new
secondary school in Lilongwe District providing
for 480 student places, including teaching and
boarding facilities as well as staff,houses.
(ii) Renovation, expansion, furnishing and equipping of
Livingstonia Secondary School to ,increase its
capacity to 480 student places.
Part D:   Accountancy Education
(i) Construction, furnishing and equipping of teaching
and boarding facilities as well as staff houses
for MCA on the grounds of the Malawi Polytechnic
in Blantyre to provide a total of about 215 stu-
dent places.
(ii) Training of Malawian accountants through provision
of about 8 man-years of technical assistance for
MCA.
(iii) Training of Malawian accountancy teachers through
the provision of about 20 man-years of fellowships
for Malawian accountancy teachers.
Part E:   Studies, Evaluation and Auditing
(i) A feasibility study on the establishment of non-
boarding secondary schools.
(ii) A review of costs and management of the primary
school self-help construction program to determine
its cost effectiveness.
(iii) Evaluation of the Borrower's educational system
and preinvestment studies for proposed future pro-
jects.
(iv) Strengthening of MOE's planning and management
capacity through the provision of about 10 man-
years of fellowships to its Planning Unit and
about 8 man-years of fellowships to PIU.


﻿-14-
(v) Strengthening of the Borrower's Auditor General's
office through the provision of about 3 man-years
of technical assistance and about 6 man-years
fellowships.
Part F:   PIU Technical Assistance
1.   Strengthening PIU's accounting capability through the provi-
sion of about 5 man-years of technical assistance.
2.   Provision of about 18 man-years of technical services to PIU
[financed   by  the   Danish   International   Development   Agency
(DANIDA),] for the implementation of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1988.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Responsibilities of PIU
1.   Under the direction of MOE, the PIU shall, inter alia:
(a) coordinate and integrate all Project activities with
the ministries, departments and agencies of the Borrower partici-
pating in the carrying out of the Project;
(b) correspond with the Association on technical and other
matters related to the Project;
(c) prepare a comprehensive project implementation schedule
for approval by the Association and update said schedule to
ensure the timely implementation of the Project;
(d) in collaboration with other concerned agencies of the
Borrower, select consultants and specialists, prepare their terms
of reference, and administer their contracts;
(e) in collaboration with other agencies of the Borrower,
select fellowship recipients and prepare training programs to be
financed under the Project;
(f) monitor the progress of studies, plans and new curri-
cula related to implementation of the Project;
(g) prepare lists of furniture, equipment and materials for
the project;
(h) prepare invitations to bid and arrange for review of
tenders and award of contracts relating to the Project;
(i) arrange for the regular inspection of all construction
works;
(j) ensure the appropriate training and upgrading of PIU
staff;
(k) maintain records and accounts and prepare for presenta-
tion to the Association through proper channels applications for
withdrawals from the Credit Account; and


﻿- 16 -
(1) prepare progress reports to be furnished to the Asso-
ciation within two months after each semi-annual period ending
March 31 and September 30.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
4.   To the extent practicable and consistent with appropriate
technical standards and procurement practices contracts for civil


﻿- 18 -
works, furniture and equipment shall be grouped for purposes of
bidding so as to permit international procurement.
5.   Bidders for civil works under the *roject shall be prequali-
fied as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Malawi may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured   in
Malawi if the bidder shall have established to the
satiSfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that tie manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Malawi equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 19 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established
by the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular
firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The
bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.


﻿- 20 -
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts estimated to cost less than $300,000
equivalent and contracts for furniture and equipment estimated to
cost less than $100,000 shall be procured following competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures accept-
able to the Association.
2.   Contracts for goods and equipment estimated to cost less
than $10,000 equivalent but not exceeding in aggregate $25,000
equivalent may be procured on a local shopping basis.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review  of  prequalification. The   Borrower   shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility
for domestic preference under Part C above and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Bor-
rower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
2.   Architectural sketch designs for civil works and master
lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles, including proposed
grouping, shall be submitted to the Association for its review
and all the items procured shall be substantially in conformity
with the designs, lists and specifications so approved.
3.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and all contracts for
furniture and equipment estimated to cost $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed


﻿- 21 -
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as     the Association   shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request.      The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
4.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prompt-
ly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
5.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform


﻿- 22 -
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons ther    -. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would b. tconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 ,-.
Ri  S
FOR SECRETARY


