Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12236-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 24, 1995
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



FISCALI, YEAR
Jani iary I t(l DIccencber 31
CUIRRLN( Vk ANI) ItKtIlV&IJt.N(UY UNITS
l  frllalty I11ltl - Peso (('o)S)
-laCI1:Lnge Rirw (D)c,riinlhcr 31. 11494
IiS$l .1)   &ol$ XM)
WF:l(IIi'Ni ANI) MEll'ASLURE-S
Mrlric Symeem
(;II)S.SARV  OF AEIRIR VIAiIONS
AOP           -      Annual ()lOraling Plan (Illal AnFIal de Operaciones)
AWP                  Annilall Work Plan (IlIan Anuial de Ttabajo)
CENICAFI-             Center lor ('olfee lwcslitiation (Centro de
lIv-esligiAciies de Yal)
CENICANA   -         Center tzir Sugar ('ane Investigation (Centro de
Investigaci6n de la Cafua)
CCTA          -      Colombian Corporation for Agricultural Investigation
(CorixoracitIn Colombiana cle investigaci6r.
Agropccuarla)
CGIAR         -      Ctonsultative (roup on International Agricultural
Research
CIAT          -      Internatinnal C'eniter lor'lTropical Agriculture (Centro
Intcracional de AgriculluraT ropical)
CIIVMY F             Internationial ('enter for the Improvement of Corn and
Wheat (Ce"cnrn IntL-racitntal dle Mejoramiento de Maiz
y Trigu)
CIP                  Inteantal Ceittr br 1w(itatoLes (Centro Internacional
der la l'.lia)
flNP          -      National l)irarlioerit ol l'laniitig (D)epartamento
Nacional de L'laneacitSit)
D)RI                 Fund for Rural l)cvelopnicnit (londo de Cofinanciaci6n
para la lnteroion Rural)
FEDIjARROZ           National 1E -deration of Rice (iravers (Eiceraci6n dc
Arrriwei:esj 
HIlMATr       -      ('olon10t1hian Institu1te tlF Flydrology, Meteorology and
I and Plreparation (Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia.
Miceorologfa y Adecuacidn de 'ITierras)
IC,                  C'olombian Agricultural Iislitute (Instituto Colombiano
Agropccia rio)
MCU                  'The Manageenicnit aaed Cooirdination tUnit (llnidad de
Adjtinistraci6in y C(oordinaci6n)
MCA           -      Ministrv of Agriculture (Ministerio de Agricultura)
RDIP          -      Rural t)evelopment Investment Vrogram (Programa de
Diksarrollo !nlegral Carnpesino)
SINTAP        -      National SystCm for Agricultural Technology Transfer
(Sistema Naciondl para Transferencia de lEcnologia
Agrkcola)
UMATA         -      Municipal tlnit fbr Agriciulttiral Assistance
(ltinidad Municipal de Asistencia Agropecuaria)
FENAILCO    -        National Association of Merchants
(Fcderaci6n Nacionlal de Comerciantes)
IDB           -      Inter-Amnerican Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Dlesarrolo)
PCR           -      Projcct Completion Report
(Informe Final de Proyceto)
NGO           -      Non Government Organizations
(Organiraeiones no Gubernarnentales)
ICB           -      International Competitive Bidding
(Iicitaci6n Pub:ica lnternacional)
LI B          -      Limited Iniernational B3idding
(I icitaci6n Intornacional Limitada)



COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT BRO3ECr
Contents
Page No.
LQAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY                         .....................  Hi
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECIR  ......................  1
Structure and Performance               .......................  I
PNtential for AgricultFiral Production Growth  .............  2
The Small Farmers-Contributions and Constraints .......... 2
2. AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
AND EXTENSION  ...............  3
Backgxound  ............                                                 3
National System for Agricultu-a  ThchnOlogyi                             4
Colombian Agricultu-a Research Institute (ICA) ........... 5
DR andExtension ............................. 6
Bank Strategy in the Agrcultual Sector and Support for
Agricultural lbchnology  ..................... 6
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvenent  ...............  7
Rationale for Banklmt ......................                             7
3. THE PROJECT  ................................. 9
Objectives and Desciption  ...........                           ..... 9
Detled Features: Technology Development and ; paion ...                 10
Detailed Featus: Instituiional Development ............  11
Stas of Preparation: Project Year One (Including 1995
Investment Subprojects) .....................  14
ProjectCosts  ...............................  15
Project Financing .............................  15
Procurement ................................  16
Disbursements .........................8......  i
AccountingandAuditing ........................  19
4. PROJECTr  MPLEMENTATION  .........                     .............  21
Organization and Management .....................  21
Operational Manual ............................ 21
The Executive Council ..........................  21
TheManagementCoordinationUnit  ......2...........  22
TheNationalPanel ............................ 23
Regional Panels and Coordinati   .......23............  23
Pwcessing Subpnrects JLr2nanced Under the Project  ....3....  2
Prparing Annual Operating and Work    ............P.                    25
Environmental Inpact, Evaluation, Monitring, and
Supervision   .........            ..................  25
5. BENEr[ ANRIK .......................... .28



- ii -
Bfsefits ...................................  28
Risks      .................................... 28
Pro      jectSustainabbiity .......................... .29
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....... 30
ANNEXES:
Page No.
Annex 1.   Loan and Project Summary Costs  ............... 32
Annex 2.   Project Summary Costs byYe  .................Y.          33
Annex 3.   Funds Flow Chart fo; National Agricultwal
Ibcbnology lTansferPrgm  .................. 34
Annex 4.   Definitions  ............................. 35
Annex 5.   Subproject Application Form for Cofinancing  ...   ..... 36
Annex 6.   Checist for Subproject Supervision
and Evaluation Reports .......     ............... 41
Annex 7.   Organization Chart for National Agricultural
lbchnology Tlansftr Program .................. 43
Annex S.   Key Indicators fbrtheProject .44
Annex 9. Audit Requirements .45
Annex 10.   Criteria for Subproject Selection .47
Annex 11.   Environmental Checklist and Key Screening
and Monitoring Factors .52
Annex 12.   Draft Terms of Refrrence for Technical Assistance  ..... 54
Anmex 13.   Schedule for Project Implementation and Supervsion .... 56
Annx 14.   Selected Documents and Data Aalable in
the Project File ........................... 59
Mvap IBRD No. 25401



- iii -
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOIMPENT PROJECr
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMIMRY
Borrower:                Republic of Colombia
Implementing Agency:    Management and Coordination Unit
in the Ministry of Agriculture
Beneficiaries:           Farmers (majority small), growers associatons,
universities, private sector, Departmental
Agricultural Secretariats, and municipalities.
Poverty:                 Program of targeted interventions. The project
is expected to assist in raising incomes among
s,mall farmers, whose productivity is below
ave rage fir the sector, a group that includes the
majority of Colombiis poor
Amount:                  US$51.0 million equiwalent
Tenrs:                   Tb be repaid in 17 years, including 4 years of
grace, at the Banks standard variable interest
rae.
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Fiaancing Plan:          See pta. 3.21.
Net Present VaTie:       Not calculated - the project finances research
and institutional stngthening.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 12236-CO
Map:                     IBRD No. 25401



COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Structure and Performance
1.1        In 1992, agriculture, fisheries, and forestry accounted for
about 22 percent of GDP for Colombia, provided employment for 30 percent
of the labor force (three million people) and contributed about two-thirds of
merchandise exports. Coffee accounted for about 13 percent of agricultural
GDP (and about 47 percent of total agricultural exports); other permanent
crops for 33 percent, annual crops for 19 percent, and livestock for 35
percent. Coffee exports, as a proportion of total agricultural exports, have
remained fairly constant over the last two decades, but some diversification
has occurred within non-coffee exports, which now include flowers and
bananas. Growth of agricultural GDP in Colombia averaged 4.8 percent a
year during 19780, but slowed during 1980-92 to 3.2 percent a year
reflecting both weakening demand for Colombia's agricultural exports and
faliing international prices.
1.2         Colombia has a total land area of 114 million hecares (ha) of
which some 33 million ha (29 percent) are considered suitable for agriculture
(14 million ha for crops and 19 million ha for livestock). Of this area, about
27 million ha are presently under cultivation, yet crop production accounts
for only about 4 million ha (29 percent of the total area potentially usable for
cropping) and for about 23 million ha in livestk. Of the ten million ha
suitable for rain-fed production, about seven million ha are in sloping areas
in the Andean foothills and are primarily used for permaLnent crops to
mhinimiz erosion problems. Another three million ha are in flatlands,
primrily in the coastal areas.
1.3        In Colombia, three typical farming practices prevail. Modem
agriculture, located primarily on flat and relatively more fertile lands. This
type of frming, with its capita-intensive technology and higher productivity,
accounts for about ten percent of the area of production. Tfaditional
agricultue is typical of mountainous land in the Andean zones and of tropical
lowlands on the coast. It is labor-intensive and achieves lower productivity.
Finally, there is transition agriculture, which uses both modem and
traditional technologies.
1.4        In 1992, the agricultural sector suffered one of its worst years
in recent history, and output contracted 0.9 percent. The effects of a severe
drought were exrbated by low international commodity prices, trade
refms that increased import competition, lack of credit availability,
areciation of the exchange rate, and rural violence. Facing declining rural
incomes and growing pressure from agricultural interests, the Govemment
recently adopted an Agricultural Recuperation Program of trade, credit, and
other agricultural policy measures. The situation has improved and the
sector grew about 2.7 percent in 1993 and 2.1 percent in 1994. There is,
however, continuing political pressure to introduce protction in the sector
that has partly, but not completely, been resisted by Govenment.



- 2 -
NPtential for Agricultural Production Growth
1.5         Colombia has considerable potential for increasing agricultural
production by bringing additional land under cultivation intensification and
increasing productivity (improved yields). If local or external demand is to
be satisfied by Colombian agricultural producers, however, production has to
be competitive in a conterct of open borders. increased productivity would
help t increase rural employment and incomes, alleviate poverty, and slow
migration to cities.
1.6         There are presently large variations in crop productivity
between commercial crops (prduced mostly by lare farmers as single crops
on good .soils in the valley floors of the main rivers) and food crops
(prduced primarily by small famers who plant a number of crops in small
areas). Recent statisis show that small farmers' yields for basic food crops
are about 66 percent, for cane about 50 percent, and for beans up to 90
percent of the national ave . Although large farmers tend to have higher
quality land, the potential for increased prductivity for small farmers is
substantial.
The Smal FkI rners-Contributions and Constraints
1.7         Recent statistics show that about 10 million of Colombia's 31
milion inhabitants live in the rural sector, on about two million holdings.
About 1.7 million farms (85 percent of the total) have less than 20 ha each,
and 56 percent of these have less than the national average cultivated area of
3 ha.
1.8         In producing basic foodstuffs for the domestic market, small
fanners play a vital role in Colombian agricultural self-sufficiency. Using
the 1982 figures of the National Planning Department, it is estimated that
small firmers produce about 60 percent of Colombia!s basic foodstuffs
(maize, wheat, beans, potaoes, cass( a, plantain, pancla, fruits, and
vegetables) and about 20 percent of indusal raw materials derived from
agrculture. Farmers consume about 30 percent of their production and sell
the remaining 70 percent.
1.9         About 60 percent of the rural labor force is employed in small-
scale agriculture - small landholdings concentrated in the Andean regions and
in topical lowlands. Most of the small fam crops are cultivated wilth
traditional technology, and levels of productivity are low. On small
holdings, access to land is a limiig factor Incsng smal frmer income,
therefor, will mean increasing productivity, whethe by improved
technology for production, processing, and marketing or by introducing
higher value crops.



- 3 -
2. AGRICULTURAL T;ECNOLOGY DEVELOPM!ENT
AND EXTENSION
Background
2.1         In the last decade, public sector funding for agricultural
research1 in Colombia has been equivalent to about 0.3 percent of the
agricultural sector GDP (as compared with the 0.4 percent average recently
noted for less developed, medium-large countries. In more developed,
medium-large countries, the average is 2.2 percent). Private sector funding
for agncultural research grew steadily during this period then flattened at
nearly 0.2 percent of agricultural GDP. At 0.5 percent of agricultural GDP,
total funding for agricultural research in 1991 was about US$35 million, with
the Colombian Agiculturl Institute (ICA) -then the main govemment
agency for agricultual research- investing about 60 percent of the total and
the remaining 40 percent coming from such semipublic and private entities
including universities and growers assocations. In the private sector, most
research is commodity-specific and applied with a short gestation period.
This tyut of research is likely to continue tD figuie prominently in privately
funded projects as mechanisms to stimulate private funding become effective.
2.2         New technology in Colombia has been generated by ICA
anstituto Colombiano Agmopecuario) in the public sector, and in the private
sctor by producer organizations (such as Centro de Investigaciones de Cafd
(CENICAFE), Federaci6n de Arroceros (FEDEARROZ), and the Centm de
Ivnestigacidn de la Ca*a (CENICANA) and by commercial seed and
agrochemical companies. In addition, Centro Inernwcional de Agricultura
Dpical (CIaf, situated in Colombia, and with Centro Interacional de la
Papa (CT), and CIMMYT (Centro Intenational de Meoramiento de Matz y
7iigo), supplies international support.
2.3         No single organizaion has beer responsible for extension
activities. Larger farmers use the services of many private extension
agencies, agents, and (in the case of rice, coffee, cane, and cotton) relevant
producer organzations. While many have adopted modern technology, there
are still considerable inefficiencies-particularly in the excessive use of
chemical inputs.
2.4         A series of agencies have brought extension to small fiirmers
in the past. Serving particular clients, these include Caja Agraria, a large
agricultural bank (supported by Loan No. 2909-CO), DRI (Loan No. 3250-
CO), The Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land
Preparation (HIMAT) (Loan No. 3113-CO), and the Coffee Growers'
Association (Loan No. 2433-CQ closed).
1    Research include. stagc, applied esch, validatdon and adst (adaptive)
inrventios, and techology ftnaki:r (Annex 4).



- 4 -
2.5         The basic shortcomings of research and extension in Colombia
are as follows.
a     Lack of adequate advice to small farmers regarding sustainable
production systems, which results in their profitability being
far below the national average.
*     Excessively high commercial agriculture production costs
largely from inefficient and excessive use of inputs (mainly
chemicals). This puts Colombian producers at a disadvarntage
in export markets, leads to severe environmental pollution, and
lowers profits.
*     Irrigation technology that does not meet the needs of small
firmers, causes major inefficiencies in water use, and leads to
inadequate crop combinations and the use of low-value crops.
*     Lack of adequate post-harvest technology leading to excessive
losses after harvesting, poor quality products, and the difficulty
in improving standards of packaging and grading.
*     Lack of adequate technology for foTestry and fishery
development.
e     A top down reah system that has not involved farmers in
research development.
2.6         In 1989, as part of its decentalization initiative, Gover.ment
began shifting responsibilities for planning and implementing agicultual
development progams to municipalities and to departmental and regional
authorities. In addition, Government took a series of steps to establish a new
system for coordinating and funding agricultural reserch and extension, with
a special emphasis on assisting small fbrmers.
National System for Agricultural Technology Transfer
2.7         In early 1989, Govenment established (by Decree No. 1946)
the National System for Agricultumal lTchnology Thansfr (SlTh .P)1 This
policy statement sets out key sector objectives and institutional aranents
for the coordination of research and extension to small frmers. WiLthin the
SINT;F strucwre, MOA has a planning and coordinating role, cofinances
research, and serves as an umbrella to DRI, for its cofinancing of agricultual
axtnsion.
2.8         SITAP replaces ICAs lrely tp-down approah to applied
research, technology transfer, and extension with a participator, demand-
driven system in line with the ongoing process of decentralization. Farmers
can now make their needs known through mumicipal development plans, from
which local panels can identify research subprojects. Results of these



subprojects (if selected), and from ongoing research, are to be transtrred to
the firmers through existing extension services. Public and private sector
entities ard growers' associations will be able to obtain flinancial support for
research through a competitive process designed to select subprojects that
best meet local needs.
2.9         In 1991, Government established the National Agricultumal
Thchnology bansfer Program (the Program) to put SINTAP into effect. The
Program is the central instrument in the Government's plans to modernize
and improve the competitiveness and incomes of Colombia's small
agricultual producers. Addressing the major constraints faicing the sector, it
aims to turn the present systm into a coherent, functioning system with
clearly established criteria for planning, implementation, and supervision of
reSearch and extension activities at the national, regional, and departmental
leels. The Program will help make sure that the identification of research
needs takes place at the local level so that research projects address local
priorities. Finally, it will help ensure the quality of agriculhtual technology,
both that generated by research at home and that which is transferred from
abroad. The Program will focus on developing sustainable fanning systems;
promoting reduced and more efficient use of bio-chemicals; promofing
integrated pest management; and improving the management of irrigated
agriculture, fisheries, forestry, and post-harvest technologies.
2.10        The MOA will coordinate the Program using research and
extension activities that include the private sector, govemment departments,
and municipaliies (for a Program organization chart, (see Annex 7).
Colombin Agricultunal Research Institute (ICA)
2.11        In the past, ICA was the main govnment agency responsible
for undertaking agricultural csearch and extension. By Decree No. 2141 of
December 30, 1992, ICA was downsized and split in two (see Annex 14).
2.12        ICA. With a staff of 1,600 (down from 6,700), ICA is
financed from the national budget. About 800 staff are part of a large joint
project between ICA and the United SWes Departent of Agriculture for the
control and eradication of hoof-and-mouth disease. ICA is also responsible
for the control of animal and plant disas  and pests (about 400 staff), for
quality control of agricultual inputs (about 200 staff), and for administering
speal programs (with about 200 stall).
2.13        The Colombian Corporation for Agricultural lnestigation
(CCIA). A joint public-private sector rsearch corporation with a staff of
about 3,500, CaRs mandate is to undertake agricultual research under
contract from public and private sources. Although it is expected to be
financially self-sustaining over the long term, dunng this transition stage it
will be financed partly from xthe national budget. It will be eligible to solicit
fimds from the Project in competition with producer associations,
univeries, pnvate sector and CGIAR research centers. The Corporation



- 6 -
has a largely private-sector Board chaired by ICNs General Manager, and
has recently appointed its chief executive. CCIA has taken over ICA's 13
main research stations and 66 regional research centers and their staff.
CCIA has more operational flexibility than a purely public sector entity. It
can both give and receive contracts and its staff are not civil servants. It has
some 106 associate members from both the public and private sectors, such
as FENALCO, CENICAFE, FEDEARROZ and some of the 14 regional
departments. Associates are invited to take equity positions, and their
representatives have seats on CCIA's Board. It is expected that associates
will submit research contracts they wish CCIA to undera}ke directly and it is
expected that the CCIA to be a major participant in agricultural technology
development and adaptation financed under this project.
DRI and Extension
2.14        Recent legislation put the municipalities in charge of providing
extension services bo farmers, either by establishing their own extension units
Unidad Municipal de Asistencia Tdcnica Agropecuaria (UMATA), or by
contracting an agricultural technology service firm. To date, 550 UMATAs
have been established. Where these have been operational for one year or
more, there is a marked improvement in the relevance and quality of
cxtension services p.uvided to fanrmes.
2.15        DRI, which is supported by the Bank and IDB under the Rural
Development Investment Program (RDIP), channels funds to municipalities to
support a wide range of subprojects (including extension, rural roads, water
supply, watrshed protection, marketing, and fisheries). Establishment of
UMATAs; specific, joint extension subprojects conducted with the fimers
(such as demonstration plots, field visits, and faer training); and the
preparation of municipal agricultural development plans are all cofinanced by
DRI. The RDIP is now in its third year of implementation and is proceeding
well. Farmers are receiving more frequent and more systematic extension
advice. What is now needed is advice. based on better research results The
proposed Project is designed to fill this gap.
Bank Strategy in the Agricultural Sector and Support for Agricutural
Technology
2.16        Bank objectives in Colombia aTe to assist the Government in
consolidatng and deeening its structural reforms and to support private-
sector-led growth by improving labor's skills and infrastructure and utility
seivices. The Bank gives pnority to imvestments for private sector
development, government decentralization, and povert alleviation-with
emphasis on ameliorating inefficiencies in key economic sectors. ln pmrsuit
of these goals, Colombia's agricultual sector gives high priority to rural
poverty alleviation and efficient growth. The Bank supports Colombia7s
antipovrty strategy of ovUall macroeconomic policies designed to encourage
sustained economic growth and expanding demand for labor. Bank srategy
to promote growth in the agricultual sector includes generating and



- 7-
promoting the adaptationi and transfer of new agriculturAl technology,
assisting in the rationalization of the cxtension system, providing support for
infrastructure (mainly irrigation and rural roads), and promoting natural
resource management and protection. Its strategy is to focus on the needs of
small farmers and thereby to help reduce poverty.
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
2.17        The Colombia Agricultural Research and Extension Project
(Loan 2303-CO) that closed on June 30, 1992 was designed to improve and
expand lCANs research activities to help Colombia raise its agricultural output
at competitive costs. The PCR noted that the project met its targets (such as
building and equipping research facilities at experimental statimns and training
research personnel), thereby expanding Colombia's capacity to develop useful
agricultual technolkgy to improve and increase production.
2.18        The achievements of that project provide a strong foundation
for the proposed Agricultural Technology Development Project, and lessons
from it were incorporated in the Government's new research and ectension
policy and in the proposed Bank Project. Because past projects have often
been overly academic and have not fully met the research needs of small
farmers, under the proposed Project, small farmers will participate in the
selection and implementation of future research projects. lb increase the
efficiency and effectiveness of agricultural research, efforts of the national
institutre formerly responsible for such resarch will be augmented by a broad
program of agncultural technology transfer that incorporates the talents of
universities, NGOs, and private firms in the execution of research projects.
Ib improve the relevance and quality of the technologies generated, research
funded by the Project wiU be selected on the basis of predetermined criteria
that prioritize activities by type and location and promote interinstitutional
collaboration. Given increasing problems of sustainable agriculture and
environmental issues, one of the selection criteria will be that proposed
activities promote environmentally sound technologies, which will entail
specific trainig and skills to develop a "grien" sensitivity thrughout all
research subprnjects.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.19        The most recent Country Assistance Strategy (Report R93-198,
of November 19, 1993) for Colombia was presented to the Board on
December 16, 1993. The proposed is fully consistent with the CAS. It is
specifically mentioned the CAS and would support thre  of the broad
objectives for Colombia, private sector development, poverty reduction and
institutional strengtheing.
2.20        There are several major reasons for the Bank to support the
National Agricultual lTchnology kansfer Program of which the proposed
Project is a part. The Program's objecives of making Colombia's
agricultral sector more competitive is consistent with the Bank's continuous



- 8 -
support of the Government's efforts to liberalize trade and modernize the
agricultural sector. The Program also has a strong antipoverty focus,
addressing the needs of small farmers. With the declining competitiveness of
Colombian agriculture following apentura and the removal of taiffs and
protections, it is imperative that measures be taken immediately to increase
agricultural productivity. Finally, the Program supports an expanded role for
the private sector and Government decentralization which the Bank has been
assisting through a variety of programs that include the ongoing Rural
Development Investnent Program of agricultural extension activities.
2.21        With its extensive experience in helping governments to
decentralize and encouraging increased participation by the private sector
(both in Latin America and elsewhere), the Bank is uniquely placed to assist
in the financing of this proposed Project; which will be integrated into the
exnsion system supported under Loan 3250-CQ  The Project mould build
on the Bank's experiences with the earlier Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (Loan 2303-CO).



3. THE PROJECT
3.1         The Agricultural Technology Development Piroect (ATDP)
was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Planning
Departmnt with support from the Bank. A preparation mission visited
Colombia in February 1992, a preappraisal mission during April-May 1993,
and an appraisal mission in July 1993. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 25-29, 1994. The Colombian Govenment team was
led by Dra. Claudia Salcedo, Minstry of Finance and Public Credit.
Objectives and Description
3.2         Objectives. A goal of the Project-and one consistent with the
Government's apenura, decentraliztion, and privatization policies- is to
bring about change in Colombia's agricultural research culture.
laditionally, ithis has been public sector dominated, conservafive, elite and
drven by supply rather than demand. As part of Government's National
Agricultural lcbhnology 1kansfr Program, the Project aims to achieve the
following objectives.
-     Introduciin a new approach, in support of the National System
for Agricultural bchnology Development and Tlansfer,
including with measures to build institutional capacity, which
would promote the development and testing of technical
packages especially appropriate for small fariners, and to
divule new technology.
*     Promotig private sector participation in agricultural research.
Imnproving the quality and efficiency of agriculual research by
intoducing a demand-driven, competitie selection systm that
would cofinance projects with universites and private and
public sector entities.
*     Supportn decentralization of agricultural rach and
exknsion activities by strengthening regional centrs, training
agicultdual etnsionists, and disseminating infomation.
*     Revitalizing underused assets, both physical and human, that
presently exist within Colombia7s research services stem.
Research funded under the Project would ultimately help to reduce rural
poverty, increase rural employment, and improve the competitiveness of
Colombiis agricultural producers.
3.3         Description. The prposed Project would finance a four-year
progrm with two main components:



- 10-
*     The technology development and adaptation component
would include demand-dnven investments in strategic, applied,
and adaptive research (including adjustment, validation, and
promotional activities).
*     The institutional development component would include
establishment of a small unit in the MOA to oversee Project
coordination and promotion among the vanous participating
oganizations, and the Departmental Secretariats of
Agr-cultrues monitoring and quality control activities. This
unit would also screen subprojects for technical quality and to
contract out approved subprojects. The MOA would be
supported by a National Panel (which would make the selection
of subprojects for cofinancing and submit them to the
Becutive Council), and, when installed, by regional panels
(for subproject screening). Institutional development would
also entail: the establishment of Program coordination staff at
the regional level (which would carny out Program promotion);
tchnical assistance to assist with implementation of a
supesion system, a midterm review, and assessment of the
Project's impact; taining in available technologies and
subproject preparation for research staff, field technicians, and
other professionals; establishment of a University Assistantship
Program to link academic studies with practical research work;
and establishment of a system to meet agricultural technology
infrmation requixements at the departmental and municipal
levels.
Detiled Rbatures: Technology Development and Adaptation
3.4         This component would cover investnent in strategic, applied,
and adaptive agricultural research throughout Colombia. The selection of
investment subprojects would be made by applying criteria reflecting
priorities for research (including those identified at the municipal and
regional levels), limits on size and duration of subprojects, and amount
of available funds in the Annual Operaing Plan. (The process by which
msearch priorities are set, and research proposals are solicited and selected is
described below).
3.5         All research subprjects would include socioeconomic sthdies
and be limited to a maximum of tiree years and an average annual total cost
of US$50,000. In order to ensure the active pardcipation of a variety of
agmei in the Project, a Partcipang Entity's share of funded subprojects
would be no more than 60 percent of the total value at any one point. The
Bank and the Bomwer agreed on crtera and trgets for 1995, these have
been included in the Project's Operational Manual. Assurances were
obtained at negoiations that the MCU would implement the project as per the
agreed Operational Manual and tat Government would send the Bank for
appraoal any proposed changes to the Project's Operaonal Manual,



- 11 -
including changes in the criteria and targets agreed upon during negotiations
and a Participating Entity's limitation to a maximum of 60 percent of the
total value of approved subprojects at any one time (para. 6.1 (c) (i)).
3.6         Eligible subprojects would fall into the following
subcomponents:
0     Strategic and applied research iestent  Stategic
research would encompass subprojects directed toward
medium-nm national priorities, and be expected to lead to
applied, and later adaptive, research. Applied research
fimding would support subprojects of potential immediate use
to frmers (in such areas as sustainable production systems,
integrated pest management, post-harvest technologies,
fisheries, and environmental problems). It is expected that
financial support provided under the Project, although limited,
would encourage partcipating entities to use their existing
resea.ch staff and facilities more efficiently and help to
encourage greater private imnvstment in agriculturl research.
EstimaWt4! cost of this subcomponent is US$26.8 million.
Adaptive research inT  chnology-transfer
subprojects would include demonstration parcels, field days,
and training. lbchnology generated at experimental stations,
however, would be tested, adjusted, and approved under
rpresentative ecological conditions before being transferred to
extensionists. Research technology would hav-e to be validated
by both farmers and local UMATA staff, who would identify
fctors that might limit producion in each agroecological zone
and develop strategies for overcoming these constraints. These
subprojects would finance operational costs (such as gathering
infomation, testing soil, providing inputs, transportation, visits
with farmers, supervision, and evaluation). Estimated cost is
US$26.8 million.
Detaied 1Fatures: institutional Development
3.7         Establish and support the Management and Coordinating
Unit MICU), the National hnel in the Manistry of Agriulture, and
Rgional Paneis. The MCU, which has already been established, reports to
the Council and is responsible for the overall coordination and supervion of
the Program. The Project would finance start-up costs for office equipment,
including computers, as well as salaries and operational costs and technical
assistance necessary for this unit to coordinate the overall Program. It would
also finance Project promotion and advertsing though publications.
seminars, radio, and television advertising. MCU would manage the
technical valuation and screening of subprojects. It would also prepare,
sign, administer, and oversee +he technical and financial auditing of
cofinancing contracts with the implementing entities either directly or through



- 12 -
a fiduciary. With the help of contracted personnel, this unit would monitor
and evaluate the overall Program at the national, regional, and municipal
levels (see Project Implementation -Section 4).
3.8         The MCU would be supported by a National Panel (which has
already been established) of up to seven leaders in agriculture and
agricultural research drawn from universities, the private sector, and the
Colombian government (para. 4.9). This panel would screen strategic and
applied research subproject proposals against established criteria and
recommend them for financial support. It would advise the Council when
changes in the criteria and budget were desirable.
3.9         This suboomponent would also support the establishment and
financing by MCU, of regional panels to screen subproject proposals first for
such basic criteria as subproject size, cofinancing, regional quotas, and
subproject priorities (para. 4.10). Prescreening would reduce the wnrk of the
National Panel and help to begin the process of decentralization which the
Program supports as an overall goal.
3.10        The total cost of this component, including office equipment,
computrs, salaries and operating supplies as well as technical assistance in
subproject preparation and evaluation, is US$7.1 million.
3.11        In order to make sure that the system was responsive to the
needs of the region and the small famer, small coordination units would be
established in each department (para. 4.10). These units would ensure that
the municipal development plans were taken into account when maldng zonal
development plans and that the annual investment program for research,
adjustment, validation, extension, and training meet the needs of both smal
fkrmers and the UMATAs in each area. Because this aspect is important to
the success of the Project, professional assistance would be supported at the
regional level. The MCU would be responsible for the appointment,
contracting and financing of the regional coordmation umts and the financing
of vehicles (including boats) for technical staff involved in the Program.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that no expenditures would be
made for vehicles, including boats, until a plan has been prepared, acceptable
to the Bank, for the acquisition of said vehicles and for making them
available to the persons who would be using them for project purposes (PaM.
6.1 (b) (1)). The total cost of this subcomponent is US$9.6 million.
3.12         Iechnical Assistance. Technical assistance is required in the
first semester of the Project to help MCU fine-tune and implement the
supervision (including monitoring and evaluation) system for the cofinanced
subpzojects. Assurances were obtained dunng negotiations that MCU hire
consultants to undertake the following: not later than three months from the
effectivEness date to assist with the refining and implementation of the system
and within six months after effectiveness send a report to the Bank for
comment (pam. 6.1 (c) (ii)); not later than two years after the effectiveness
date prepare a project performance report to be used as a basis for a



- 13 -
comprehensive midemn review (pam. 4.23). This performance report would
assess the overall performance of the project, the functioning of the National
Panel, the subproject selection process, the role of the regional panels, and
what responsibilities for the Prgram could be transferred from MOA to the
DePartmental Agricultural Secretariats or other approprate agencies of
Tbrritorial Entities; toward the end of the Project, by January 1, 1999,
consultants would be hired to conduct an independent evaluation of both the
Proect and Program using sample case studies to assess the success to date,
and to detneine whether or not the Government should prepare a fbllow-up
project (pama. 6.1 (c) (iii)). Draft lbrns of Refirence for technical
asistance to be undertakn in the first year of the project have bee a prepared
and agreed upon during negotations (Annea 12). The estimated US$4.0
million cost of this technical assistance is included in the totals of the other
subcomponentL
3.13        Tlainhn&  The training activities under the Project fa into
four categories.
Tlaming in the management, formulation and implementation
of the Program at the national, regional, and muimcipal
(UMATA) leveL Allowances have been made for over 130
taining events over the four-year Project period. Estimated
cost is US$1.7 million.
e     Professional training in preparation and management of
subprojects financed under the project for employees of
selected public and private institutions. An estimated 24
workshops are planned. Estimated cost is US$0.4 million.
famiring of protssionals of public and private institutions
(including universities) and UJMATAS in effective and relevant
technologies. An estimated 240 training events are planned.
Estimated cost is US$2.4 million.
*     Draining of technical staff in the 1,030 municiities in the
methodologies of technical assistance (extension) to the farmer.
Over 700 events are planned. Estimated cost is US$5.7
million.
3.14        Unidrsity Asistanisbp Program. This progm  would help
link academic studies with practical research work and help students at
accredited filities of agronomy in Colombian universities complete their
graduate work requirements in the M.A. degree, thereby helping to supply
staff for departent which lack people with postgraduate agricultural
qu lfcations. Actual research work would be done in conjunction with
pecfic applied research subproects to be financed under the Project. An
allowance has been made for 80 students, selected by participating
universities, at an estmated base incremental cost of US$10,000 each. A
detailed desciption of this program will be included in the Operational



- 14 -
Manual (a draft proposal is contained in Annex 14). The estimated total
incremental cost of this program is US$0.9 million.
3.15 lIaining programs have alrady been identified (Annea 14) and will
be included in the Operational Manual. Estimated total incremental cost for
training is US$11.1 million.
3.16        Establish a Technology Information System. MQO  would
put in place a Tbchnology Inornmation System for agricultural technological
packages (including publications on the various packages available) which
would serve the needs of the research system at the national, departmental,
and municipal levels. During the fiLrst year of the Prject, a study would be
undertaken to define the system's scope in terms of the needs of small
rmeres/IUMATAs (taking into account available technology packages and
publications), the needs of the regional research centers and the departments,
ixedback information from the field, needs for equipment and materials,
annual operating costs, and prospects for sustainability once cofinancing
ceases. (Draft' rms of Reftrence for the study have beer. prepared and
agreed at negotiations, see Annex 12).
3.17        Assurances were obtained during negotiations that MOA
prepare a proposal for a detailed action plan for a technology infrmation
system and submit it to the Bank for comment no later than six months after
effectiveness (para. 6.1 (c) (iv)). Assurances were also obtained during
negotiations that no expenditures, other than expenditures with respect to
consultant services, be made on this system without an action plan acceptable
to both Government and the Bank (pam. 6.1 (b) (ii)). Estimated cost of this
subcomponent is US$2.6 million.
Sittus of Preparation: Project Year One (Including 1995 Inestment
Subprojects)
3.18        The 1995 Annual Operating Plan (AOP) for both semesters
will cover about 200 research subprojects that meet agreed criteria and
targets, as well as the first year's costs of other Project components.
Government has approved the 1995 budget of US$11.3 million, for the
project. The first tranche of proposals for cofinancing by the Project has
already been prepared and initial screening completed. Demonstrating a
strong private sector demand for research financing, some 450 out of 1,102
proposals (41 percent) came from institutions outside Government (growers
associations, private companies, NGO's and universities2). About 370
proposals which met the agreed criteria were sent to the National Panel for
review. Seventy subprojects, with a total investment value of US$5.7 million
(first year investment of US$2.4 million) were selected by the Panel for
sartwup in the first semester of 1995. Contractual arangements for these
subprqects are presently underway. For the remaing 300 proposals sent to
2     Some Colombin unisities awe both public and pivatdely suppored.



- 15 -
the Panel, about 130 more will be selected for startup in the second semester
of 1995.
3.19        Analysis of the source of the proposals received indicated
considerable scope for strengthening links between the public and private
sectors since only 15 of 1,102 subprojects were collaborative efforis
nolvng different agencies. If appropnately prontized and channelled,
Project funding could play an important role in broadening the scope of
private sector involvement and promoting joint public-private sector
collaboration, thereby contributing to the ultimate goal of opening up the
economy.
Project Costs
3.20        Ibtal Project oDsts are estimated at US$84 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$29.6 million (as detailed in
Annexes 1 and 2).3 The final allocation for technical assistance, research,
validation, and adjustment subpjects would be determined by annual
dmanad from potential beneficiaries and by the implementing agencies'
capacity to implement subprojects. Costs were calculated using projected
January 1995 pnces and include a physical contingency of 10 percent on all
Priect management components. Expected pnce increases over the
financing period were computed using Bank projections for international and
local inflation dated May 1994. Physical and price contingencies total
US$11.9 million for all components
Project F    ;nancg
3.21        The pmposed Bank loan of US$51 million wrould finance 61
pect of total Project costs equivaledt to 100 percent of the foreign
excharnge costs and 39 percent of local costs. The balance of Project costs
would be financed by the National Government (US$22.3 million, or
26 percent), and by participating unvesities and pnvate sector entities,
(US$10.7 million, or 13 percent). See Funds Flow Chart (Annex 3).
3.22        The Republic of Colombia would be the Borrower. The
Govenment would make the proceeds of the loan availab': on a grant basis
tD MOA to finance Project components. MOA would finance the
managent, administration, tainig, and institutional strengthening of
MCU, the National Panel, the Regional Panels, and the regional
Coordination Units; the trminng of exeonists; the Univsity Assistantship
Progam; and the development of a technology infirmation system; and
vhicls (mcluding boats) for regional technical staff. MOA would also
cofinance-together with each of the participating entities-strategic and applied
3     Annua cost figures sw  fr the imreseh isbnent com4mnu1 m Anncx 2 ame
estimatcs provided for planning purpoes oly and wll depend on demad.



- 16 -
research, adjustment, and validation subprojects. See Cofinancing Matrix
(Annex 2).
Procurement
3.23        Procurement of goods, works, and contracting of services
financed by the Bank under the Project would follow procedures acceptable
to the Bank. As applicable, standard bidding documents would be agreed
upon and incorporated into the Operational Manual, to be used by
implementing agencies as the basis for procurement under the Project. In
executing its subprojects, CCIA is expected to procure like items under
single annual contracts wherever possible, in order to achieve quantities-of-
scale discounts. (Ihese requirements would be included in cofinancing
contracts between MOA and the participating entities).
3.24        A procurement specialist on staff of the MCU would review
procurement under the Project to ensure that these conditions described were
met. In addition, MCU would hire an independent auditor satisfctory to the
Bank to carry out a technical analysis of the procurement procedures under
the Project every six months. Audit reports would be forwarded to the Bank.
During supervision missions, the Bank would sample contracts for review of
how procurement was being implemented.
3.25        Goods, other than vehicles, laboratory and specialized
agricultural equipment, would be procured under Iternational Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures for all contracts in excess of US$250,000.
Whicles, laboratory and specialized agricultural equipment, and other
equipment, as may be agreed to with the Bank, would be procured under
Limited Interational Bidding (LIB) on contracts above US$50,000.
Vhicles, equipment, and materials valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent
per order, would be purchased on the basis of price quotations from at least
three eligible suppliers. Computers, equipment, machinery, vehicles, etc.
will need to be procured and maintained for at least the first year of
operaton. Civil works financed under the Research Investments component
would also require contracts of less than US$50,000 to be awarded on the
basis of three price quotations from at least three qualified local contractors.
The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and technical
assistance financed under the Project would be consistent with the August
1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by Bank Borrowers and by
the Bank as Executing Agency.
3.26        Prior Review. In addition to the exceptions listed in the Loan
Agreement (Part E, Section 2), all consultant contracts over US$100,000 for
firms and US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to prior riew by the
Bank For cofinanced imvestment subprojects, in view of the small size of
the subprojects and the large number of participating entities, prior rnview by
the Bank, other than for ICB and LB, would not be practical. Therefore, in
accordance with the Operational Manual, the MCU's staff procurement
specialist would rwiew prcurement other than ICB and LIB, after the fact,



- 17 -
on a sampling basis of at least one in ten of the subprojects financed under
the project. As for ICB and LIB procurement, there would be no prior
registration of bidders, no requirement for local agents, and no provision
regarding a minimum number of bidders. In order to address unacceptable
discrepances between Colombian procurement legislation and the Bank
guidelines, the Project Agreement includes the follownmg special provisions:
bids for goods would be evaluated on an as quoted c.i.f. basis for foreign
bids and an ex-ifctory basis for local bids, and awards shall be made to the
lowest evaluated responsive bidders. Foreign bidders and consultants would
not be xequired to ratify accreditation documents (power of attorney,
company registration) with Colombian consulates, except for the purpose of
signing a contract. Bidders would bear the responsibility for the accuracy of
translations of any such documents into the Spanish language with no need
for certification by Colombian official agencies. Finally, all ICB and LIB
procurement would be done using Bank issued standard bidding documents,
amended as necessary for the purposes of the project.
3.27        Assurances were obtained during negotiations that MCU, and
the participating entities would follow procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Bank, as outlined above (para. 6.1 (c) (v)).



- 18-
lible 3: Procurement of Goods and Services
(US$ millions, including contingencies)
1'''-'~~~~~~~ ~~~~ ....... . .. >'. :t-.. ....:.'.
Research Inestments                               53.6'        53.6
(26.8)      (26.8)
Vieicles and Equipment        1.8                  6.6'         8.4
(1.8)                (4.9)        (6.7)
Op    Costs
Matri & Supplies                                 1.7b         1.7
(1.3)       (1.3)
Salaries and Labor and
Travel Expeses                                   6.3          6.3
(4.3)       (4.3)
Ibchnical Assistancerinin                         14.          14.0
(11.9)      (11.9)
Ibtal                         1.8                 82.2         84.0
Finaced by Loan
Amowut                      (1.8)               (49.2)       (S5.0)
prcentage Share                                              (60.7)
Note: Figures m pare_ess awe the espective dollar amounts financed under the
I lInludes Limited  tmatiLonal Biddig adG Shopping
b No single item of prement w11 exceed US$25,000 and Local Shopping will
apply.
0 Not subject to proment
I lundes conwlig services
Disbursements
3.28          Based on the standard disbursement profile fnr 1994 for
Colombia-Agriculture-when adjusted for retoctive financing and the use of
a Special Account (para. 3.32)-the proposed Bank loan of US$51 million
would be disbursed over seven years.
3.29          The Bank would reimburse MOA for expenses related tD
institutional strengthening of coordinating unit and regional centes, and for
the panel of experts, training, and technical assistance at a rate of 100
percent for foregn expenditumes for equipment and vehicles (including boats),
foreign consultants, and taig; and 85 percent for locally procured vehicles
(icluding boats) and equipmrent, panel honorarums, consultants, and
tAining. Estimated loan disbursement for these items is US$18.6 miTlion.
3.30          Salaries and inczemental opeating supplies would be
reimbursed from the loan at a rate of 85 percent of costs in years one and



- 19 -
two, 70 percent in year three, and 60 percent thereafter (estimated loan
disbursenents of US$5.6 million). All subprojects would be cofinanced with
participating public and private sector entities and subproject investment costs
would be reimbursed at a rate of 100 percent of MCU's portion, up to a
maximum of 50 percent of the total investmeni cost (with an estimated loan
disbursement of US$26.8 million).
3.31        All disbursements from the loan, except for equipment and
materials, are ecpected to be made against statements of expenditures
(SOEs). ICB and LAB contracts greater than US$50,000 or more equivalent
(where prior Bank rwiew will be required) would not be eligible for SOEs.
The participating entities responsible for the procurement of goods and
contracting of services would maintain the SOE documentation. Based on
SOEs, the minimum value for each disbursement request from the loan to the
Special Account would be US$600,000. Retroactive financing of up to
US$5.1 million for eligible expenditures (made after July 31, 1994, but no
more than 12 months before signing) would be provided for under the loan.
Eligible expenditues would have to follow procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank. It was agreed at negotiations that MOA may seek
the assistance of one or more fiduciaries, acceptable to the Bank, to provide
services related to the management of funds for the contracted payments on
rsearch subprojects (pan. 6.1. (c) (vi)). The Project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 2001, with a closing date of December 31, 2001.
3.32        The Borrower would establish a Special Account in US dollars
with the Banco de la Repdblica, acceptable to the Bank to cover eligible
Bank expenditures under the loan. The Bank would iniitially deposit up to
US$1 million upon receipt of an initial withdrawal application. This could
laer be increased to US$2 million (representing the avenage xpcted Loan
disbursement for a four-month period) once cumulative disbursements from
the loan reached US$6 million. Subsequent replenishment by the Bank into
the Special Account would foUow the procedures by which Bank fimds are
disbursed against actual expenditures.
Accountig and Audiing
3.33        To account for Project costs and financing, the MCU would
establish consolidated Project accounts and maintain other records as needed,
including separate accounts and records of the total cost of financed
subprojects and the cost of individual Project activities. Cofinancing
contracts with participating entities would use accounting and auditing
procedures provided in the Operational Manual, which would be coordinated
with the MCU's accounting system. These accounts are required to be
adequate for the financial monitoring of such transactions as local and Bank
financin&
3.34        Project accounts, the Special Account, and related financial
information (induding supporting documentation for SOEs) would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, in accordance



- 20 -
with Bank auditing guidelines (Annex 9). Assurances were obtained during
negotiations Ohat certified copies of the. audited consolidated Project accounts
and audited Special Account in the Central Bank (including a separate
opinion on the use of SOEs) be submitted annuaUy to the Bank not later than
six months after the close of the financial year, starting with the audit reports
for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1995. Assurances were also
obtained at negotiations that, if the financial audits identify significant
irregularities in any participating entity, MOA would immediatly suspend
disbursements to that party and require it to arrange fbr special audits to
ensure that any irregularities were resolved before disbursements are resumed
(pam. 6.1 (c) (vii)).



- 21 -
4. PROJECT 1MPLEMENTATION
Organition and Management
4.1        'lb implement the Colombian Government's National
Agricultural Ibchnology Program and this Agricultural Ibehnology
Development Project, a new structure was established in the MOA, and DRI
(see Organization Chart, Annex 7). Within the MOA, there would be an
Executive Council supported by a Management Coordination Unit and a
National Panel. With the help of Project support, this new structure is
expected to be adequate for Project implementation. The existing
Agricultumal Division in DRI would be strengthened as part of the
Government's ongoing Rural Development Investment Program and as an
important complement to the overall Program, but it is not a part of this
project.
4.2         As a condition of effectiveness, the MCU would have to have
minimum staff in place (in numbers and composition acceptable to the Bank)
to initiate the Project (para. 6.1 (a) (i)). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Government would, at all times, retain in the MCU and the
National Panel, staff in numbers and composition satisfactory tD the Bank for
efficient implementation of the Project, and that conditions for the
replacement of the coordinator of the MCU, and of National Panel members,
would also be satisfactory to the Bank (paa. 6.1 (c) (viii)).
Operational Manual
4.3         The Operational Manual describes how to plan, identify,
prepare, select, contract, finance, supervise, evaluate, and account for the
subprojects cofinanced with participating entities under the Project. The
Bank and the Borrower have agreed on the final draft of the Operational
Manual, which would be the worlkng document describing the Project,
including access to financial assistance by participatng entilties and the
geneal administration of the Project. The Operational Manual could not,
therefor, be changed without prior review by the Bank (para. 3.5). As a
condition of disbursement, an Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank
would have to be issued by the EC and adopted by the MCU (para. 6.1 (a)
O ))-
The Executive Council
4.4         The Executive Council has already been established. It is led
by the Vice Minister of Agnculture (Fblicy Coordnation) and mcludes the
Diector of Devopment (MOA) and the heads of Colciencias and DRI and
the Agricultal Unit in the DNP. The fonction of the Council is to oversee
the implementalion of the Project, to approve changes proposed by the
National Panel to Project cnteia or strategic tagets, to confirm the portfoio
of subprojects selected after each semi-annual review by the National Panel
(see para 4.16), tD approve Annual Operating Plans and Annual 'Wrk Plans,



- 22-
and to ensure that the MCU and DRI comply with the obligations stated in
their Annual Work Plans.
The Mtnagement Coordination Unit
4.5         The Management Coordination Unit (MCU), which is already
established, is responsible for administering, supervising, promoting and
providing related training for the Project; for preparing financial and progress
reports; and for monitoring and evaluating the Project overall. As it is
presently defined, the MCU is the administrative arm of the Council and
would assist with the development of Project criteria, coordinat research and
extension activities, promote wide participation, and ensure that the Project
continues on a path consistent with national goals. The MCU will also be
the main contact for the Bank for Project implementation.
4.6         The MCU has been given full authority and xesponsibility for
cofinancing subprojects with participating entities in strategic, applied, and
adaptive research. The MCU would send out semiannual imnitations for
subprojects; conduct a preliminary technical and financial review of
proposals; contract with implementing entities; supervise and monitor
subproject implementation; and ensure that procurement procedures used by
the participating entities were satisfactory to the Bank. Thc contracted
payments for the investment subprojects may be contracted to a fiduciary.
4.7         The MCUi would also coordinate and finance the mining
program including the University Assistantship Progra. Short-term trining
courses would be prepared by the MCU, by regional centers, or by
participating entities, who would identify course subjects, potential
instructors, and an appropriate organizational setup for teaching. Some of
the trining would be contracted out to specialists. The MCU would also be
responsible for the design and implementation of a technology intbrmation
system. The MCU would prepare Annual Operating Plans and Annual Work
Plans for all work under its supervision, along with annual financial
statements. This Office would be responsible for the use of the Bank funds,
including the processing of requests for reimbursement to replenish the
Special Account.
4.8         The MCU is led by a Coordinator, who reports to the Vice
Minister of Agriculture (Policy Coordination) in order to expedite decision-
maling. This gives the MCU the authonty necessary for dealing with all the
other entities in the sector and overseeing the implementation of the Project.
In all, some 23 incremental staff would be required. Details of the MCU's
organization structure and its tasks, authority, and responsibilities are
available in the Project file (Annex 14).



- 23 -
The National Panel
4.9         The National Panel (para. 3.8) has been appointed by the
Council to review, select, validate, and adjust all research and training
subproject proposals to be implemented under the Project. The Panel would
present the portfolio of selected subprojects to the Council for approval.
Panel members would be contacted at a standard daily rate for an estimated
15 days each per year. Contacts would be for two years with the possibility
of one extenion (in order to provide continuity). The National Panel would
include at least four members from universities and the private sector and
one person with environmental experience who could review research
subprojects for their emironmental impact Regulations for the National
Panel would be part of the Operational hianual and would stipulate
specifically that only subproject proposals that were enmirnmentally neutral
or were aimed at remedying environmental damages would be considered.
Regional Panels and Coordination Unit
4.10        As part of the national decentrizaton objective, the Project
would establish, after the first year of operation, regional panels to screen
proposals and ensure that those selected are designed to meet regonal
priorities and the needs of the small farmer (pam. 3.9). Regional panels
would also set assessment critea and targets for their respective departments
compatible with the corresponding critria provided in the Operational
Manual. Each regional panel would contain up to five professionals who
would be appointed by the Council on recommendations from the
Departmental Agricultmral Secretaa. The Project would also finance
prfessional coordination units at the field level to ensure that the project was
meeting the needs of the small farmer (pam 3.11). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the MOA would, no later than within 6 months
after the date of effectveness, establish at least 3 regional panels and appoint
their members and at least 3 regional coordination units, and hire appropriate
personnel and no later than twelve months after the date of effectiveness
prepare a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the establishment of additional
units (para. 6.1 (c) (ix)).
Processn Subprojects Fianced Under the Project
4.11        The system for the identification, processing and approval of
subprojects for cofinancing is based on open competition for available fumds-
based on established portfolio selection critria-among such sector enties as
universities and growers associations and the CCIA. Criteria would include
smal farmer and regional needs, pivat sector and joint venture
partcipation, and relevance to stategic research goals, and would be speled
out in the Operational Manual.
4.12        lb ensure frmer participation, agricultu  development plans
woud be prepared by the UMAMAs following meetings between the farmers,
UMATA tcnical staff, and the mayor of each mumicipality. Such meetngs



- 24 -
would provide a forum for farmers to express their research and ectension
needs. Development plans would also identify those areas and crops liklly to
yield increased production and income with research adaptation or technology
transfer.
4.13        Plans would be consolidated at the departmental level into
overall zonal plans. Identified needs (including training) would then be
addressed by means of discrete subprojects, to be financed under the Project.
With the assistance of the coordination staff, it is envisaged that, once
decentralized, Departmental Agricultural Secretariats would invite proposals
from research entities to undertake these subprojects, and implementing
entities would submit cofinancing proposals to the appropriate Departmental
Agricultural Secretariat using a standard fonn, see Annex 5. Pmposals
would then be screened by regional panels to ensure that they conformed
with crieria stated in the invitation letter and oginated at the municipal
level. Accepted proposals would be forwarded to the MCU.
4.14        Under the project, the MCU would also send letters, each
year, m August and m February to participating and prospective entities
inviting proposals for strtegic and applied research, adjustment, validation,
technology transfer, and training subprojects for possible cofinancing. This
invitation letter would state basic criteria for subprojects, in accordance with
the Operational Manual, as well as the Project's investment priorities for the
coming semester.
4.15        The MCU would enter proposals recved into a database and
eliminate: duplicates, technically unacceptable proposals, those whose
duration would be more  an three years or whose average annual cost
eeeded US$50,000; those that requested financing greater than the
maximum percentage allowed, and those that did not address the basic
Project objective of helping the small farmer. The MCU would then apply a
score to the remaining proposals for quality and reect those that fill below
the established minimum. It would summarize the remaining proposals by
department, compare the total value and financing required to detemine if
more screening was required to reduce the value of requests to no greater
an three times the level of funds available If needed, further screning
would be done by scoring and by distributing selections to ensure a rational
departmental mix. Finally, a list of recommended proposals would be sent
on to the National Panel.
4.16        The National Panel would review the portfolio received frm
the MCU to screen it for departmental mix, ovaall assessment criteia,
degree of participation by the pnvate sector, and relevance to small farmers
The National Panel would send a final portfolio of subprojects to the
Executive Council for approval. The Council would apprcve the overall
portfolio for the semester and advise the MCU regarding which subproects
had been selected. Once Government budgetary contibution was secured,
MOA would sign contuacts with the participating entities and make payments
according to the schedule set forth in the contact. If acual Project resources



- 25 -
differ from approved budget allocations, the National Panel would be
responsible for making changes in the approved portfolio of subprojects.
4.17        For the final portfolio of approved proposal, MCU would send
out Letters of Intent confirming the level of cofinancing and amount of
financial support that would be supplied to implementing entities. Reply
letters would be sent out indicating which subprojects were not selected. For
each subproject, the MCU would prepare cofinancing contracts between
MOA and the participating entity.
4.18        As part of the decentrlization process, certain subproject
selection, approval, and cofinancing procedures would be handled at the
deparmental level. Regional Panels, Coordination Staff, and Departmental
Agricultural Secretariats would set the assessment criteria and annual
imvestment trgets for their respective departments. Durng the midtErm
reviw an assessment would be made on what Project responsibilities could
be transfrred to the Departmental Agricultural Secretariats (para. 4.23).
Preparing Annual Operating and Work Plans
4.19        The MCU would prepare an annual operating plan for the
Project in accordance with normal Government timing and procedures.
Based on available funds and on demand, amounts would be included for
global investment in research, validation, adjustment, and training
subprojects. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the MCU
would send to the Bank for review (by October 31 of each year) the proposed
Annual Operating and Work Plans to be undertakn by the MCU under the
Project far the coming year and a report on the adequacy of theportfolio
management criteria (para. 6.1 (c) (x)).
4.20        In order to ensure maximum cooperation between interational
and Colombian research centers, prionty would be given to joint research of
mutual interest.' Management links among these organizations exist, in that
the General Manager of CCIA is a member of the Board of Ikustees of
CIAT, and CIAT is a member of CCIA and has the same rights as any other
national member. While promoting maximum cooperation between research
centers and corporations, subproject proposal submissions will be screened to
make sure they do not duplicate work being done internationally or elsewhere
in Colombia.
Emvironmenl Impact, Evaluation, Monitoring, and Supervision
4.21        The Project would promote research that would increase
agriculturl productivity and also improe the environment. Yet almost any
4     FEDEARROZ already has links to the new Cwpomucidn Colombiana Invsigacidn
Agmpecuaria (CCIJA) (panL 2.13) and to CLAI. CCIA and CIAT are conducting joirit
researeb on cassava poducton.. Joint research is also being conducted by CCIA and tvwo
other Latin American centers, CIP and CIMMYT



- 26 -
development activity distubs the land surface. While the area involved may
be small, the cumulative effect of many small disturbances can be substantial.
The MCU and Panel would screen proposals for environmental impact
(Annex 11). The MCU would maintain a monitoring system to evaluate
those impacts in thie field and to monitor the promotion of sustainable
agricultural practices. The MCU would prepare short reports on each
subproject under implementation (Annex 6). The implementing entity would
prepare a report upon completion of each subproject which would be
evaluated by the MCU. This subproject evaluation would compare actual
results with the subproject's objectivs using the baseline data in the original
proposal (Annea 5). In order to ensure adequate monitoring and supervision,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the MCU would appoint
consultants, not later than tee months from the date of effectiveness (under
terms of reErence satisfactory to the Bank) to refine and implement the
monitoring and evaluation system for the Project. Not later than six months
after effectiveness, the MCU would pvide the Bank with a report on that
system for comments (paa. 3.12).
4.22        The MCU would also submit an annual progress rport to the
Bank (due February 28) and two--three page progress reports (due August
31 and February 28 of each year) identifying the major issues, problems, and
actions taken in the planning and implementation of the Project. These
reports 'wold indlude the status of each component and discuss any problems
that might arise (m such areas as provsion of counterpart funds, pace of
technology adaptation, the Annual Wbrk Plan's effectiveness of research and
extension services, reasonableness o performance, and monitoring criteria),
which could impede Implementation. This information would also help the
Bank and the MCU to plan the timing and composition of supervisory
missions.
4.23        Tb evaluate the Project, the MCU would hire consultants
(under tms of reference satisfactory to the Bank) to prepare a midterm
performance report (pama. 3.12). No later than 30 months after the
effeceveness date, and using the afementioned report as a basis, the
Bomwer wuld undertae jointly with the Bank, a Midterm review and
evaluation of the activities caried out under the project and the results
achieved. This review would include, but not limited to: (a) the ftmctioning
of the Coordinating Unit, the Executive Council, the Panel, the Regional
Panels and the Coordination Units; (b) all aspects of the carrying out of
approved Subprojects, particulady the selection process and the response of
the privait Sector; (c) the efficacy of the provisions of the Operational
Manual and the application theeof; and (d) the determination of which of the
responsibilites of the Borrwe under the Pram could be transfirced to
the Dqartmental A u l Secretariats or other appropriate agencies of
Teritorial Entities. Assurances wer obtained during negotiations that the
above midterm review would take place no later than 30 months after the
date of effectiveness and once the renew has been completed all required
adjustments, as well as changes to the Opeational Manual agreeable to the
Bank would be introduced (pama. 6.1 (c) (xi)).



- 27 -
4.24        lbwards the end of the Project, by January 1, 1999,
consultants would be hired to assess the overall success of the Project and to
determine whether and when a second phase was needed. Reviewers would
use case studies to assess the Project's success in developing and integrating
links between strategic and applied research, adjustment and validation, and
technology transfer and extension and in promoting jomt research and
transkr activities between the puolic sector, growers associations,
universities, and other private sector entities (para. 3.12).
4.25        Assurances were obtained from the Borrower that MOA would
prepare and furnish to the Bank, no later than six months after close of the
project, a plan for the future operation of the system of financing agricultural
research to be put in place by this project, including the institutional
development undertaken. The Borrower has also agreed to give the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on such a plan
and thereafter to carry out the plan, taking into account the Bank's comments
(6.1 (c) (xii)).



- 28 -
S. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.1         The research system developed under the Project would be
more responsive to the needs of small producers. Although specific benefits
from this first phase of the Project cannot yet be quantified, it is estimated
that it could help some 350,000 farmers by improving yields, helping to
introduce higher value crops, and promoting enviromnmentally sound practices.
The introduction of a competitive research system, should also increase the
efficiency of research. The financing of operating costs would help
Colombian agricultural researchers make better use of existing physical and
human capital and, aver the long term, the use of improved technology will
increase incomes and employment for firmers, laborers, and the rural
population at large.
Risks
5.2         The Project's main nsks derive from its magitude to establish
an integrated, nationwide agricultural research and technology tansfer
pr-gram, involving up to 1,000 municipalities, 31 Departmental Agricultural
Secretariats, and a variety of universities, NGOs and private grwers
associations.
5.3         The risk that research results may not be effecive is a risk
inherent to any research program. In this case, the Project could fail to meet
the needs of small firmers. The overall Program, therefore, has been
designed to link research and extension services and to screen proposals to
ensure they will benefit the small farmers. Specific seminual targets will
also be set for financing subprojects that originate from the municipalities
Another mitigating factor is that in Colombia, the Project will be building on
an existing DRI extension systm that works very well. It is important,
therefore, that DRI continue to cofinance ectension services under its ongoiqg
project.
5.4   Government has established a special high-level Execudve Council
chaired by the Vice Minister of Agricuture (Pblicy Coordination) to resolve
any implementation problems that might arise and to apprve the Project's
annual opeating plans. Tb reduce the nsk of stat-up delay, the inve nt
program for the first semester of the Project's first year (1995) includes some
70 actual subprojects proposed by potential Participating Entiies and
accepted by the Panel, cofinancing contracts for these subprojects are
presently being prepared.



- 29 -
Project Sustainability
5.5         The Government's continued commitment to the development
of a new system for coordinating and funding agricultural research and
extension, with the ultimate aim of modernizing and increasing the
competitiveness of the sector, bodes well for the future of the Project. By
financing incremental operating costs within the existing infrastructure and
research community, the Project should generate an increase in research
activities. The Project will also increase the efficiency of investments in
agricultural research in Colombia, and private sector involvement (para. 3.2).
5.6         lb further enhance the sustainability of the Project, the
following mechanisms were included in the design.
* Professional assistance would be provided to the departments to
coordinate research and extension activities, and training would be
provided for field technicians and other professionals at the UMATA
level (paras. 3.11 and 3.13).
* The Executive Council, MCU, and DRI's Agricultural Division will
maintain administrative links to support Project and Program activities
(para. 4. 1).
* The Borrower, jointly with the Bank would conduct a mid-term
review to examine results and propose adjustments to Project
objectives wherever necessary (pama. 4.23).
* External consultants would begin a study in the fifth year of the
Project to evaluate the Project's success and assess the need for and
best timing of a second phase (para. 3.12).
* The Borrower would prepare, within six months after the close of the
project, a plan for the future operation of the project, discuss the plan
with the Bank and, thereafter, implement it (para. 4.25).



- 30 -
6. AGREEMENIS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   During negotiations of the proposed Loan, agreement from the
Government of Colombia was reached on the following main actions.
(a)   Condition of Effectiveness: (i) Initial key staff of the MCU, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, had been
appointed (para. 4.2); and (ii) an Operational Manual had been
deemed acceptable to the Bank and issued by the EC and adopted by
the MCU (pam. 4.3)
(b)   Conditions of Disbursements: the Bank would not disburse against
expenditures for: (i) vehicles, including boats, until an acceptable
plan has been prepared and submitted to the Bank (para. 3.11); and
(ii) the technology information system, other than expenditures with
respect to consultant services, until a mutually agreeable, detailed
action plan had been accepted by both Government and the Bank
(par 3.17).
(c)   Other Agreements and Assurances: (i) MCU would implement the
project as per the OM and Government would approve, and submit
for Bank approval, any proposed changes to the OM (para. 3.5). (ii)
Consultants would be contracted by MCU not later than: three
months from the effectiveness date, to assist the MCU with the
implementation of the supervision system for the Project and send a
report on their findings and recommendations to the Bank for
comment within six months from the effectiveness date (para. 3.12).
(iii) Tw years from the effectiveness date, to prepare a performance
report; and by January 1, 1999, and to assess the Project's success to
date and to determine whether or not Government should follow-up
with a second phase of the Project (para. 3.12). (iv) MCU would
prepare a proposal for a detailed action plan for a technology
information system and submit it to the Bank for comment no later
than six months from the effectiveness date (para. 3.17). (v)
Govemment and the participating entities would follow procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.27). (vi) MOA may seek
the assistance of one or more fiduciaries, acceptable to the Bank
(pam. 3.31). (vii) The accounting and audit requirements described in
para. 3.33 and 3.34 would be followed. (viii) Government would
retain in the MCU, and the National Panel, persons in numbers and
composition satisfactory to the Bank for the efficient implementation
of the Project and would not change the Coordinator of the MCU, or
appointed National Panel members, without prior Bank approval
(para. 4.2). (ix) within 6 months from the effectiveness date, MOA
would establish at least 3 regional panels and at least 3 regional
coordination units and appoint personnel and, no later than 12 months
after the effectiveness date, prepare a plan, acceptable to the Bank,
for the establishment of additional units (para. 4.10). (x) The MCU



- 31 -
would submit Annual Operating and Work Plans for Project activities
to the Bank for review by October 31 of each year (para. 4.19). (xi)
No later than 30 months from the effectiveness date, the Borrower,
jointly with the Bank, would carry out a comprehensive midterm
review and thereafter introduce all necessary changes to the Project
(para. 4.23). (xii) MOA would prepare a plan, within six months
after project closing, fir the future operation of the project and
discuss this plan with the Bank, and, thereafter, implement it (para.
4.25).
Recommendation
6.2         Using the terms and conditions set forth in Sections 1 to 6 of
this report, the Agricultural TIbchnology Development Project, as proposed,
constitutes a suitable basis for a World Bank loan of US$51.0 million to the
Republic of Colombia.



-32-
Arex   1
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUtNARY COSTS
-----USS Millons---
Local   Foreign Totat X of Totat
1/
Research Investments
- Research Projects             18.75     8.03   26.75    31.88
- Technology Transfer           18.75     8.03   26.78    31.88
Management and Coordination - MIIAG
- Mgmt.5 AdafnA& Panel           3.24     1.39    4.63     5.51
- Program Promotion              0.78     0.33    1.11      1.32
-Supervision                     0.97     0.41    1.38      1.65
-Sub-TotaL - MCU                 4.99     2.14    7.13     8.48
- Strengthening Regions          2.89     6.74    9.63    11.46
- Training                       7.17     3.07   10.24    12.19
- Research Retated Trn'g         0463     0.27   0.90      1.07
-Information System              1.28     1.28    2.55     3.04
Total Project Cost                 54.44    29.56   84.00   100.00
I/ Estimted direct and Indirect foreign exchange costs of the progrm.
Financing Plan
National Govermment Inc. CCIA      22.29            22.29    26.54
Universities and Private Sector    10.71            10.71    12.75
IBRD Loan                          21.44    29.56   51.00    60.71
Bank FY  1995    1996     1997    1998      1999     2000      2001
DISBURSEMENTS        X    12.00    24.00   40.00   52.00    68.00    88.00   100.00
- Anual          Mn     6.12     6.12     8.16    6.12      8.16   10.20      6.12
- Cumzulative    Mn     6.12    12.24    20.40   26.52    34.68   44.8    51.00
C:XA1PSARfANNEX U.IK



-33-
Amis 2
ASI!WLTUAL TECIOL    DEVELOPUT PROJECT
PROJECT SUIMP   Ws BY VW
----USS NhlLIcs--
Tar I  YTr 2  Yer 3  Tor 4    Total    2
Remrch Inveatments
- Re.ea.rc Projects       3.01    6.13    7.83    9.31    26.78   31.16
- Tachnology Truefer      3.01    6.13    7.83    9.1    26.78   31.16
ng_t md Coordinstion
- Nwt. Adin.& Pwl         1.17    1.15    1.16    1.13    4.63    5.51
- Prgrm Promothmn         0.54    0.22    0.18    0.17    1.11       1.32
- tiwrveiin               0.40    0.J      0.42    0.30    1.38    1.15
- St-Ttal, - NM           2.12    1.63    1.78    1.10    7.13    8.48
- Stru'utheninr tlwo      3.66    3.91    0.90    0.94    9.3   11.46
- Training                2.69    2.57    2.78    2.20   10.24   12.19
- REaorech Rlated Trn'g  0.20    0.20    0.21    0.21    0.90    1.07
- lnfomt1on  stog         0.31    0.71    0.77    0.77    2.55    3.04
Total Projoect bast         15.29   21.29   22.09    5.34   84.00   100.00
COFINANCING MATRIX
IqAtm.                            Nai
Agencise                    NME    Lom
_ _.._ __._ ............._______. _____............... _------------------
Managemet mi Coordinatfin
- Nt.& AdmIn.& Pael                         100       85      Il
- Training                                  100       05      I/
- Proorm Promotion                          100       65      11
- Srvision                                  100       85      1/
- infoatlon Systa                           100       85      11
- Reserch Projects                           21       50
- Tadinlogy Transftr                         2/       50
- Rteserch Rotsted Trn'g                    100       a5      11
- Strengthening  eogions                    100       as5     I
1/ The Denk an wmoutd finance 100 of the foreign costs mid 65 of the Local costa of
goods3 technal assistance and training in the coordinating uit. It would also fin
*6 2 -n the incrmenta operating costs of the uaft in years I and 2, 701 In yesr 3,
wd 602 in year 4.
V/ The llr loan would finane 1OO of NA's tare of the totat Investmnt costs of ech
rearch usprojects. NRM  mId negotiate Iv  of contribution on each  Aiproject
with the participating entities ip to a mximum of 50 2.



Il                                          I -
-- -- - -  - -- - - - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- - - - - - - -- - -- --- -
I  xamNv
-I--~~~~~~~~



-35-
ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TECiNOLOGY DEVELOPIINT PROJECT
DEFINIT.ONS
Basic and Strategic Research. In conventional terminology, basicw
research is no immediate practical goal other than to incrase knowledge.
'Strategic' research uses the results of past basic research to help provide
answas to a strategic goal even though those answers may not be
immediately applicable (applied).
Applied Research is research whose findings have the potential for
immediate application by farmers.
Adjustment and Validation are processes by which applied research is line-
tned, adjusted and confirmed as being appropriate for specific local
conditions. It is often conducted on-fam and lmown as adaptive research.
Technology Transfer is the diffusion process by which technology is passed
on to field professionals (e.g., in the UMATAs and gremio extension
services). It utilizs meetings, field days, radio, television, and publications
tD increase the awareness of these professionals in available technology.
Extension is the process by which field professionals and their tecnical
support staff provide farmers with advisory services. This involves utilizing
the findings of both applied and adaptive research diffused ffirough the
technology tnsfer process. These findings are passed on to farmers by
direct contact. In Colombia the process is often referred to as "technical
assistance'.



-36-                     ANNEX 5
INIISTERIO DE AGRSCULTUPA
?RORATTA
roMuLARro PARA LA PRESENTACION DE PROTECTOS
Contnido eBs Bieo
NOTAs UtIlice Ice anexos qua considere necosarLou en cada urie de lon nwuL rales,
para hae-r una adecuada promentaci6n de proyecto.
TWVO OR ISOTICTOt
3IVWnACOW EASICA ____ INVTCION APUCAD^ _  V^LIACION Y AIUf DE  TCOLOGA
TAMPDWCIA Ol TECSOLGL __  CAPACMACIO.!__ APOTO a LA AMDC O14FORMACION TEC.VOLOOCA
CoOco OArl4 DEL CEPATAJM&eO  NUV4ERO SECUDCIAL DEL noYWTO_  _   _
-   a, dimad   pM Is wInAul da .magailmi
PRONATTA
FORMUMLARIO PAA LAl PPESE)AXACIOH DE PROTECTOS
Conteando MS *ico
NOTA: Utilice lox anexos qua costidare anceaarios an cada uno de los zwmeralms,
par. hacer una adecuada prosentaci6n del proyecto.
1.    NOlIERE DIML PROTECTO
2.    EXIDAD RESPONSABRL
3.    DXRZCTOR DEL PROYECTO
4.    PLANHTEAXIETO  DEL PROLE4A                          _
5 . DSESCRIPCION DEL PROYECTO
5.1   JUSTIFICACION DEL PROTECTO



ANNEC S
5.2   ODJETZVOS DEL PROYECTO  ____________________
5 *3   KCETODOLOGIA PARA Lk L-TECUCION DEL PROYECTO_____________
5 *4   ACTI-7ZDADES PRINCIPALES Y CRONOGRAMJ
ver anexo No 1
5 *5   LOCI.LIZAJCION    GEOGRAPI CA. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
5.*6   PERIODO DC EJECUCION DEL PRCYECTO_________________
5.7   RESULTADOS ESPERADOS Y HETAS rISICAS_________________
5.8   INDICADORZS DE PROGRESO   _____________________



-38-
ANNEXS
S .9  ?NJoRs DE ILVANCE
S .10 DZNFICIJRIOSDELPROYECTO
5 .11  n=-RREACION CON PRODUCTORES
S. i62 P,OcEso DE TRms5FERICiA (Role para proyectos de generaci6n de t.cnologia)
6. e COSTOS DEL PROYrCTO
Ver anexa No 2
7. *    XDLXOGRA?T



-39-:
AKiO                                              CRONOGRAA DE ACTIVIDADE5
AND I                    AND 2                     ANO 3
yule. vuz; . ?Xzu. TAZu. tRIM. TRIM. tutu. THaw. luau. TRIM. TRim. m3.
ACTIVIDADES                              a                  1      *     a'                  a



-40-                              ANNEXS
ANDNO 2
PRESUPUESTO DE GASTOS
4oMSqE DEL PROV!CTO
ENTMOO ICESPONSALW. 
ANO I            I      WO 2          _        ANC a
I  RpP    PRONATrA _N IPP.   PRONATTA HMiM   R.P   .RONATrA HIM            TW.
seRVicIos PE!SONALES
A. TOTAL SERVIOOS PEq3ONALSO                     0        01 0 a                    0         a 
TOTSA GCST-NS ES                     .    .                  0
[TOTL A1..                 ____                .            o
IAToS 1 CAPTA                                                                                           _
<c TOTA GATS    AIA.                0a  .~                   a         a   O        ~
B  |        0       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PVONATT ' eawum d . eam,,lml
Artrarl.davonitao hw0iA.  otmwdm s'l
TEnA A. ftbw a   raU.aommlemlodoo              0 U Urym  CW  0a lpa.
PrAL                                                                        --- 
rSTOS~0 De CAPITAL                a I                     ai  I        3                      i
L.TOAS CFJP%M S DE ^X       1O |Id 0ubr1 dOe Ixrom an _nesa  oe Voo   eI
ER6 Jf edg aS  de Cap  dzPlc   kwsbca is r - cin deis mwrmares are * nrs d-1oycs



ANNEX 6
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
CHECKLIST FOR SUBPROJECT MONlTORG
AND EVALUATION REPORTS
A.   MONITORING
1.    1tle of Project.
2.   Executing Agency.
3.   Date of monitoring visit.
4.   Months since project stated.
5.   Monitoring report number.
6.   Monitoring carried out by.
7.   Program of monitoring visit.
8.   Objectives of project.
9.   Acceptability of methodology being used.
10. State of progress in relation to operating plan time frame.
11. Effectiveness of collaboration between agencies involved in the
project
12. What linkages have been established with potential
beneficiaries?
13.   Status of project in terms of its 'indicators'.
14.   Expenditure compared with budget, since initiation of projecL
15.   Major current problemslconstaints impending progress.
16.   Recommended actions to overcome problemstconstraints:
(a)   Executing Agency
(b)   Coordinating Unit
17.   Are ther any specific issues to be addressed by the next
monitoring exercise?
B. EVALUATION REPORT
1.   lde of Project.
2.   Project Leader.
3.   Executing agency and unit
4.   Start and finish dates for project.
5.   Date of evaluation.
6.   Evaluation carried out by.
7.   Original objectives of the project.
8.   Was the proposed methodology implemented?
9. HIow was the collaboration between agencies involved in the
project?
10.   Was the proposed methodology implemnted?
11.   Were project reports submitted on schedule?



-42-                     ANNEX 6
COLOMIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
B. EVALUATION REPORT (continued)
12.   How did actual expendiure compare with the budget?
13.   Who are the expected beneficiaries and how will the project
results be transmitted to them?
14.   How did the project perform in terms of its defined indicators
of progress?
15.   Were there are any problems encountered that constained the
progress or success of the project?
16.   What steps can be taken to avoid repetition of any items listed
in (15)?
17.   Is there any follow-up or extension for the project tt the
evaluation team recommends?



COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR NATIONAL AGRICULTURE TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAM
EXECUJTIVE COtMCIL          M~ INISTRY OF AGRICULIWUE                             RGOA
; | { CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~VE INITSl
|    S  _    l         l    ~~~~~~VICE M1INISTER  ll                          _l
SUB-DIRECTRATES                      I                      AIARICULTUIAL
COOROINATING UNIT       *FINANCIAL                                                SECRETAtIATS
(NO.)          - *TECHNOLOGY
TRANSFER-
AGRI~~~~~~~~~~
| REGIONA^L     l
PAIIELS  nd- 
WODI, UNITS
--~r  -----  |REGIONAL RESEARC99
CENER
L'JI7A
2t, 19



-44-
COLOMBIA                                         Annex 8
AGRICULTURAL
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Appraisal Twrgt at   *t          __ _
Project  SupervIslon   Actual     % of   % of Tarma
Itom                   Unit    Complbtion    Date      Achieve.    Total    To Dote
_mm/dd/yr)  (mmlddlvr)
Investmonts In Reearoh               IUS*0000      28,870
- Loan Support as a % of Total Inv.   %             60
- Portfolo Mii
- Aimed at Smal Farmers
* Private Sector                   %              60
- Joint Ventures                   %
Investments In Adaptive Research    IUS$000)       28.870 _
- Loan Suppot as  % ot Total Inv.     %              o W            _
- Portfolio Mbi                            _
- Aimed at Small Farmer         _
- Private Sector                   %              Go60
- Joint Venture                           _           ___
- Tochnicians at Umatas               events          720
-_Cost       (US$000)         6.700       _                                   I
- Tralning the Traine                 eents           240
-Cost       (US$OOO)        2.400                         _
- Project Prepartion and Mgmt.        eventa           24
C _ ost      (US$000)         400
- Project Management                  events          132
-Cost      l(USOOO0)        1.700                  _
- Aed tantship Prom                 no. of Part.       so
Cost         (US$000)          800 _
;-r*motion                         |
- Newspaper ads                      no.            120
- Rado Ads                           no.          1.920                            .
- Pubic Medngo                       no.             24
- Bulletins                          no.             lei
Page 0



ANNEX 9
COLOMIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AUDIT REQUIREN(ENS
Documentation for Audit of Consolidated Progam Accounts
1.          MOA/MCU would naintain a data-base accounting system
recording the total cost of subprojects financed under the project, the amount
financed and paid by MOA and, also, the costs incured by MCA in hie
institutional strengt g component.
2.          MOA.MCU would submit to the Genment's Comptroller
General for audit by March 31 of each year the Iblkwing inirmation on the
project accounts:
(a)   overal consolidated statement of sources and application of
fimds, with comments on the most significant changes with
regard to the previous year;
(b)   a report on its system of internal control (both financil and
operational);
(c)   a report on the corective actions kn  in response to the
opinions and recommendations made by the auditor in the
report of the previous period;
(d)   a report and its comments on the movement of the special
account aing into consideration the time intervals between the
date of ependitues, approval of disbUrsements, and WiLsr
to participating municipalities and executing agencies;
(e)   a report showing and analyzing budget eocution during the
year, compared with initial   opriations and budget
execution during the previous years; and
(f)   all documentation supporting the statement of expenditures.
Content of the Audit Reports
3.          The auditorDs report should provide the audited consolidated
financial statement for the project and express an opinion on the fairness with
which they are pxesented. The auditor would also report on:
(a)   compliance by MCA with its obligations under the project Thbis
would be covered in the audit of project accounts, SOEs and
special accounts,);



-46-
ANNEX 9
(a)   compliance by MOA with its obligatons under the projct This
would be covered in the audit of project accounts, SOEs and
upecial accounts,';
(b)   tie system of internal control (financial and opwAtions);
(c)   correctve measures aken by MOA in mesponse to obsevations
and recommendations made in the previous report; and
(d) the accounting system used.
lmng of             of Audi Reports
4.          MOA should forward to the Bank the audit report(s) no lat1r
than six months afker the end of the Colombian fiscal year.
MICIARMANN9AW



-47-
ANNEX 10
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TECENOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Criteria for Subproject Sdectlon
MCU
SIg I       Receve Proposals.
Stage 2     Enter Proposals in Database showing for each one:
ID Number
Thie
Executing Agency
Project data (see profile)
Annuallbtal Cost data (see profile)
Funds requested from PRONATrA (se profile)
Origin of request
Department
Type of Fbcuting Agency
Subsector
Stage 3     SCREEN for duplication and DISCARD duplicates
Stage 4     SCREEN for meeting project criteia
(a)   Is duration tbree yes  or less
(b)   Is average cost of total project US$50,000 or
les per annum
(c)   Do funds requested comply with approprate co-
fnancial nonns (40%, 50%, 100%)
(d)   Do objectives confborm to policy criteria of:
&ie  MODERNIZATION though
strengthening efficiency, equity, sustaiabilit or
development of scientiflc capacity
gi DECENTRALIZATION thrugh
strengthening Department Secrtaiats or
UMATAS in a way that meets hrmers needs.
DISCARD all projects that have a 'no' answe to any of the
bur quesfons.
htage S     AWARD A QUALITY SCORE (0-100) to each rmaininig
project. (For 1994 use ICAs scoring system then have the



-48-
ANNEX 10
Pancl revise this and the Consejo discuss It for subsequent
cvaluadons).
DISCARD projects which do not score an agreed minimum
number of points.
Slsge 6     SORr the database into three:
Research
Adjustnent and Ichnology Transfer
Tlaining
Stage 7      REPARE a p sional summary for the database in order to
gain an idea of the degree of further screening needed eg., for
the first semester of 1994 the Summary at this stage might
look like this:
Eligible       Target for      Target for
Project      Panel to see       Panel to
recommend
Research                     90              40               20
Adjustnent and              150               60              20
-ansfer              _
Tkaining                     15               15              10
Ibtal                       255              115              50



-49-            !110
m - Tr-r- ln 1 1- 1 - - -
2- - - T-                   -  
I;                         i    _        _~    ___ 
;~~       - -2 __ _ _- _ _ _   _____ _
ss-     -}      i - -- --         - -
^  _ 5 D-- _ - __                - _ __  _- _  _
a Sis______________T 
g~ -    -        m  - _-- _ _-            



-50-
ANNEX 10
Stage 9     SCREEN at the Departmental level leaving a maxium  of 2-4
projects per deparment and say SO projoct nationally to
reduce the portfolio to the panel tuget shown in Stage 7.
This is the most difficult and subjective part of the screeing to
date and needs to be carried out very careully.
Stage 10    PRINT a set of Portfolio tables eg., as follows:
Table 1: By Department
Department        No. of Projects       PRONATTA REQUEST
AMAZONAS         No.          %            N
I
VICHADA-
TA tal               I            I            I
Ibble 2: By ENTITY            CORPOICA
Other Govt
Universities
lIbble 3: By GoWt. Priorities  List to be defined
Mible 4: By Subsector         Agriculture
Fisheries
eMC.
Stage 11    REVIEW and MODIFY the data by iting the
Departmtal MLbles in Stage 8 and the Pbrtfolio bble in
Stage 10 to arrive at an    oximation of the targets hown in
Stage 7.
Stage 12    PRINT a revised set of portfolios and a summary of each
prqect justfying why it is being recommended and PRESENT
this to the Panel.
PANEL
Sbtge 1     JIF1Er  Selecton to reduce it to taget numberslcat.
Stae 2      PRINT, REVIEW AND MODIFY the new portios



-51-
ANN3X 10
Stage 3     PRINT a revised set of portfolos and PRESET to the
Consejo with a brief note justifying each recommendadon of
the panel.



-52-                   ANNB 1
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Enulronmental Checklist and Key Screening and Monitoring Facto
1.          The project will promote research activities that will incrase
agricultral productvity that will ultimately have environmental impacts.
Almost any agrcultural development project would involve disurbance of dte
land surface. When the area is small, the impact would also lily be small;
hower, the cumulative impacts of many small disturbuaces can be
substantial. The kinds of alterations to the land that are of concern are as
folows:
O    clearing and/or paving (roads and highways, largscle
housing projects);
o    topsoil removal and grading;
O    flling (wetlands, coastal zone managemet, roads and
highways);
o    draining (wetlands); and
o    cultivation (agricultural management, forestry).
2.          Research subprojects should be screened on the following
o    environmental impacts of site prepardon fbr a
particular agricultural activity;
o    gowth rats of the crop, agroforstry, or plantaio;
o    weed problems and the presence of pests and dwawe
O    management treatments - if being done properly and
according to schedule;
O    market trends and distnbution of revenues and benets
from the larger scale opeadns;
o    pressure on agriculture, land tenure, natural lbrests and
environmental impacts of harvesting; and
O    long-term viability of the agricultural enterprise from
ecological, economic and manageil standpointL



-53-                  ANN)      11
3.          To fully evaluate the NAITP and the project, monitoring plans
should include baselne data and periodic review of objectives. Typial
profiles can be developed for research programs such as agroforestry,
exmtsion, institutional development, erosion and sedimentation impacts
associated with small civil works and the effect on local and regional society
and govemment.



-54-
ANNEX 12
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TCNOLOGY DEVELOPMON PROJECr
Summary Tenus of Reference for Mijor Consultant Services
lb be Sarted in Year One of the Project
1.   Impl     t a System for Monitoring and Evaluating the Project
Objectlve: lb refine and implement a system to: (a) monitor the
implementation of research subprojects financed under the project to ensue
that projects are being implemented in a timely and cost effective fashion as
per the cofinancing contacts; and (b) ealuate the completed subprojects to
detrmine if they were successul in meeting their objectives.
Scope: The consultants would assist the MCU to undertake the fllowig:.
(a) prepare working guidelines for monitoring, evaluation and envinl
impact and finalize the proposed checklists; (b) establsh the methodology to
siect from the ongoing subprojects those that would be visited; (c) prepare
ample reorts for field monitoring visits and evaluation visits; (d) establisH
the methodology tD take follow-up action on subprojects where
problems/actons have been identified; and (e) implement the above system
with hands-on taining provided to the staff of the TDU.
J-mplemetatlon  Consultants would be hired under TOR accepble t the
Bank to work with MCU on the implementation of the above system.
hnplementation should put in pace a system of periodic visits of a sampling
o ongoing subprojects and a review of completed subprojects with sampling
field reviews usig standard check lists.
Duration: Four moinths
2.    Unoversity Astship Program
Objective: Develop a program to provide scholarships to about 80 students
for posaduate t    g to the Msc level through participation in resh
subrojects financed under the projet.
Scope: Spell out the ful deils of the program including: promotion,
student selection, project selection and implemnting entity parficipation,
elgible costs covered by the program, disbursement of funds, and evaluation
of student participation and other reporting requirments.
Impl n;o,tatin-: Cosulatnts would be hired to assist with the preparation
of a detailed program, including the annual budget for this compoent.
Diurtion: Five months



-55-
ANNEX 12
COLWMBI
AGRICULTURAL TENOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
3.    Agricultural Rsearch  Ioatin Systm
Objectlve: Undertake a detailed study to design a cost effective, susinable
minrmation system for agricultual tchmology that would define and mnt the
basic information rqu   s of small farmers and die UMATAs, regional
research centea, researchers and entities participatin the project Once
the system is accepted, equipment would be purchased, data bases
constructed, training pwvided and the system implemented.
Scope: The study should be in the form of a feasibility study and include in
the table of contents: objectives and benefits; description of the system and
its operaton (including the software and hardware requiments); the capitl
anc operating costs including the annual budget; financing; implementation;
and sustaiability.
Implementation: Consultants would be hired to assist MCU with the
preparation of a detailed information system which would be approved by the
MOA, and the Bank. The consultants would also assist with the
implementation of the system including training to paricipants.
Duration: Design - five months, Purchase Equipment - four months, and
Implementation - three months.
cm1.l



-56-       ANNEX 13
C t- jU----6-' X
. .. .... .1...'-n , 
.       . . .....-.....     n 
I~~I
iii



_  TIkNuI2 0 Q4QI Q4j.                                 2 j     03 1  01  02  03   04 1 1       a2 I 6  I
D3             Pr.pmT                         I a
24                          I C                                                       i
'7             ""for  Uw
"            __H          -CW3                5                                       !
_         _                   ~i                                I                    
_?h_l                                                                                                   I-i5 
34             PoapmD            ~                                  
3.~~ hvIi                                                                    i                    i
34       thv dvy As    I                                                                  m
_1              Hh Coml                                   
I T=1 f ~~~~I *'_   !                                                                                I  
PhwOn P_
41           IdUega
42             DutT                *'
"          ~~~~HhCe   l          |! ff
Pr1o Ag TowW Dw                                                    I                   i 
DoW~~~ 3_/9  .mr                                Rde Upi STsmt_            RbkpPt
Rond RUp Msg  O
Pop 2



-58-
ANNE 13
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Pag 3 of 3
PROJEC =UPUVJSION
Bo&k Staff Inputs for    ject Supervisin
1         fAnicipad       nput in Staff
Apprman                                                  Skil            Fed lTim
Dam                     Aci"vity                   i mu                (bk
Decomber 1994       Review cosAltan  work, eview   Ibk Maer
ptfoo pamumemn ant wxk         ExiondaofRs. Spec            1
plan for 199S
Jaary 1995          FinSmvised Loan Agreeme                      Spe.       DeA revis
for appival by Borrower        Lavyr
Review consultano   prohUmr    lk Mage
wk on the daed supevision
_tsygm, OM and other doceL
Mr 199 1Sision afir effedves to                     l_sk Manar                   1
review IebOactw finaning,      Rewazuk Speciai i
eial account amnezmen
gafflag tasimg e__                                            _
iuly 199S           Review implemenbdion of         E _o P  Spec.                3
.zpervaszon ym,  ag    n       Fin. AnalydnL Sp.            2
scope of iomatio rystem,
implementation plan for second
semecr, poposed budgot for
___ __   1996
January 1996        Supevision Mission              ExbnonftRe Spec.             2
July 1996           Supervision Mision, rview       ExnsioRea. Specw.            2
1OR for Perwrmance Report,     Fin. AnIhyd/inaL Sp.         2
Prposd budgt for 1997             _
Jimmy 1997          Supervision Minon, meet with    Exmension/ae. Spec.          2
consaultnts re Pwrformance
Report
Juneuly 1997         Supervision mison, mid-rm      ExlensionlRs Spec            3
mviow with Govrnment and       Fin. Anday.l)L Sp.           3
Prpoed Budupt for 1998         Rareb Conunan                3



-59 -                     ANNEX 14
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUNlEN'S AND DATA
AVADLABLE IN THE PROJECT FLE
L .    eApprisa and A_praisa Mis3ion Rerts
1.   Technical Assistance Component - M. McMahon - April, 1993
- English.
2.   Institutional Aspects of the Technical Assistance Component to
Strengthen The Departmnental Agricultural Secretariats -
Ricardo Varps del Valle - May 1993 - English.
3.   Technology Generation and Transfer Component - B Neslel -
July 1993 - English.
4.   Training in SINTAP - J. Arboleda - May 1993 - English.
5.   Organization and Operation of PRONATA - P. Amaya - May
1993 - English.
6.   Unidad de Direcci6n y Coordinaci6n - M4NAG - P. Amaya -
July 1993 - Spanish. *
7.   Componente de Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n, Promoci6n y
Divulgaci6n del PRONATIA - P. Amaya - July 1993 -
Spanish.
8.   Panel de Expertos - P. Amaya - July 1993 - Spanish.*
9.   Componente de Capacitaoi6n en Gesti6n del PRONATIA -
P. Amaya - July 1993 - Spanish.
10.   Propuesta para la Creaci6n de los Centros de Desarrollo
Tecnolfgico Regional - CRECEDS - P. Amaya - July 1993 -
Spanish.
11.   Pryecto Apoyo a la Realizaci6n de Tsis de Grado a Nivel de
Maestrfa - P. Amaya - July 1993 - 'Spanish.
12.   Unidad de Desarrolo  bcnol6gico - C-lDU - ICA - P. Amaya -
July 1993 - Spanish.*
13.   Propuesta de Prestaci6n de Servicios al ICA - Fiduciario -
P. Amaya - July 1993 - Spanish.



- 60 -                   ANNEX 14
14. Analysis of the First 1,100 Subprojects for Financing -
R Nestel - July 1993 - English.
15. Unidad de Direcci6n y Coordinaci6n (SAR annex fobmat).
16.   Panel of Experts (SAR annex format).
17.   Technology Development Unit (SAR annex format).
18.   Detailed Cost Ibbles.
19.   Proposed 1994 and 1995 budgets for MOAIMCU and
ICAITDU.
11. Other Selected Documents Available in the Prolect File
1.   (a)   Resolution 812 of December 1994, Resolution 476 of
August 1994 and Resolution No. 429, dated June 25,
1993, from the Vice Minister of Agriculue creating
the Executive Council for PRONATrA and the
Management Coordinating Unit - Spanish. *
(b)   Appointment of Mr. Luis Arango - Project
Coordinator- MCU.
2.   Promotion of Projects and Executing Agencies - MOA - May
1993 - Spanish.
3.   Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire - May 1993 - Spanish.
4.   Interactions in the Public and Private Sector in Agricultual
Research - C A. Falconi - April 1993 - Spanish.
5.   List of Shareholders of the Corporaci6n Colombiana de
Investigaci6n Agropecuaria - June 1993.
6.   Corporaci6n Colombiana de Investigaci6n Agropecuaria -
Statutes - November 1992 - Spanish.
7.   El Municipio Unidad Bbsica para el Dcsamollo Agropecuario,
L. Medina, N. Mejia - February 1991 - Spanish.
S.   Restruchuing of InstitMo Colombiano Agropecuario - ICA -
Decree 2141 - December 30, 1992 - Spanish.
9.   Ogation and Function of the lbchnology Development
Unit in ICA - June 1993 - Spanish.



-61-                     ANNEX 14
10.   Restructuring of Fondo de Cofinanciaci6n para a Inversifn
Rural - DRI - Decree 2132 - December 1992 - Spanish.
11.   El Sistema Contable del PRONATTA - MOA - June 1993 -
Spanish.
12.   Programaci6n y Presupuesto del PRONAITA - MOA -
June 1993 - Spanish.
13.   Unidad de Direcci6n y Coordinaci6n (Organizaci6m y Plan
Operativo 1994) - MOA - June 1993 - Spanish.
14.  (a)   Reglamento Operativo - Unidad de Direcci6n y
Coordinaci6n MOA - June 1993 - Spanish.
(b)   Reglamento Operativo - ICA - June 1993 - Spanish.
15.   The General Statutes for Contracting by Public Administations
(Fiduciario) - Government - 1993 - Spanish.
16.   CONPES Document Authorizing the National Covenment to
Borrow from the World Bank for the Project - CONPES,
June 22, 1993 - Spanish.
17.   Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire - July 1993 - Spanish.*
18.   Bilateral Ag. Research and Development Fund (BARD) - US -
Israel - Guidelines for Grant Applications - 1991 - Engiis.
19.   Sistema Nacional de fTansferencia de Tecnologfa (SINTAP) -
Outline of System - Spanish.
20.   Decree No. 2379 Covering the Provision of Technical
Assistance to Small Farmers - October 1991 - Spanish.
21.   Creation of the TDU and selection of key staff - Resolution
No. 4796, dated August 9, 1993 - No. 5388 - dated
October 26, 1993, and No. 1468 - dated April 19, 1994.
22.   Estimated Retro-Active Financing Costs for 1993. *
23.   Review Panel Project Selection Process - B. Nestel.
24.   Creation of the National Panel and Regional Panels -
Resolution No. 00632 - dated August 11, 1993 - and the
selecfion of the 7 panel members.
25.   Ayuda Memoria - Prepared by MINAG after the Appraisal
Mission - August 1993.



- 62 -                    ANNEX 14
Note: Items marked with an * are contained in the three volume document
prepared by MINAG and labelled 'Ayuda Memoria.



COLOMBIA                                                                  7A*                                     2 !
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY                                                                                                               A
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                              -
*    National Research Centers
A    Regional Reserch Centers                                                                  RbHAC A         
*    Experinient Stations
P-nedTrunk Roads                                                S-T.UM,               D.W 
Po-ed Radst
Lpv-ed RootI
Railroads                                                           __
.Railro`odDiscontirand                         ATLANTIC)                                                                 _
In ternational airports
t   Paved AirportsA
*   Unpavedirparts                                                          .
so' Snparts                               c
4,  River Parts
-.--Rivers
ur                   DeparTment Re8 .do.ies d'0i
_ -   erroalo  ndories u,datkt
CE S,AR;
'_E ~~hoe t3J300                '        peA9  
wmipO -3,pc0          T.t .i
r1                Jptot            ''I    -.-                                                                                         .   
PANAMA                                         .                         A
-,~~~~~~~~~~~A
r         '                             -- 'I'a.s-,e                                                       CA (3U ET As&_,
ECUADOR                              ,\N                      S ORD_13A
_d-t_%nr -'rn                                                                    ttCOI ^      - .        r,.
T a << < ,: , , , woo D.""K~~~~~~~~~~v-l U
'I  ~~~' n7
'V  X                                      %,a.,o.... ~~~~~~~~~~L.t               ARJV~~~N CAR
_~~~~~~~~~~~ A., O ,v.                                                 tS   *s u              -4mmo o    a.  =. .. 
pac,hc oILaS                                                                                                                                           E  d.I
-V                                                       d5~~~~~~~C    .,e  -o               tand.Lno
Qv.CnA . C         -A
CHC)CO    -'       9w...  r..s~~~~~w                                              Ct~~StMAAAMA
N1ci/ A OcoR INI
L                   -6                  CAQUETA~~                                           - 
A..  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T  PUTIJ                                                        E C 11 A D 0 R                                  BRAZIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVEEZEL
ECUADORc                                                                                                 PeaaM
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~PR
0 ~ ~ ~      ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ r...                                                                                                 .s,s.~ 
<                                                                                                           2w~~~~~~~    e0~   anea.
TILOMETERS                                                                                                                             -tA



