                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28961

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (CPL-38710)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 51 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA


                                                FOR AN

                     AGRICULTURE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 15, 2004




ESSD Sector Management Unit
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2003)

                                             Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (COP)
                                             2778.21 COP = US$ 1.00
                                          US$ 0.0003599 = 1 COP

                                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                               January 1 ­ December 31

                                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNAA        Annual Net Benefit (Beneficio neto anual actualizado)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CORPOICA    Colombian Corporation for Agricultural Research (Corporacion Colombiana de investigacion agropecuaria)
DFID        Department for International Development (UK)
ECOFONDO    Fund for financing of Environmental projects (Fondo para la financiación de proyectos del medioambiente)
ESSD        Environmentally Sustainable Social Development
FAJA        Administrative Financial and Legal Unit (Unidad administrativa, financiera y jurídica)
FOREC       Fund for the reconstruction of the coffee region (Fondo para la Reconstrucción del eje cafetero de la Presidencia de la
            Republica)
FRR         Financial Rate of Return (Tasa de retorno financiera)
GREMIOS     Producer Organization (Organicacion del productores)
ICA         Colombian Agricultural Institute (Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario)
ICB         International competitive bidding (Licitación publica internacional)
ICR         Implementation Completion Report (Informe Final del ejecución del Prestatario)
IICA        Inter. American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation (Instituto Interamericano de Cooperación para la Agricultura)
ILI         Learning ICR
IRR         Internal Rate of Return (Tasa interna de retorno)
LCSER       Latin America and the Caribbean Rural Development Family
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
M.A.        Master of Arts
MADR        Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Ministerio de Agricultura y Desarrollo Rural)
MCU         The Coordination Unit (Unidad Coordinadora)
MTR         Mid Term Review (Evaluación de medio termino)
NBF         Not Bank financed
NCU         Central Coordination Unit (Unidad Coordinadora Central)
NGO         Non Governmental Organizations (Organizaciones no Gubernamentales ONG)
NPV         Net Present Value (Valor presenté Neto VPN)
OCC         Opportunity Cost of Capital
PAD         Project Appraisal Document (Documento de Valoración del Proyecto)
PAM         Municipal Agricultural Program (Programa Agropecuario Municipal)
PCD         Project Concept Document (Documento de Concepto de Proyecto)
PRONATTA    Agriculture Technology Development Project (Proyecto de Desarrollo Tecnológico Agropecuario (Programa Nacional de
            Transferencia de Tecnología Agropecuaria)
PSR         Project Status Report (Informe del estado del proyecto)
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
RCU         Regional Coordination Unit (Unidades coordinadores regionales UCR)
RED         Technological development and institutional strengthening network (Red de Capacitacion y Fortalecimiento institucional)
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SINTAP      National System for Agricultural Technology Transfer (Sistema Nacional de Transferencia de Tecnología Agropecuaria)
SITA        Information System for Agricultural Technology (Sistema de información tecnológica agropecuaria)
SNCTA       National System of Agricultural Science and Technology (Sistema nacional de ciencia y tecnología agropecuaria)
UMATA       Muncipal Unit for Agricultural Assistance (Unidad Municipal de Asistencia Técnica Agropecuaria)
VAT         Value added tax




                                          Vice President:              David de Ferranti
                                       Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero
                                          Sector Director:             John Redwood
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                           Mathew A. McMahon

                                         COLOMBIA
                        Agriculture Technology Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Subproject and Training Workshops                                       27
Annex 9. Borrower ICR                                                            29
Map: Colombia IBRD 33293

Project ID: P006880                                                                   Project Name: Agriculture Technology Development
                                                                                      Project
Team Leader: Matthew A. Mcmahon                                                       TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                                    Report Date: June 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                        Name: Agriculture Technology Development Project                             L/C/TF Number: CPL-38710
    Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                                                 Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                                          Caribbean Region

          Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (54%); Sub-national
                                  government administration (38%); Central government
                                  administration (8%)
                      Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Participation and civic
                                  engagement (P); Decentralization (P); Technology diffusion (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                                   Original                   Revised/Actual
              PCD: 07/20/1990                                                 Effective: 07/20/1995                      08/25/1995
       Appraisal: 03/24/1995                                                        MTR: 10/01/1998                      09/14/1998
        Approval: 04/20/1995                                                   Closing: 12/31/2001                       12/31/2003



     Borrower/Implementing Agency:                  GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
                           Other Partners:          Participating Organizations, Municipalities and Beneficiaries.

STAFF                                 Current                                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:                       David de Ferranti                                           Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:                     Isabel M. Guerrero                                          Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:                       Mark Cackler                                                Vicente Ferrer
Team Leader at ICR:                   Matthew A. McMahon                                          Willliam B. Johnson
ICR Primary Author:                   Matthew A. McMahon & Indira
                                      Ekanayake; supported by: Zhong
                                      Tong; Samuel Taffesse &
                                      Santiago Sandoval.


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                 Outcome:           S
                          Sustainability:           L
   Institutional Development Impact:                SU
                    Bank Performance:               S
               Borrower Performance:                S


                                                                  QAG (if available)                     ICR
                                         Quality at Entry:                                               S
                          Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Due to the earthquake of 1999, resources were to be redirected to Reconstruction risking to make the Project not viable.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The development objective of the Project as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, Report No.
12236-CD, dated March 24, 1995) was to change the agricultural research culture of Colombia in
accordance with the Government policies on decentralization of technological development, and
privatization of the Colombian agriculture with emphasis on transfer of agricultural technologies to the
small farmers. The research and technology transfer funded under the Project was expected to reduce
rural poverty, increase the rural employment, and improve the competitiveness of Colombia's agricultural
producers.

The specific objectives were to: a) Improve the quality and efficiency of agricultural research and
technology transfer by introducing a demand-driven, competitive selection system that would be
cofinanced by private and public sector entities; b)          Strengthen the institutional capacity of the
agricultural sector in the development and testing of technical packages especially appropriate for small
farmers; c) Revitalize underused assets, both physical and human, that presently exist within Colombia's
research and technology transfer system; d) Promote private sector participation in agricultural research
and technology transfer; and e) Support decentralization by strengthening regional participation and
identification of regional priorities and by supporting municipal extension services.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objectives remained unchanged throughout the life of the Project.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project financed two main components:            1) Technology development and adaptation, and      2)
Institutional development. The technology development component included demand-driven investments
in two subcomponents: a) Strategic and applied research, and b) Adaptive research. The institutional
development component included investments in seven subcomponents:                (i) Establishment of the
Coordination Unit (MCU) in the Ministry of Agriculture (MADR), and a National Panel to provide technical
assistance and to assist with the implementation of a supervision system; (ii) Program promotion; (iii)
Supervision; (iv) Strengthening the regions and setting up Regional Panels to assist in the selection of
subprojects; (v) Training professionals and technical staff in available technologies and subproject
preparation; (vi) Establishment of a University Assistantship Program; and (vii) Establishment of an
Information System on Agricultural Technology (SITA).

Total Project Cost: US$ 84 million (the sum of the World Bank Loan plus cofinancing).

3.3.1. The Technology Development and Adaptation Component was designed to cover
demand-driven investments in strategic, applied and adaptive agricultural research.          The selection
process of subprojects for investment was decentralized and based on criteria reflecting the national and
regional priorities for research on agricultural technology development and training. At the regional
(nodal) level, research needs were prioritized to establish `project profiles', with descriptions of the
prioritized problems, and their importance and magnitude. In this manner each regional node had a
prioritized list of research projects. Research subprojects also included socioeconomic aspects and
employed environmentally sound technologies.

Sub-component 1.1: Strategic and applied research. Total Cost: US$ 26.78 million.
The strategic research subcomponent encompassed subprojects directed towards the medium-term
national priorities, while the applied research funding supported those subprojects having a potential
immediate use to the farmers.

Sub-component 1.2: Adaptive research. Total Cost: US$ 26.78 million.
Technology-transfer subprojects included demonstration trials, field days, and training, where the



                                                      - 2 -

technologies generated at the experimental stations, were tested, adjusted and approved under
representative ecological conditions before being transferred to the extensionists and farmers.

3.3.2.   The Institutional Development Component included the establishment of a central level
Coordinating unit (MCU) in the MADR, to oversee the project coordination and promotion among the
various participating organizations, as well as being responsible for monitoring and quality control
activities. The Project Coordinating Director of MCU also acted as Technical Secretary of the Executive
Committee of the Project that represented high level national leadership. The Project established five
Regional Coordination Units each of which had full time professional, technical and administrative staff.
Five Regional panels, one per each geographical region, were in charge of prioritization of the subproject
proposals, with decentralized autonomy and ex ante and ex post evaluations. These Panels using the
above described (section 3.3.1.) regional priorities and `project profiles' evaluated the subproject
proposals at the regional level and the selected proposals were presented to the MCU. The MCU
supported by a National Panel then assessed these subproject proposals for technical quality and
submitted the selected subproject proposals to the Executive Committee for its no objection. Contracting
of approved subproject proposals and monitoring and evaluation of the subprojects was done by the
MCU.

The other key institutional development component activities carried out by the MCU were: a) Project
promotion activities; b) technical assistance to help with implementation of a supervision system,
Project mid-term review, and impact assessment; c) Training programs on available, effective and
relevant technologies and subproject formulation and management for researchers, field technicians,
and other professionals at national, regional, and municipal levels, and the methodologies of technical
assistance to the farmers; d) establishment of a University Assistantship Program to link academic
studies with practical research work; and e) establishment of a system to meet agricultural technology
information requirements at the departmental and municipal levels.

Sub-component 2.1:          Establishment of Coordination Unit (MCU) in the Ministry of Agriculture
                            (MOA) & National Panel. Total Cost: US$ 4.63 million

Sub-component 2.2:          Program promotion. Total Cost: US$ 1.11 million

Sub-component 2.3:          Supervision. Total Cost: US$ 1.38 million

Sub-component 2.4:          Strengthening the regions. Total Cost: US$ 9.63 million

Sub-component 2.5:          Training in available technologies & subproject preparation. Total Cost:
                            US$10.24 million

Sub-component 2.6:          Establishment of a University Assistantship Program. Total Cost: US$ 0.9
                            million

Sub-component 2.7:          Establishment of an Information System on Agricultural Technology (SITA).
                            Total Cost: US$ 2.55 million

3.4 Revised Components:

The original components of the Project basically remained unchanged during the implementation with a
few exceptions as described below. These revisions, however, did not amount to a restructuring of the
original components or a change in project objectives.

i) At the request of the Government of Colombia to the World Bank (August 12, 1999), US$15 million of
the original loan was reallocated for an emergency disaster relief program to assist the earthquake
(January 1999) affected areas for the purpose of reconstructing their housing facilities and to finance the
President's Fund for the reconstruction of the coffee region (FOREC). This amount was removed from
the sub-component on technology development and adaptation, which therefore reduced the amount of



                                                    - 3 -

the Competitive Grant Fund to support research subprojects in this theme.

ii) A cancellation total of US$ 4.208 million from the Project as per the Project credit report produced by
the MADR dated April 30, 2004, includes: a) US$ 3.501 million requested (September 04, 2003) and
approved due to the unavailability of government counterpart funding to support the Competitive Grant
Fund on technology development and adaptation; b) US$ 0.503 million from various categories of
funding for inability to fully use allocated funds on the agreed activities;      c) US$ 0.079 million for
reimbursement of funds not utilized; and d) US$ 0.125 million reimbursement for double charging.

iii) Under the component of institutional development, the university assistantship program was revised.
Originally, the program was designed to: a) assist in linking the academic studies with practical research
work and b) help students at accredited faculties of agronomy in the Colombian universities to complete
their graduate work requirements for the M.A. degree. However, during implementation, this program
was revised to support more of short-term training in agricultural technology instead of the higher-level
university degree training. Under this revised program a total of 336 internships were financed.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Overall, the Quality at Entry (appropriateness of Project concept, objectives and approach) of the Project
was rated satisfactory by the ICR Review.

i) The quality of the Project design at entry was fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS Report No. R93-198 for Colombia, dated November 19, 1993 and presented to the World Bank
Board on December 16, 1993) and supported three broad objectives: 1) private sector development, 2)
poverty reduction, and 3) institutional strengthening;

ii) The Project objectives were consistent with the Colombian Government strategy to: a) Strengthen
and reform the agricultural research and extension system in order to provide improved services to the
small farmers; b) Increase agricultural productivity by introducing a competitive and modernized system;
and c) Encourage the private sector participation in agricultural research;

iii) The Project also supported the Government policy of Colombia: a) In decentralizing the agricultural
research and extension system; b) Focusing on the problems of small farmers; c) Leveraging additional
resources from participants while enhancing the inter-institutional collaboration; and d) Strengthening of
the involvement of private sector, NGOs, and academic institutions in agricultural research;

iv) The Project was designed to build on the Bank's experiences with the earlier Agricultural Research
and Extension Project (Loan 2303-CO) in Colombia;

v) The Project preparation and appraisal were well managed by both the Bank and the Borrower; and
even though the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not review the Project, two impact analyses
conducted by the Project highlights the positive outcome; and

vi) The assumptions at entry on a decentralized policy environment and a favorable market system
during Project implementation helped in its satisfactory completion. In addition, the regional and local
organizational capacity responded positively to the proposed new culture of research and technology
transfer by the Project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall Project outcome and achievement of its objectives as stated in the SAR (1995) are rated as
satisfactory.

4.1.1 Reform and decentralization of the Agricultural technology system. The Project was consistent with
the Government's goal of reforming and decentralizing the agricultural research and extension system
and the most recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Report No. 25129-CO dated December 24, 2002)
for Colombia.     Changes that occurred during Project implementation resulted in a new institutional
culture in the agricultural technology sub sector. Such changes included the allocation of public funds
through competitive grants, decentralization, the synergy among institutions, and the formulation of
demand-driven subprojects. The proportion of subprojects approved by region illustrates the positive



                                                    - 4 -

effects of decentralization: Centro Oriente (29.8%), Occidente (29%), Orinoquia (16.7%), Costa Caribe
(16.1%) and Amazonia (8.5%) (Annex 1 Table 1a).

4.1.2 Establishment of a Competitive Funding Model.             The Project developed a new model of
Competitive Funding for Colombia to allocate agricultural technology funds that is decentralized and
efficient in apportioning and executing public resources nation-wide to generate and transfer technology.
During the Project implementation phase, this model became well accepted in the Colombian National
System of Agricultural Science and Technology (SNCTA). This strategic approach in fund allocation
took into account that: a) The availability of newly generated and improved agricultural technological
knowledge targeted to low-income farmers had increased considerably; b) There is a growing demand
for new technological knowledge at both regional and local levels; and c) The existence of a pluralistic
system of technological development in Colombia that is handled by a larger number of entities.
According to the impact analysis of the Project, 98% of the subprojects had satisfactory outcomes
(Annex 1 Table 1a).

4.1.3 Successful leverage of Counterpart funding. The Project was highly satisfactory in its leverage of
counterpart funding to carryout the objectives. For each dollar invested in technological research and
training, the total counterpart funds leveraged by the Project was 0.86 dollar.         These counterpart
contributions included funds from those entities that executed the subprojects at regional and national
levels, various public sources of funding, and private sector funds.

4.1.4. Broad inclusion of agricultural sub sectors of the rural sector. The Project covered the full range of
the Colombian agricultural sub sectors and the subprojects financed included: 63.9% in agriculture,
15.9% in animal husbandry, 8.6% in multi-sub sectors, 3.7% forestry, 5.4% in aquaculture, and 2.5% in
natural resources; and represented more than 30 different products. This sub sector distribution reflected
the regional priority profiles.

4.1.5. Reaching the stakeholder plurality and private sector participation in the Agricultural Sector. The
Project through its competitive funding scheme reached a large proportion of the stakeholders and
synergised the existing public organizations dedicated to the generation and transfer of technology, as
well as creates linkages with other entities and stakeholders.         Project impact analysis (Sain, 2004)
indicated that temporary associations and alliances implemented more than 27% of the co-financed
subprojects. The private sector participation in the Competitive Grant subprojects administered by the
Project increased considerably during the Project life. According to latest estimations (Annex 1 Table
1a) 14% of subproject co-financing was by NGOs, 5.9% by other private entities, and 12.5 by alliances
between private and public sector entities.

4.1.6. Adoption of transferred agricultural technologies. The Project impact evaluation (Sain, 2004)
showed that nationwide there was a 32% rate of adoption of technologies during the implementation
phase. The satisfactory level of adoption was due to: a) The suitability of the advocated agricultural
technologies by the Project to rural circumstances and specific problems of small farmers; b) the
satisfactory level of training provided by the Project; and c) the ability and dedication of extension
agents involved in technology dissemination activities.

4.1.7. Contributions to competitiveness, social equity and income generation. According to the impact
evaluation and using equity criteria (PRONATTA, 2004) 70.7 percent of the subprojects showed a high
level of acceptance by small producers.        About 66.1% of the subprojects were adequate to the
socioeconomic conditions of the producers, and likewise, 56.8 percent of the subprojects related to
genetic resources and natural resources management scored high based on indicators measuring the
sustainability and environmental impact of outputs. The factors that contributed most to competitiveness
criteria (Echeverri, 2002) were: input into favorable positioning for markets (62.6%), improved
productivity (64.7%), market-related risk mitigation (50.6%), and improved management conditions
related to inputs, resource use, and processes. The average annual household income of producers
increased by US$ 1,533 (Pesos 4.26 million) (Sain, 2004) as a result of adoption of the developed
technological options; a level that was satisfactory for this type of technology projects. The increase in
income was a result of increased productivity and employment (Annex 1 Table 1a).

4.1.8 Regional and local planning strengthened. The Project strengthened the process of regional and
local planning in agricultural technology in a number of ways, such as: a) setting up regional nodes; b)



                                                    - 5 -

establishing a Network of stakeholders; and c) institutional strengthening at the municipality level
(UMATAs).

4.1.9 Efficient project management. The Project was managed with a high level of transparency using
the competitive fund model (Annex 1 Tables 1a and 1b). This resulted in the Project having a high level
of credibility among the clients at central, regional, and local levels. Operational costs were 12.1% of the
total (Annex 1 Table 1b).

4.2 Outputs by components:

Project performance by component was continuously judged by the Bank as satisfactory according to the
project supervision and mission reports.


4.2.1    Technology Development and Adaptation Component. This Project component is scored as
satisfactory based on the following project outputs:

i) Establishment of an operational model for Competitive Grants to allocate and manage the Project
financial resources. The competitive grant scheme was characterized by the efficient delivery of public
funds (100% budgetary resource delivery) using well-defined operational principles established during
the six respective Calls for proposals with open and non-restrictive participation of all beneficiaries. This
approach utilized the available idle physical and human capacities in different institutions of the system
(the fund cofinanced 635 subprojects at a total cost of US$ 32,611,134.53 (Pesos 90,600,580,073)
including the counterpart financing of implementing partners) and created an important institutional
synergy as indicated by the active participation of alliances (27%) to implement the subprojects. This
model of allocation and implementation of public resources is currently well accepted by the National
Agricultural Science and Technology System of Colombia. Moreover this model was adopted by MADR
through the Metaplan, the instrument of orientation and planning of sectoral policies of the present
administration and by the Directorate of Technology Development and Sanitation Protection of MADR.

ii)  Decentralized and regionalized mode of operation and portfolio of subprojects. Regional panels
under this component evaluated 2,948 sub projects ex-ante and prioritized these proposals according to
the terms of reference of the 6 Calls for proposals.         It consolidated an extensive portfolio of 635
subprojects on technology development (research and training) of which 98 percent were completed
according to the stated subproject objectives. The experience of this decentralized strategy must be
taken into account in the design of sector policies of the country.

iii) The institutional culture promoted by the Project has substantially modified the institutional behavior
in technology generation and transfer sub sector. The new culture is aligned towards the demand of
technology users, and by using competitive mechanisms for resource allocation shows the importance of
synergy among different institutions to realize a more efficient approach to management of public funds.

iv)    The portfolio of technological packages. Subprojects under this component generated and
disseminated more than 600 technological packages with about 3600 innovations (on average 5.7
innovation per technological package) that reached more than 150,000 direct beneficiaries (small
producers) (Sain, 2004). The technological package portfolio coincides with the particular characteristics
of the small farmers as demonstrated by the high level of adoption and profitability (Annex 1 Table 1a).
Moreover, subprojects portfolio in conjunction with the second Project component contributed to build
important human capital, through training of more than 1,000 researchers and extensionists across the
country. This resulted in a stronger market in technological services; while improving the capacity of
local extension units, generation of employment at farm level, and essentially improving the income
level of farmers who adopted the disseminated practices.

4.2.2    Institutional Development Component. The outputs of this component are rated satisfactory.
The Project emphasized the institutional strengthening component as it is fundamental to achieve the
objective of consolidating a new model to bring suitable and sustainable technological alternatives to the
small farmers through a competitive fund. Some of the outputs of this component are:

i) The methodological instruments and specific outputs of the M&E unit            which contributed to the



                                                      - 6 -

knowledge base and was a positive benefit of the Project:           a) This included the development of
methodologies for ex-ante evaluation, monitoring, ex-post evaluation, and impact of subprojects; b)
systematized reporting of experiences; c) formulation of scenarios of regional agricultural technology
and transfer; and d) methodology guide for the formulation of Municipal Agricultural Programs (PAM).
The Project implemented a National Directory of 250 registered Experts from which both the Regional
and National Panels were formed. This instrument has a significant outcome in fulfilling the identification
and availability of experts for different national requirements. The National Panel was a complementary
and interdisciplinary entity to support the organizational structure of the Project. It was composed of
seven members who were selected from the National Directory of Experts and were appointed by the
Executive Committee every year. The National Panel advised the Executive Committee on project
implementation, on the elaboration of the terms of reference for Calls of proposals, and the integration of
the national portfolio of subprojects to be presented to the Executive Committee. Some of the above
mentioned organizational elements are useful to be incorporated in future projects of similar nature and
objectives.

ii) Information System - SITA. One important alternative to promote the dissemination of the Project
outputs was the establishment of an Agricultural Technological Information System (SITA). The main
objectives of SITA were the dissemination of Project activities and outputs, and to guarantee access of
the beneficiaries to the technologies developed by the Project. SITA is considered a very important
instrument of information to the local providers of technical assistance services to small farmers
(UMATA), and can be accessed through its website: www.pronatta.gov.co.                 This portal built and
managed by MCU is a user-friendly site where the information about all co-financed subprojects is
available. It also houses the National Directory of Experts that has more than 250 experts classified by
profession, region and level of professional competence. This database, adopted by MADR, as the
technological information system for the sector, is regularly updated and maintained by a Project web
master.    It includes not only technologies developed by this Project but also all the innovations in
agricultural technology obtained by the different institutions that receive public funds, ensuring the
sustainability of the SITA.

iii) Articulation of strategy between universities and the productive sector. A subprogram of internships
(short-term training) was financed with the singular purpose of integrating academic studies, research,
and field practice. With this approach, the students at the pre-degree level and the universities came
closer to the fields of research and production. The indicators for the achievement of this strategy
include: a) 336 internships in different disciplines; and b) 52 universities nationwide that participated in
the scheme.

iv) Training strategy in preparation of subprojects for development. The Project generated various
financial instruments to support training and development of human resources at the regional and local
levels. Some of these are (see Annex 9 Table 9b):            a) Methodology Guide and Training for the
preparation of rural development (Training the trainers), where 10 courses were given to 243
participants; b) Specialization in Rural Development:       In a joint effort with the National University of
Bogotá and DFID Colombia, 35 professionals received degree training in this area. The participants in
addition were members of the Network of Technological Development and Institutional Strengthening (
Corporacion Red País Rural) that was created and supported by this Project; c) Training in information
technology: 15 workshops were conducted, 287 attendees trained, and 6 communities strengthened; d)
Training in popular communication: 30 trained; e) training of UMATA, with 7 workshops and 878
attendees; and f) Forum of Science and Agricultural technology: 6 workshops with 539 participants were
conducted to analyze and propose improvements for the SNCTA.

v) Technological Development and Institutional Strengthening Network (RED de Capacitacion y
Fortalecimiento Institucional or Corporación Red País Rural). The Project created and financed an
instrument (RED), to support the project activities within the defined objectives.         It was designed
specifically to support the operation of the Competitive Fund under the technology development
component. RED promoted the articulation and facilitated synergy of organizations, and formation of
alliances by bringing together both suppliers and demanders together at the Regional and sub regional
(nodal) levels. It also developed networks in selected thematic areas at the national level, i.e., organic
agriculture.   Most importantly it compensated for inequities in the institutionally weaker regions in
responding to the Calls for proposals. The RED is composed of 20 regional nodes and 4 thematic areas.



                                                     - 7 -

Each regional node built an agenda of development by identifying the demand of small producers and a
strategy to address them. RED through real and virtual means operates with a high level of connectivity
among the Nodes. Several agreements and strategic alliances such as the one with DFID Colombia and
ECOFONDO, strengthened the network. In 2004, the establishment of a corporate entity known as
"Corporacion Red Pais Rural", with more than 340 members, guaranteed the sustainability of RED. This
was a successful instrument as shown by the results of the response and approval of subprojects
proposed by the weaker regions (Annex 8 Table 8a). Furthermore, as the project progressed, RED
evolved into an important entity in the rural development space responding to the changing needs of the
regions.

vi)   Publications. The results of individual subprojects were published in the form of articles, bulletins,
papers, theses, etc. In addition, the Project published more than 17 documents on various themes of
project implementation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic impact evaluation of the Project by external consultants was realized in two stages: in the
first stage a random sample of those subprojects ending before January 31st. 2001was used and in the
second one an independent random sample for the rest of the subprojects ending December 31st. 2003
was used. The estimates for both samples were combined to obtain a single robust estimate of the IRR
for the entire project and by type of subproject and by region (Sain, 2004).

4.3.1. Internal rate of return estimates.          The impact evaluation averaged for the two cycles
demonstrated a high level of Internal Rate of Return (IRR) at 86.4% (Annex 3 Table 3a), which is much
higher than 15% (estimated cost rate of the project) and an assumed 12% social Opportunity Cost of
Capital (OCC). Although high, the estimated IRR is within the range shown in the literature for this type
of projects. When diferentiated by type of subproject results show that the IRR estimated for applied
research subprojects was higher than those subprojects for adaptive research and training, in that order.
In all cases, the lower limit of the estimated confidence interval for the IRR was 42% and the highest
limit was 111%, with a 95% confidence level. Standard deviation for the training subprojects was high,
about 129% as compared to other subprojects at about 114%.                To estimate the impact of policy
distortions (such as minimum wages defined by law, import restrictions, and unfavorable subsidies,
among others) on the return to investment in Agricultural Research, in the second impact evaluation
stage, the IRR was also estimated using social rather than market prices (IRRs). The results of such
exercise is shown in Annex 3 Table 3b). The average IRR/IRRs ratio of the training subprojects was 0.8
signifying that the overall policy distortions reduced its internal rate of return by 20% because of market
imperfections.     In other words, overall policies in Colombia are desincentives to investment in
agricultural research.

4.3.2. Employment generation and family income.
Among Project objectives, the creation and promotion of employment and increasing income of small
farmers was emphasized. The employment indicators (Annex 3 Table 3c) on the impact of technological
options generated by the subprojects based on cost of production with and without the subprojects by the
productive unit (hectare, enterprise or family) highlighted the following results: i) The average increase
in employment generated by the subprojects cofinanced by this Project was 80 man-days per year per
unit of production (that is about 4 months of man-days of labor per year); ii) Among the three types of
subprojects (applied research, adaptive research, and training), the highest employment generation was
achieved in the training subprojects and the lowest in the applied research subprojects;            iii) The
subprojects carried out in the Orinoquia region had the highest tendency to generate more employment;
and the lowest employment generation was in the subprojects of Occidente region; and iv) The highest
increase in employment was generated in the subprojects implemented by the universities and NGOs.
The increase in the income of small producers was a principle objective of the Project. An empirical
estimation of family income of the beneficiaries due to the Project (Annex 3 Table 3d) took into account
two sources: 1) the economic exploitation of the farm, and 2) the family labor generated in it.          The
family income was calculated by multiplying the net annual benefit (BNAA) by the number of productive
units, plus 50% of the value of man-days increased by the technological option. The average increase in



                                                     - 8 -

the family income was Pesos 4.259 million (US$1533); a figure that reflects 75% of the annual income of
a Colombian farm worker. The regions with the highest increment of the family income were Orinoquia
and Centro Oriente.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The impact evaluation carried out by the Project did not estimate the financial rate of return (FRR).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1 The evaluation of the institutional impact of the Project carried out by an external team (Sain,
2004) emphasized the following: The Project validated the model of competitive funding. It created a
milestone in the application of this policy instrument in the agricultural technology sub sector, being the
first competitive fund in the sector. The selection of subprojects using criteria based on quality, and
cofinancing with implementing agencies, helped focus the Project on demand driven problems, as well
as expanding the range of suppliers participating in publicly financed projects. This impact was further
strengthened by the transparency in the implementation of the fund.           Even though transparency is
considered as a minimum condition, it becomes extremely important when it is contrasted with
perceptions regarding other programs of the sector. As a result the Project earned legitimacy and the
confidence of the participants in the system. Moreover, it constituted an example for the possible use of
competitive fund model as a suitable instrument for the implementation of public policies. Competitive
funding is now a permanent policy instrument by MADR.

4.5.2    Through its decentralization strategy the Project was able to induce and promote alliances
between suppliers and demanders, public and private sectors, thereby achieving a new culture in the
technology development and transfer system. This strengthened the implementation of a government
policy aimed at involving more stakeholders, create social capital, gain legitimacy for public policy,
improve governance, and to scale up resources. Impact in this area is shown by: a) 27% of the
subprojects that were implemented by alliances and b) the institutionalization of the CORPORACION
RED PAIS RURAL.

4.5.3. Areas where institutional impacts were reduced, either because they related to long term
processes or because of a lack of effective implementation strategies were as follows: i) The integration
of universities into the system, which although has been broadly recognized, was far below its full
potential; ii) The lack in capacity of local and regional NGOs, to prepare quality projects curtailed their
participation in the Project. This was compounded by insufficiency of policies for human development
for these organizations; iii) The transfer of experiences and results horizontally among the subprojects
was low, and the dissemination of Project achievements was under utilized and did not reach as many
areas as desired; and iv) The selection of priorities and type of subprojects, is an area in which the
Project advanced in a significant way, but there were contradictions and overlapping resulting in
inefficiencies in implementation. This aspect of priority selection and subproject types needs better
supervision at both the national and regional levels.        Also, the selection of subprojects was often
dominated by short-term criteria, thereby compromising a strategic vision for innovation, which would
have greatly strengthened the Project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The following factors outside the control of government affected the Project implementation: a) Social
instability in the countryside limited the reach of the project in some areas and also limited the intensity
of supervision activities of the subprojects in those areas by the borrower and the Bank; b) The low
level of participation in GREMIOS, i.e., farmers organized around para fiscal funds such as the Coffee
Federation, which could have an extra source of funding; and c) The positive public support which the
project got from the beneficiaries at times when there were budget crises.




                                                     - 9 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The following factors subject to government control which affected the Project implementation were: i)
To mitigate the negative impact of the 1999 earthquake an emergency project, FOREC, was started to
assist the government to alleviate the disaster to the coffee region.           The Colombian Government
requested the World Bank to transfer $15 million of Project budget to FOREC. As a result, the total loan
amount was reduced to $36 million, which in turn reduced the resources available for the competitive
grant component; ii) The process of decentralization which was supported by the national government,
and which in turn promoted regional and local autonomy allowed for a better expression of demand for
technical services; iii) The possibility of contracting fiduciary entities for the management of resources
improved project implementation; and iv) Project implementation was sometimes slowed due to delays
in budget disbursement by the Ministry of Finance resulting in the lack of counterpart funding.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1 Subprojects, which were approved by the Executive Committee in 2000, not implemented in time
had to be adjusted technically and financially to meet the World Bank contract ending date of December
31st 2003. For this reason contracts for 94 subprojects were ended in December of 2003 thereby
reducing their overall impact.

5.3.2 There was relatively good stability of the managerial staff of MCU, which allowed for continuity.
The MCU staff was technically competent and committed, which strengthened its capacity of negotiation
with the Government and other implementing agencies. The composition of the Executive Committee
where different actors of SNCTA were involved, and chaired by the Vice Minister of Agriculture and
Rural Development permitted strong policy coordination among the different actors.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The Project budget (Project credit report produced by the MADR dated April 30, 2004) was US$ 85.85
million, which is 102.21% of the project budget as programmed in SAR. The higher budget level was
due to an increase in counterpart funding (implementing agencies and Colombia Government). The
MCU (including the Panel costs) was US$ 10.4 million signifying 62% of the original planned budget.
The SAR planned a budget of US$ 67.6 million (loan and counterparts) for the financing of subprojects.
However with the amendment of August 1999 that redirected some resources towards FOREC, and other
allocations in categories amounting to US$ 10.4 million of the loan that was cut leaving US$ 60.30
million counterpart and cofinancing of the subprojects, resulting in 105.9% of the proposed budget.

5.4.1 Financial Management.           Project financial management was well planned which guaranteed
resources for activities on technology development for periods longer than one-year. A financial officer
hired to manage resources of the competitive fund provided ample flexibility and efficiency in the
financial implementation. In addition the project hired IICA to provide both financial and technical
support and this support was considered to be satisfactory. The Project had several minor financial and
disbursement issues related to implementation and effectiveness of internal control, which were
corrected on request of the Bank in a timely manner.

5.4.2 Financial Audit. The Bank accepted the audit firm reports during Project implementation. The
compliance with internal control recommendations was verified during Bank supervision missions.

5.4.3 Disbursement Plan. The Project during the early years (1995-mid 1998) received most of its
resources from the Colombian Government, since at that time the country had sufficient resources and
did not employ those of the Loan resulting in an imbalance of the pari-passu. After 1998, with a change
in the financial situation the Project resources originated mainly from the Loan, and thereby maintaining
the projected pari-passu.




                                                    - 10 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

One of the main objectives of the Project was to validate a new instrument of public resource allocation
via competitive grants. Because of its success, the Government of Colombia has recognized its utility
and the current Metaplan of the MADR on science and technology for the sector includes the creation
and funding of a competitive fund. The MADR is in the process of looking for resources for the fund and
its design will draw on the experience of this project. Other instruments developed by the project are
also being institutionalized by the MADR such as: a) methodologies for monitoring and evaluation; b)
methodologies for impact evaluation; and c) SITA (information system) that will become the official
technological information system of the MADR. More importantly, the farmers are using the different
technologies developed through the implementation of this Project with assistance from UMATAs and
Provincial Centers (CPs).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The MADR is preparing a new project for World Bank financing, which includes a component in
Technological Development in which its resources would be assigned and implemented via Competitive
Grants. This will complement government resources. The latest instructions of the Minister of Agriculture
to the entities that carry out research and training in the sector are that their resources would in the future
be allocated on a competitive basis.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in the lending process was rated as satisfactory by helping the Government of
Colombia explore new ways of financing technology development and transfer.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank supervision was rated as satisfactory. The Bank also promoted the sharing of the new experiences
of projects in countries that are similar to Colombia.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory following the above observations.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The borrower's role in project preparation was satisfactory. As a result, the design of the project proved
to be appropriate for the objectives.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's performance in the implementation was satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. The Administrative Department of Public
Function of the Presidency of Colombia selected this Project as one of the excellent administrative units
of the Colombian Government (per Certificate dated December 05, 2000; signed by the President of



                                                     - 11 -

Colombia Andres Pastrana and the Director of Administration Mauricio Zuluaga Ruiz).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The borrower performance is rated satisfactory, based on the results of its different components, and its
operational effectiveness in Project implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

i.   The model of Competitive Grants is viable in the Colombian context. This is attested to by the
amount and quality of the subprojects presented for approval. However to make this model workable,
funds have to be built on the principles of transparency, inclusion, quality, and efficiency and these
principles have to be implemented from the beginning, and maintained throughout the life of the
subproject so as to maintain legitimacy with both the financing agencies and the beneficiaries.

ii. Credibility in the process of review, approval, and financing is the key to the success of a competitive
fund. Processes have to be public, transparent and consistent throughout the life of the subproject and
are the only way of ensuring credibility. In this case, credibility got a high rating from the stakeholders.

iii. Competitive funds are very useful instruments to both diversify the supply and demand of technology
Modern research systems depend on a wide variety of sources of technology and funding and this
experience in Colombia has shown that a competitive grant is an effective way to leverage idle resources
for the science and technology sectors. Subprojects once approved have to be guaranteed a continuous
flow of funds or else budget shortfalls will greatly reduce their impact.

iv. Competitive funding runs the risk of being short term in vision. Demand driven research that is
competitively funded runs the risk of only solving short term problems, and may not allow for a strategic
vision or program. This should be taken into the design of competitive funds and a certain amount of
resources should be aimed at the strategic objectives.

v.   The overall effect of a Competitive Fund may be reduced through dispersion. In the selection and
approval of subprojects care has to be taken that certain strategic areas are covered with a "critical
mass" of subprojects.      If not, the overall effect of the fund may be too dispersed to have a strategic
impact.

vi. Dissemination strategies have to be an integral part of a Competitive Fund.               Because of the
dispersion of subprojects care has to be taken that experiences, progress and results are communicated
both horizontally and vertically across the Project. If not, inefficiencies will occur in the overall program
and the impact will be reduced.

vii. Suitable environment for competitive funds:          a) require an intensive level of Monitoring and
Evaluation. In the design of competitive funds adequate resources have to be allocated to ensure
adequate monitoring and evaluation.          Continuous monitoring will result in a continuous learning
environment and will serve as an early warning system for problem projects.               Participation of the
beneficiaries and other stakeholders are essential to its success; b) competitive funding has to be
accompanied with a long-term strategy of sustainability for core funding of research institutions.        It is
widely held that research institutions need to have a culture of continuous learning and therefore need
constant upgrading of personnel, equipment and infrastructure. While this core funding is needed as a
commitment from the public purse, some of it may be awarded on a competitive basis. However, all
public funding should have a framework of accountability; c) competitive grants are suitable instruments
to reduce regional inequity. However, decentralization of implementation must always be accompanied
by a strong component of Institutional development to facilitate the strengthening of capacity in the less
competitive regions. This is the only way to ensure the quality of proposals; and d) competitive funding
is a good instrument to promote alliances among the different actors in the system.            This allows for
interaction among a wide variety of actors in the preparation, presentation and implementation of
projects, thereby improving interaction between different social groups and discipline leading to stronger
and more demand-driven proposals.

viii. Institutional change in the Agricultural Science and Technology Sector is a long-term process.



                                                     - 12 -

Processes that aim to change the culture of allocation and implementation of public resources in
technology development require time for the institutional structure to understand and utilize these
instruments; and adopt them as permanent components of technology development.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                             - 13 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

There were no other co-financiers of this project.



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


i)  In addition to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (the Project Implementing agency)
and the National Planning Department, which were involved in the preparation of this Project with
support from the World Bank, about 170 national, international and local organizations participated in
implementing the 635 subprojects of this Project.        These stakeholders included public and private
universities, joint public and private research organizations, GREMIOs, NGOs, Foundations, Private
enterprises, international organizations such as CIAT (Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical) and
IICA; public organizations such as ICA (Colombian Agricultural Research Institute) and INPA, and Local
and Departmental Governments.


ii) DFID was a key international partner contributing 0.75 million Sterling Pounds to a project managed
financially outside this Project but having the specific objective of providing assistance to the Project to
strengthen the organization of a network on technology development and institutional strengthening of
the rural space (Corporacion Red País Rural).



10. Additional Information

The decentralized method of operations in terms of calls for proposals and approved subprojects by
region, and training workshops and related activities conducted during the course of the Project are
summarized in the Annex 8, tables 8a and 8b.




                                                   - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                             Table 1a ­ The economic indicators of PRONATTA


                            Key Indicators                            Target at  Revised
                                                                      Appraisal  Target   Actual/Latest Estimation at
                                                                                                End of project
       Outcome/Impact

      Project Beneficiaries (% beneficiaries of the Project who are
      small farmers)                                                                              350,000
                                                                     350,000

      Number of direct beneficiaries of the program                                               150,000

      Number of indirect beneficiaries of the program                                             200,000

      % of small farmers who adopted environmentally sound                                            32%
         technology
      Average of economic rate of return                                                            86.4%
      Average of incremental net benefit per family                                               US$1,533
                                                                                             (Col$4.259,420.00)
      Output/Performance

      Technology Development Component

      # of Technology transfer subprojects                                                          635
      Total costs of competitive grant (US$mil) (cost of cofinancing) 38.70                       26.45

      Total counterpart in subprojects implemented (US $ million)     28.90                       33.60

      Total costs of the subprojects implemented (US $ million)       64.70                       60.05

      # of technical evaluations conducted (final evaluation of                                     632
      subprojects)
      Resources leveraged in cofinancing of research (%)                  45         60              60
      % Cofinancing from joint public and private corporations                       38              38

      % Cofinancing from NGOs                                                        16              16
      % Cofinancing from Joint Ventures                                              30              30
      % Cofinancing from Universities                                                 9                9
      % Cofinancing from other private entities                                       7                7
      % Cofinancing from public entities                                            4.9              4.9
      % Cofinancing from beneficiaries of training projects               16       27.0              40
      % of subproject with satisfactory outcome                                                      98
      % of subprojects with unsatisfactory outcome                                                     2
      % Subproject by Region ­ Amazonia                                             8.5              8.5
      % Subproject by Region ­ Centro Oriente                                      29.8             29.8
      % Subproject by Region ­ Costa Caribe                                        16.1             16.1
      % Subproject by Region ­ Occidente                                             29              29
      % Subproject by Region ­ Orinoquia                                           16.7             16.7
      % Subproject by subsector ­ agriculture                                      63.5             63.5
      % Subproject by subsector ­ animal husbandry                                 17.1             17.1
      % Subproject by subsector ­ multi-subsector                                   8.8              8.8
      % Subproject by subsector ­ forestry                                          3.6              3.6
      % Subproject by subsector ­ fish and aquaculture                              5.3              5.3
      % Subproject by subsector ­ natural resources                                 1.6              1.6
      % Cofinancing by subsector ­ agriculture                                     63.9             63.9
      % Cofinancing by subsector ­ animal husbandry                                15.9             15.9




                                                        - 15 -

 % Cofinancing by subsector ­ multi-subsector                                       8.6             8.6
 % Cofinancing by subsector ­ forestry                                              3.7             3.7
 % Cofinancing by subsector ­ fish and aquaculture                                  5.4             5.4
 % Cofinancing by subsector ­ natural resources                                     2.5             2.5
 % Subproject by entity ­ joint public and private corporations                      41              41
 % Subproject by entity ­ universities                                              9.0             9.0
 % Subproject by entity ­ alliances                                                  27              27
 % Subproject by entity ­ NGO                                                        16              16
 % Subproject by entity ­ other public                                              4.0             4.0
 % Subproject by entity ­ other private entities                                      7               7

 Institutional Development
 Formation of National Panel                                                   1     1                1
 Formation of Regional Panel                                                   5     5                5
 Coordination unit at national level                                           1     1                1
 Coordination unit at regional level                                           5     5                5
 Coordination unit at department level                                        32     0
 Establishment of M&E system                                                   1     1                1
 Establishment of technology information system (SITA)                         1     1                1
 No. of hits on PRONATTA web for information generated by                                525,945 (as of 03/31/2004)
  SITA by end of the project

 Input/implementation
Training.                                                                     24                     20
 By the end of the project more than 20 workshops on capacity
 building were conducted
Events in management, formulation and implementation of                      240                   378
program at all levels.
 Within 14 workshops, 378 participants were trained in capacity building
  and communication technologies
Events for training technical staff in 1,030 municipalities in the           700                   878
methodologies of TA (extension) to farmers.
 Six workshops were conducted by UMATAS resulting in 878
 people trained
University assistantship program:                                             80                     35
- No. of students post graduate supported.
 35 professionals of the region received specialized training in rural
  development
 - No. of students pre graduate                                                     336            336
 - No. of universities that participated                                                             53
Promotion: Excluding the promotional activities carried out
by each subproject, a minimum of 635 social events and 635
publications were prepared. An event registry of these activities
of the SITA was not maintained.
- No. of newspaper advertising                                               120                     36

- No. of radio advertising                                                 1,820                   300

- No. of public meetings                                                      24                   650
Includes 632 workshops; note: figure does not include an evaluation of the
last workshops of the project.
- No. of Bulletins                                                            16                     13




                                                            - 16 -

      Table 1b. Indicators of transparency and efficiency of financial management

Category               Indicators                         Unit of Measurement           Value
Financial               Operational costs                 % of operational budget         12.1
                        Counterpart cofinancing           Executed/ programmed          118.37
                        index
                        Index of executed credit                    %                    91.75
Transparency            Regional Panels                   Number of realized panels         30
                        National Panels                   Number of realized panels          6
                        Evaluation Panels                  No. Projects evaluated        2,948
Operational Efficiency  Projects Financed                        Number                    635
                        Projects Completed                          %                     99.5
                        Projects not completed                      %                      0.5
                        Approved budget                     Millions of pesos        94,289.43
                        Budget executed                     Millions of pesos        71,927.46
                        Budget transferred                  Millions of pesos        21,372.95
                        Budget unaccounted                  Millions of pesos           989.02
                        Strategic visits.                        Number                  1,270
                        On average two visits per
                        subproject; which was a
                        prerequisite for the second and
                        third disbursement




                                                 - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                   Table 2a. Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

                                       Components                                     Initial      Allocation % Allocated/
                                                                                     Estimatio                       estimated
                                                                                          n
           1. Research Investments                                                                     46.32               86.49%
              - Research Projects                                                       26.78
              - Technology Transfer                                                     26.78
                                                                                        53.56          46.32
           2. Management and Coordination - MADR                                                                        143.79%
              - Mgmt. & Admin (1) & Panel (2)                                             4.63
              - Program Promotion (1)                                                     1.11
              - Equipment for MCU and RU (1) (Category 2a)                                               0.27
            - Operational increments (staff of MCU and RUs and                                           7.98
                         operational costs) (1) (Category 5)
                                                                                          5.74           8.26
              - Panel (2)                                                                 0.00                             26.39%
              - Supervision (2)                                                           1.38
              - Strengthening Regions (2)                                                 6.77
              - Honoraria for the system of supervision, auditoria,                                      2.15
           Regional and National Panel (2) (Categories 4a and
           4b)
                                                                                           8.15            2.15
              - Training (3)                                                            10.24                              99.86%
              - Research Related Training (3)                                              0.9
              - Capacity building (3) (Category 3)                                                     13.98
              - Strengthening Regions (6)                                                 2.86
                                                                                        14.00          13.98
              - Information System (4)                                                    2.55                              5.33%
              - Equipment for the Information system (4)                                                 0.02
              (Category 2c)
              - Honoraria for Information Technology system (4)                                          0.12
              (Category 4c)
                                                                                          2.55           0.14
              - Construction of households (5) (Category 6,                                            15.01
           implemented by FOREC)
                                                                                                       15.01
           Total cost of Project                                                        84.00          85.85            102.21%

           (1) Includes equipment for MCU and RU, honoraria, travel and operational costs
           (2) Includes Panels, System of supervision (includes auditoria)
           (3) Capacity building within the research component
           (4) Information system (includes services on consultants and costs of information system
           (5) Includes the amount redirected to FOREC
           (6) The regional strengthening in 2 components: a) capacity building US $ 2,86 millions and b) the other activities valued
           at US $ 6.77 millions for a total of US $ 9.63 as per annex 2 of SAR




                                                              - 18 -

   Table 2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


                                                                            Procurement Method Appraisal Estimate

   Expenditure Category                                                   ICB         NCB          Other             Total
   1. Research Subprojects                                                                             53.60                 53.6
                                                                                                      (26.8)                (26.8)
   2. Vehicles and equipment                                                  1.80                      6.60                  8.4
                                                                             (1.8)                     (4.9)                 (6.7)
   Operational Costs
   - Materials and Supplies                                                                             1.70                 1.70
                                                                                                       (1.3)                 (1.3)
   - Salaries and travel expenses                                                                       6.30                 6.30
                                                                                                       (4.3)                 (4.3)
   Technical assistance and capacity building                                                          14.00                14.00

                                                                                                      (11.9)                (11.9)
                                                                              1.80                     82.20                84.00
                         Totals
                                                                             (1.8)                    (49.2)              (51.00)



                        Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)


                                                                          Procurement Method Actual/Latest Estimate

Expenditure Category                               CONCEPT                ICB         NCB        Other (1)           Total

1. Research subprojects                            Total                                46.32                               46.32

                                                   Loan                                 17.90                               17.90

2. Vehicles and supplies                           Total                                                0.29                 0.29

                                                   Loan                                                 0.20                 0.20
Operational Costs
- Materials and supplies



- Salaries and travel expenses                     Total                                               10.25                10.25

                                                   Loan                                                 5.35                 5.35

- Technical assistance and capacity building       Total                                               13.98                13.98

                                                   Loan                                                 8.34                 8.34


- Construction of Households                       Loan                                                15.01                15.01

                                                   Total
                     TOTALS                                                             46.32          39.53                85.85

                                                   Loan                                 17.90          28.89                46.79
(1) Includes the selection method of procurement: Selection of experts by qualification of the consultants; Selection of firms based
   on minimum cost.




                                                                   - 19 -

                                  Table 2c. Project Financing by Component and by Counterparts


                          Initial estimate Actual/Latest                                % Actual/ Latest    Allocation by
                                            Estimate                   % of Appraisal
                                                          Allocated                         estimate        Counterparts
                                                                                                             Co
        Component         Bank     Govern        Govern       Govern         Governme                               Govern
                                    ment  Bank    ment   Bank  ment    Bank      nt    Bank    Government financing
                                                                                                          agencies   ment



Research Investments
(Category 1)               26.80     26.80 18.50   26.80 17.90   28.42                                        27.06    1.36

                           26.80     26.80 18.50   26.80 17.90   28.42 66.81% 106.04%   96.78%     106.04%    27.06    1.36


Vehicles and Equipment        6.7     1.70          1.70

Equipment for MCU
(category 2a)                               0.25          0.19    0.08                                                 0.08

Equipment for Information
system (Category 2c)                        0.30          0.01    0.01                                                 0.01

                             6.70     1.70  0.55    1.70  0.20    0.09  2.95%    5.23%  35.92%       5.23%     0.00    0.09


Operational Cost

- Material & Supplies         1.3     0.40          0.40

- Salaries and Labor, and
Travel Expenses               4.3     2.00          2.00

- Salaries increments and
operational costs- MCU
and RU (Category 5)
                                0     0.00  4.49    0.00  3.60    4.39                                                 4.39
- Honoraria, travel,
Supervision (Category 4a
and 4b)                                     2.55          1.66    0.49                                                 0.49

                             5.60     2.40  7.04    2.40  5.26    4.87 94.01% 202.94%   74.76%     202.94%     0.00    4.87


Technical
Assistance/Training
(Category 3)               11.90      2.10  9.80    2.10  8.34    5.64                                         2.91    2.74



                             11.9     2.10  9.80    2.10  8.34    5.64 70.05% 268.79%   85.06%     268.79%     2.91    2.74


Information System
(Category 4c)                               0.10    0.00  0.08    0.04                                                 0.04

                                            0.10    0.00  0.08    0.04                  82.06%                 0.00    0.04
Construction of Buildings
(Category 6)                               15.01    0.00 15.01    0.00

                                           15.01    0.00 15.01    0.00                 100.00%                 0.00    0.00


Total cost of Project      51.00     33.00 51.00   33.00 46.79   39.06 91.75% 118.37%   91.75%     118.37%    29.96    9.10




                                                             - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                            Table 3a Distribution of IRR by type of subproject


  Type of Subproject          Average IRR                             Confidence interval 95 %
                              (%)            Std. deviation
                                                                   Upper level        Lower level
  Applied Research                 98              115                  143                 53
  Adaptive Research                86              114                  125                 50
  Capacity Development             79              129                  122                 42
  Average                         86.4            106.3               111.6                65.0



                                Table 3b. Social IRR by type of subproject

  Type of Subproject                 IRRS (%)               IRR (%)               IRR/IRRS Ratio
  Applied Research                       66                    97                       1.5
  Adaptive Research                     101                    83                       0.8
  Capacity Building                      84                    63                       0.8
  Average                                88                    79                       0.9


                    Table 3c. Employment generation per unit of production (man/days)

                                         Type of project
      Region                                                                            Average
                 Capacity Development    Adaptive Research     Applied Research
  Amazonia                 182                    0                    0                  109
  Centro Oriente           26                    160                   3                   95
  Costa Caribe             77                    13                    0                   50
  Occidente                28                    51                   15                   37
  Orinoquia                370                   62                   153                 127
  Average                  90                    83                   57                   80


        Table 3d. Average annual income increase per family, per region and type of subproject (pesos)

                                        Type of subproject
      Region                                                                             Average
                   Capacity Development    Adaptive Research Applied Research
  Amazonia               4,534,445             3,136,498            2,344,717           3,816,910
  Centro Oriente         1,216,470             9,010,275              753,483           5,311,435
  Costa Caribe           1,638,226               462,335                -----           1,134,273
  Occidente                936,679             2,876,633              761,229           1,940,781
  Orinoquia              3,034,014            12,842,733            3,179,256           8,531,716
  Average                2,005,165             6,706,492            1,741,460           4,259,420




                                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1990                      1    AGRICULTURAL                     S               S
                                             ECONOMIST.
              1991                      1    ECONOMIST.                       S               S
              1992                      3    ECONOMIST (2); FINANCIAL         S               S
                                             ANALYST (1).
              1993                      3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S               S
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/13/1993                4    TASK MANAGER [TM]                S               S
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (2).
              04/24/1994                7    TM (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (2); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                                             COUNSEL (1).

 Supervision
              11/17/1995                1    SENIOR                           S               S
                                             AGRICULTURIST, TASK
                                             MANAGER (TM) (1).
              02/05/1997                5    TM (1); MONITORING &             S               S
                                             EVALUATION (1);
                                             EXTENSION (1); RESEARCH
                                             (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1).
              03/19/1998                4    TM (1); SR. AGRICULTURIST        S               S
                                             (1); RESEARCH (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1).
              09/25/1998                4    TM (1); SR. AGRICULTURIST        S               S
                                             (1); AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1).
              06/04/1999                2    TM (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1).
              12/09/1999                3    TM (1); RESEARCH                 S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1).
              05/11/2000                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             RURAL DEV SPECIALIST (1).
              10/31/2000                3    TM (1); FINANCIAL                S               S
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST



                                              - 22 -

                                            (1).
               01/25/2002              3    TM (1); AGRICULTURAL              S    S
                                            ECONOMIST (1); PROC
                                            SPECIALIST (1).
               09/20/2002              1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1).             S    S
               02/21/2003              3    TM (1); FINANCIAL .SPEC (1);      S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1).
               07/25/2003              2    TM (1); OPERATIONS                S    S
                                            ANALYST (1).


 ICR
               12/19/2003             5     TM (1); AGRICULTURAL              S    S
                                            ECONOMIST (2);
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); PROJECT ASSISTANT
                                            (1).



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           106.8                         183.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 54.5                         174.0
  Supervision                           99.5                         422.0
  ICR                                     9.5                          52.0
  Total                                270.3                         831.0




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Competitivity
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Andres Felipe Arias. 2004. Hacia una agricultura competitiva. En La Revista semana March 14 2004.
(como una referencias sobre sostenibilidad de instrumentos del PRONATTA).

Gill, Gerard J. and Carey, Diana. 1999. Competitive agricultural technology funds in developing countries.
ODI Research Study. Overseas Development Institute, London, UK. Pp. 76.

PRONATTA. 1995. Operational Manual of PRONATTA. Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.

PRONATTA. 1997. Guía Metodológica para la formulación del Programa Agropecuario Municipal - PAM.
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Colombia.

PRONATTA. 1999. Red de Capacitación y Fortalecimiento Institucional. Alianza para tejer el Desarrollo
Científico y Tecnológico Agropecuario. Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Colombia.

PRONATTA. 2000. Curso de Capacitación para la formulación de Proyectos de Capacitación
Tecnológica. Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.

PRONATTA. 2001. Téngalo presente para construir el proyecto de Capacitación Tecnológica. Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development.

Rafael Echeverri Perico. 2002. Evaluación de impactos instucionales del PRONATTA.                Informe
Consultaría Externa.

Jaime Forero. 2003. Evaluación de impactos económicos de los subproyectos PRONATTA. (Primer
ciclo). Informe Consultaría Externa.

Gustavo Saín. 2004. Evaluación de impactos económicos de los subproyectos PRONATTA. (Segundo
ciclo; integración con el primer ciclo). Informe Consultaría Externa, Marzo 2004.

World Bank. 1995. Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). Report No. 12236-CD, March 24.

World Bank: Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports.

World Bank 2003. Aide-memoire, Implementation Completion Report (ICR) visit Report, December
2003.




                                                  - 26 -

Annex 8. Subproject and Training Workshop


                               Table 8a ­ Output of PRONATTA led Calls for proposals

Year of Calls       Region              Total no. of    Subprojects No. of                 Portfolio of  Portfolio
for Proposals                           Subprojects not selected         subprojects       subprojects   recommended by the
and number                              demanded        for              preselected       recommended National Panel and
                                                        operational      for evaluation by Regional      contracted
                                                        factors          by Regional       Panels
                                                                         Panels

1995 aª             Amazonia            -
(405)               Costa Caribe         65                               40                11
                    Centro Oriente 126                                    73                13
                    Occidente           171                               60                20
                    Orinoquia            43                                8                 2
Total:                                  405             224              181                46           75 Subprojects
1995 b              Amazonia             13                                                 4            Total Portfolio
(362)               Costa Caribe         71                                                 10           (1995a+ 1995b; 144
                    Centro Oriente 127                                                      18           subprojects): Pesos
                    Occidente            89                                                 16           6,221.5 millions
                    Orinoquia            55                                                  8
                    Projects              7
                    received by
                    MCU
Total                                   362              32              330                56           69 Subprojects
1996                Amazonia              8               3                5                 0           Total portfolio:
(507)               Costa Caribe        111              24               87                14           Pesos 3,623.5 millions
                    Centro Oriente 177                   51              126                21
                    Occidente           178              52              126                30
                    Orinoquia            33                3              30                 3
Total                                   507             133              374                68           68 Subprojects
1997                Amazonia             58                0              58                21           Total portfolio: Pesos
                    Costa Caribe        134              33              101                17           8,496.6 millions
                    Centro Oriente 210                   25              185                38
                    Occidente           375              56              319                32
                    Orinoquia           113                0             113                39
Total                                   890             114              776               147           134 Subprojects
1998                Amazonia             64                1              63                15           Total portfolio: Pesos
                    Costa Caribe        193              26              169                17           10,860.9 millions
                    Centro Oriente 301                   53              251                48
                    Occidente           252              60              192                30
                    Orinoquia            91                6              85                20
Total                                   901             141              760               130           125 Subprojects
2000                Amazonia             55                9              46                18           Total portfolio: Pesos
                    Costa Caribe        132              32              100                32           19,362.3 millions
                    Centro Oriente 226                   65              161                57
                    Occidente           212              70              142                50
                    Orinoquia            89              11               78                31
Total                                   714             187              527               188
                                                                                                         164 Subprojects
Grand Total                                                                                              Total portfolio: Pesos
                                                                                                         48,564.96 millions for
                                                                                                         635 Subprojects
Note: Records of calls for proposals SIG-UC. Database Artificial judiciary XL. UC. 2004
     Total portfolio investments by the Project and excluding cofinancing by the implementing agencies.




                                                                   - 27 -

            Table 8b ­ Courses and workshops conducted on strategic capacity development.


No. of capacity building activities   No. of workshops                           No. of trainees
Capacity building and formulation of  10 Courses in year 2000                    243
capacity building projects
Specialization on Rural development ­ Every 2 months in a year                   35
National University of Colombia
Capacity building on information      Phase I: 1 workshop National 2-7 Oct/2000. National: 16 trainees;
technologies and communication.       I Replication Regional 6 Workshops, Oct 25 87 trainees
                                      al 8 Nov/2000.                             184 trainees
                                      II Replication Regional Phase I: 8         91 trainees
                                      Workshops. Feb 21 - Mar 14/2001


Capacity building in methodologies of Phase II Capacity building: Sep 30-
use of new information technologies   Oct/2001.
Capacity building on popular          1 National Workshop 2002                   30 trainees of RED
communication
Capacity building Law 607/00 ­        14 Workshops                               682 persons
Provincial Centers on Agro enterprises
Fora on social capital                11 Workshops                               293
Fora of Science and technology        1 National in Medellín and 5 Regional      539
Fora of UMATAS                        5 Regional and 2 Nationals                 638 UMATA & 240 public
                                                                                 and private representatives
Note: Archives UC-PRONATTA




                                                     - 28 -

Annex 9. Borrower ICR (Informe del Prestatario)

1. Evaluación del objetivo del desarrollo, diseño y de la calidad del inicio

1.1. Objetivo original: El objetivo de desarrollo definido en el Staff Apraissal Report fue introducir un
cambio en la cultura de investigación en Colombia acorde con las políticas del gobierno y con el
principio de descentralización del desarrollo tecnológico, modernización y privatización de la agricultura
colombiana con énfasis en la transferencia de tecnología para los pequeños productores. La
investigación financiada bajo el proyecto debe apoyar la reducción de la pobreza rural, incrementar el
empleo rural y mejorar la competitividad de los productores agropecuarios colombianos.

Los objetivos específicos fueron: a) mejorar la calidad y eficiencia de la investigación y transferencia de
tecnología agropecuaria mediante la introducción del concepto de atención de demandas, sistema de
selección competitiva para el cofinanciamiento de subproyectos con entidades públicas y privadas del
sector; b) fortalecer la capacidad institucional del sector para el desarrollo y evaluación de paquetes
tecnológicos para los pequeños productores; c) revitalizar la capacidad ociosa, tanto física como
humana, existentes en el Sistema Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria en Colombia; d) Promover la
participación del sector privado en la investigación y transferencia de tecnología agropecuaria y; e)
apoyar la descentralización mediante el fortalecimiento de la participación regional, la identificación de
prioridades y los servicios municipales de extensión.

1.2. Objetivos revisados: Los objetivos iniciales no fueron modificados.

1.3. Componentes originales
1.3.1 El proyectos tuvo dos componentes: 1) Desarrollo tecnológico y adopción y 2) Desarrollo
institucional. El componente de desarrollo tecnológico y adopción incluye la inversión desde la demanda
para dos subcomponentes:        investigación    estratégica y aplicada;     investigación adaptativa. El
Componente de Desarrollo Institucional incluye la inversión en 5 subcomponentes: establecimiento de
la Unidad Coordinadora (MCU) en el Ministerio de Agricultura y Desarrollo Rural (MADR);              Panel
Nacional como soporte a la MCU en la implementación del proyecto; Paneles regionales para apoyar la
selección de subproyectos; entrenamiento y capacitación en formulación de proyectos y en tecnologías
disponibles;   establecimiento de un programa de asistencia universitaria y        establecimiento de un
sistema de información de tecnologías agropecuarias. El costo total del proyecto fue US$84 millones.

1.3.2. El Componente de Desarrollo tecnológico fue diseñado para atender demandas a través de la
inversión en investigación estratégica, aplicada y adaptativa , incluyendo el ajuste, validación y difusión
promoción de opciones tecnológicas. La selección de subproyectos se fundamenta en la aplicación de
criterios de priorización para apoyar la investigación y entrenamiento en tecnologías agropecuarias.
Todos los subproyectos incluyen aspectos socioeconómicos y de sosetnibilidad ambiental.

Subcomponente 1.1. Investigación estratégica y aplicada. Costo US$26.78 milliones. Involucra
subproyectos para atender prioridades nacionales a mediano plazo sobre la generación de opciones
tecnológicas para posteriores actividades de adaptación. Los recursos para la investigación aplicada
soporta subproyectos que promueven tecnologías con potencial inmediato de uso por parte de los
pequeños productores.

Subcomponente 1.2. Investigación adaptativa. Costo US$26.78 millones. Sunproyectos de
transferencia de tecnología que incluyen ensayos, días de campo y capacitación. Las tecnologías
generadas en los centros de investigación deben ser evaluadas, ajustadas y probadas bajo condiciones
representativas en términos ecológicos antes de ser transferidas a los extensionistas.

1.3.3. El Componente de desarrollo institucional incluye el establecimiento de una pequeña unidad
coordinadora (MCU) en el MADR. Para la coordinación y promoción del proyecto con las diferentes
organizaciones participantes , incluyendo las Secretarías de Agricultura Departamentales, y el monitoreo



                                                  - 29 -

y evaluación de las actividades. Esta unidad también realizará el filtro por calidad técnica de los
subproyectos para su contratación. La MCU se apoya en el Panel Nacional en estas actividades. Los
subproyectos aprobados son presentados al Comité Directivo para su no objeción. Los Paneles
Regionales se encargan de la evaluación de los subproyectos en el nivel regional. El componente
involucra las siguientes actividades: a) establecimiento de Unidades coordinadoras regionales (UCR)
para la coordinación y promoción del proyecto a nivel regional; b) asistencia técnica para apoyar la
implementación del sistema de supervisión, la evaluación de medio término y la evaluación de impactos
del proyecto; c) programa de entrenamiento en tecnologías y en formulación de proyectos para
investigadores, técnicos de campo y otros profesionales del nivel nacional, regional y municipal, y en
metodologías de asistencia técnica a productores; d) establecimiento de un programa de asistencia a
universidades, para acercar los estudios académicos con el trabajo práctico de campo; y e)
establecimiento de un sistema de información tecnológica agropecuaria en función de los requerimientos
departamentales y regionales.

Subcomponente 2.1. Establecimiento de la Unidad Coordinadora (MCU) en el MADR y paneles.
                         Costo US$4,43 millones

Subcomponente 2.2. Programa de promoción. Costo US$1.11 millones

Subcomponente 2.3. Supervisión. Costo US$1.38 millones

Subcomponente 2.4. Fortalecimiento de las regiones. Costo US$9.63 millones

Subcomponente 2.5. Entrenamiento y capacitación en tecnologías y formulación de subproyectos.
                         Costo US$10.24 millones

Subcomponente 2.6. Programa de asistencia a universidades. US$0.9 millones

Subcomponente 2.7. Sistema de información de tecnologías agropecuarias. Costo US$2.55 millones

1.4. Componentes revisados

1.4.1. En términos generales, los componentes se mantuvieron sin modificación durante la
implementación del proyecto, con las excepciones mencionada abajo. No obstante, estas revisiones no
implicaron la reestructuración de los componentes:
a) Por solicitud del Gobierno Nacional al Banco Mundial (agosto 4, 2003), US$15 millones del crédito
inicial se redireccionaron para atender la reconstrucción de viviendas por causa del terremoto en el eje
cafetero (enero 1999), a través del Fondo para la Reconstrucción del Eje Cafetero (FOREC) de la
Presidencia de la República. Estos recursos se redireccionaron del subcomponente de desarrollo y
adaptación de tecnologías (1.1).
b) Cancelación de US$4.2079 millones del subcomponente de desaerrollo y adaptación de tecnologías
(1.1), de los cuales US$3.501 millones fueron solicitados (septiembre 4, 2003) y aprobados debido a la
imposibilidad del Gobierno Nacional para aportar la contrapartida para la operación del fondo
competitivo; US$0.5028 millones procedentes de diferentes categorías del crédito debido a la
imposibilidad de uso completo en diferentes actividades acordadas; US$0.0788 millones por reembolso
de recursos no utilizados; y US$0.125 millones por devolución de dobles solicitudes Ver reporte de
crédito (3871-CO) de abril 30, 2004.
c) Bajo el componente de desarrollo institucional, el programa de asistencia a universidades fue
revisado. Originalmente, el programa fue diseñado para: a) asistir el enlace entre los estudios
académicos con el trabajo de investigación en campo y b) apoyar la vinculación de estudiantes de
facultades de agronomía acreditadas de Colombia para completar sus trabajo de grado para obtener
títulos de M.A. Sin embargo, durante la implementación del proyecto se revisó este programa,
definiéndolo para apoyar la realización de pasantías por periodos cortos de tiempo para la capacitación
y entrenamiento de estudiantes de pregrado. Bajo este programa, se atendieron 336 estudiantes.




                                                  - 30 -

1.5. Calidad al inicio

En términos generales, la calidad al inicio en la implementación del proyecto es satisfactoria en
consideración de los siguientes criterios: i) consistencia del proyecto con las prioridades del Banco
Mundial en su Estrategia de Asistencia a Países (CAS), que involucra el desarrollo rural, disminución de
pobreza y fortalecimiento institucional en Colombia.; ii) consistencia de los objetivos del proyecto con la
estrategia del Gobierno de fortalecer y reformar el sistema nacional de transferencia de tecnología
agropecuaria, para proveer de servicios a los pequeños productores, incrementar la productividad
agropecuaria y fomentar la participación del sector privado en la investigación agropecuaria; iii) el
proyecto también apoyó la política gubernamental de descentralización del sistema de investigación y
transferencia de tecnología agropecuaria, con especial atención de los problemas de los pequeños
productores, jalonando recursos adicionales de los diferentes participantes a través de la colaboración
interinstitucional, fortalecimiento de las organizaciones del sector privado, ONG's e instituciones
académicas.; iv) la preparación del proyecto se manejó adecuadamente, tanto por el Banco Mundial
como por el prestatario. Aunque el Grupo de Alta Calidad del Banco (QAG) no ha adelantado la revisión
del proyecto, los resultados del proceso de evaluación de impactos adelantado por parte del proyecto,
muestra resultados positivos; v) la implementación del proyecto contribuyó con la descentralización y
generación de mercados de servicios. La capacidad de las organizaciones locales y regionales
respondieron positivamente a la propuesta de una nueva cultura de investigación y transferencia de
tecnología promovida por el proyecto, y; vi) en consideración de la opinión de diferentes actores
involucrados con el proyecto, el PRONATTA fomentó la activa cooperación entre organizaciones
mejorando la eficiencia en su implementación.

2. Logro de objetivos y productos

2.1. Resultados / Logros del objetivo del PRONATTA

El proyecto fue exitoso, logrando el cumplimiento de los objetivos establecidos y resultados esperados.
Por tal razón, puede calificarse como satisfactorio.

2.1.1. El PRONATTA fue consistente con el propósito del Gobierno Nacional de reformar y
descentralizar el sistema de investigación y transferencia de tecnología. El PRONATTA ha desarrollado
un modelo nuevo, descentralizado y eficiente de asignación y ejecución de recursos públicos para la
generación y transferencia de tecnologías a través de un fondo competitivo. El modelo ha tenido una
buena aceptación dentro del Sistema Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología Agropecuaria de Colombia si se
considera que: (i) la oferta tecnológica agropecuaria para los productores de bajos ingresos ha
aumentado considerablemente; (ii) las entidades y organizaciones dedicadas a generar y transferir
tecnología han modificado su forma de gestionar el desarrollo tecnológico y han establecido vínculos
con otras entidades y actores del Sistema, las Uniones Temporales y las alianzas ejecutaron mas del 27
% de los subproyectos cofinanciados; (iii) el conocimiento tecnológico generado responde cada vez más
a demandas construidas a nivel regional y local; (iv) el proceso de planificación local y regional se
fortaleció a través de la "Red", como resultado directo de la estrategia de fortalecimiento institucional;
(v) por cada peso que el PRONATTA invirtió en investigación y capacitación tecnológica, los ejecutores
de proyectos, públicos y privados, han invertido $0,86. Esta contrapartida incluye la contribución de
recursos de la entidades ejecutoras de subproyectos, así como recursos públicos y privados; y (vi) la
participación del sector privado en el fondo competitivo se incrementó considerablemente (ver
indicadores del anexo 1). La implementación del proyecto ha resultado en una nueva cultura
institucional, en mecanismos de asignación y ejecución de recursos públicos a través del fomento de
fondos competitivos, la descentralización, la sinergia entre instituciones y la formulación de proyectos en
función de la demanda.

2.1.2. Las tecnologías difundidas consideraron elementos sociales. De acuerdo con la apreciación de los
paneles de evaluación final, y a partir del criterio de equidad, el 68.4 %, de los subproyectos muestran
alto nivel de adaptación al tejido social y aceptación por los productores (ver anexo 2). Así mismo, que
el 56.8% de los subproyects relacionados con recursos genéticos y recursos naturales, muestran
calificación alta en los indicadores de sostenibilidad ambiental.



                                                    - 31 -

2.1.3. Los ingresos familiares promedio de los productores aumentaron $4.26 millones (US$1,533) al
año como resultado de la adopción de las opciones tecnológicas desarrolladas por los proyectos
cofinanciados. Este incremento es el resultados del aumento en productividad y/o por aumento del nivel
de empleo familiar.

2.1.4. La evaluación de impactos muestra altos niveles de adopción de las tecnologías difundidas (tasa
de adopción del 32%). Esto se debe no solo por el hecho que las tecnologías son apropiadas a las
circunstancias y problemas de los pequeños agricultores, sino también por el nivel de capacitación,
articulación y dedicación de los extensionistas.

2.1.5. El proyecto se manejó con altos mecanismos de transparencia, lo que se refleja en el alto nivel de
credibilidad y confianza a nivel regional y local y en la eficiencia en el manejo de los recursos. Este
manejo se refleja en el alto nivel de inversión (87.9 %) con bajos costos operativos (12.1 %) en la
ejecución del proyecto (ver anexo 6).

2.2. Resultados por componentes

2.2.1. Componente de desarrollo y adaptación tecnológica. Los resultados logrados en este
componente pueden calificarse como altamente satisfactorios en consideración de:

Validación de un modelo de operación para fondos competitivos. PRONATTA tuvo una calificación
altamente satisfactoria por dejar establecido un modelo de gestión de fondos competitivos caracterizado
por la entrega eficiente de recursos públicos, donde el 100% de los recursos presupuestados fueron
entregados y manejados a través de principios claros de operación a través de las 6 convocatorias
adelantadas. La operación del fondo competitivo trajo como consecuencia el aprovechamiento de la
capacidad física y humana ociosa disponible en diferentes instituciones del sistema, creando además
importantes sinergias institucionales. Uno de los indicadores que muestran las sinergias entre entidades
es que más del 27% de los subproyectos fueron ejecutados a través de uniones, asociaciones o alianzas
entre actores.

PRONATTA operó a través de un modelo descentralizado. Los paneles regionales muestra que en total
se adelantó la evaluación ex - ante de 2,948, las cuales fueron priorizadas acordes con los términos de
referencia de la 6 convocatorias. La experiencia del PRONATTA en el tema de descentralización debe
ser tenida en cuenta en la formulación de políticas para el sector.

Regionalización. Los subproyectos ejecutados se distribuyeron de una manera amplia entre las
diferentes regiones del país (Orinoquia, Amazonia, Costa Caribe, Centro Oriente y Occidente). (ver
anexos 1 y 4).

El modelo de asignación y ejecución de recursos públicos ha sido ampliamente aceptado en el Sistema
Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología Agropecuaria. El modelo ha sido adoptado por el MADR a través del
Metaplan y en la Dirección de Desarrollo Tecnológico y Protección Sanitaria del MADR. Adicionalmente,
el MADR ha iniciado un proceso institucional para incorporar el modelo implementado por el
PRONATTA para la asignación de recursos públicos en ciencia y tecnología agropecuaria.

La cultura institucional fomentada por el PRONATTA ha modificado sustancialmente el comportamiento
de las instituciones del sector encargadas de la generación y transferencia. Esta nueva cultura se orienta
hacia la atención de demandas de los usuarios, valorando la importancia de la sinergia entre
instituciones de diferente naturaleza para tener una mejor eficiencia en el manejo de los recursos
públicos. Este proceso de construcción social influye positivamente el cambio un cultura sobre el
desarrollo tecnológico, en la definición de prioridades regionales, en el fortalecimiento de la capacidad
institucional de las regiones y el recurso humano regional.

Portafolio de subproyectos. PRONATTA consolidó un amplio portafolio compuesto por 635 subproyectos
de desarrollo tecnológico (investigación y capacitación), caracterizado por tener un alto nivel de



                                                   - 32 -

efectividad donde el 98% de los subproyectos cumplieron sus objetivos.

Portafolio de opciones tecnológicas. A través del portafolio de subproyectos se generaron y difundieron
mas de 600 opciones tecnológicas, las cuales contienen cerca de 3600 componentes tecnológicos (en
promedio se tiene 5.7 componentes por opción), que alcanzaron más de 150,000 beneficiarios directos
(pequeños agricultores). El portafolio se ajusta a las condiciones de los productores tal como lo
demuestran las tasas de adopción y rentabilidad de los subproyectos (ver anexo 1).
Los subproyectos del portafolio contribuyeron a la construcción de un importante capital humano,
mediante la capacitación de más de 1000 profesionales (investigadores, transferidores y extensionistas)
en todo el país, generaron un incremento sustancial en la operación de mercados de servicios
tecnológicos, mejoraron las capacidades de las unidades locales de extensión, mejoraron el empleo al
nivel de la finca y esencialmente mejoraron los niveles de ingresos de los agricultores que adoptaron las
practicas difundidas.

Validación de un modelo de operación. Se validó el modelo de gestión como fondo competitivo, a través
del cual se respondió a la demanda mediante 6 convocatorias públicas de libre concurrencia, lográndose
la cofinanciación de 635 subproyectos con una inversión total de $90.600.580.073, incluyendo la
contrapartida de las entidades ejecutoras. Los subproyectos cofinanciados consideran los diversos
contextos regionales y necesidades tecnológicas de la población objeto del PRONATTA. El manejo
transparente de los recursos, unas reglas claras de juego, un esquema descentralizado y una activa
participación de los diversos actores lograron crear credibilidad y confianza en el modelo.

2.2.2. Componente de desarrollo institucional. Los resultados pueden calificarse como satisfactorios.
PRONATTA puso un énfasis especial en el fortalecimiento institucional bajo la premisa de que este
componente es esencial para lograr el objetivo de consolidar un nuevo modelo para llevar alternativas
tecnológicas apropiadas de manera sostenible a los pequeños agricultores a través de un fondo
competitivo. Entre los principales logros en este componente se pueden mencionar:

Unidad Coordinadora. Se consolidó una unidad coordinadora (MCU) responsable de la supervisión y
coordinación técnica, operativa y financiera del proyecto, y cinco unidades coordinadoras regionales
(UCR's) encargadas de la implementación del proyecto en el nivel regional.

Unidad de Seguimiento y Evaluación. Un importante logro del PRONATTA dirigido a mantener un alto
nivel de eficacia y eficiencia en la ejecución de los subproyectos fue el establecimiento una Unidad de
Seguimiento y Evaluación como apoyo a los componentes de desarrollo tecnológico y desarrollo
institucional. Entre sus principales se mencionan: (i) desarrollo de una estrategia y metodologías para la
evaluación exante, durante y expost, así como la evaluación de impactos; (ii) control de la calidad de los
subproyectos presentados en las convocatorias en términos de rigor técnico, interdisciplinariedad y
transparencia.

Paneles Regionales. Se conformó un panel por cada región encargados de la evaluación exante y
expost, así como la priorización de los subproyectos, con autonomía descentralizada. La composición de
la paneles se realizó bajo el principio de interdisciplinariedad con la participación de expertos temáticos
con experiencia y conocimiento de una o más de las cinco regiones del país, para cumplir con la
transparencia y el rigor técnico. PRONATTA implementó en Directorio Nacional de Expertos conformado
por un número aproximado de 250 expertos. A partir de este directorio se conformaron los paneles
regionales. Este instrumento puede ser utilizado para identificar expertos para diferentes necesidades
del país.

Panel Nacional. Instancia interdisciplinaria de apoyo y complementación dentro de la estructura
organizativa del proyecto. Integrado por 7 miembros seleccionados del Directorio Nacional de Expertos y
designados por el Comité Directivo para periodos de un año. El panel nacional asesoró al Comité
Directivo acerca de los ajustes en la implementación del proyecto, en la elaboración de los términos de
referencia de las convocatorias y en la conformación del portafolio nacional de subproyectos
financiables para ser presentado al Comité Directivo.




                                                   - 33 -

Sistema de Información - SITA. Una alternativa importante creada para fomentar la estrategia de
divulgación y socialización de los resultados del proyecto fue la creación y consolidación del Sistema de
Información Tecnológica Agropecuaria (SITA). El objetivo del sistema fue la promoción del proyecto, la
socialización de sus actividades y resultados y garantizar el acceso de los demandantes de tecnologías
desarrolladas por el PRONATA. El SITA es considerado un instrumento importante de información para
los proveedores de servicios de asistencia técnica para los pequeños productores (UMATA), entre otros.
El modelo del SITA incluye también el portal del PRONATTA en el internet, que puede ser accedido a
través del website www.pronatta.gov.co. Este portal fue construido y administrado por la MCU y es un
excelente y amigable portal en donde se puede obtener la información acerca de los subproyectos
cofinanciados; además, por servir como mecanismo de diseminación de la información, contribuye a la
transparencia del proyecto. El portal incluye el Directorio Nacional de Expertos con más de 250 expertos
clasificados por disciplina, región nivel de competencia profesional.     También contiene información
tecnológica del sector de entidades que reciben recursos público, que contribuye a la sostenibilidad del
sistema.

Estrategia de articulación entre academia y sector productivo. A través de un subprograma de pasantías
se cumplió con el propósito de integrar los estudios académicos, la investigación y el trabajo práctico de
campo. De esta manera, estudiantes de pregrado y universidades lograron acercarse a la investigación y
al sector productivo. Los indicadores sobre resultados de este subprograma incluyen: i) 336 estudiantes
de diferentes disciplinas y ii) 52 universidades de todo el país.

Estrategia de capacitación en formulación de proyectos de desarrollo. El PRONATTA generó diferentes
instrumentos para adelantar la capacitación y el desarrollo del recurso humano a nivel regional y local.
Algunos de estos instrumentos son (ver anexo 7.2):          i) Guía metodológica y capacitación para la
formulación de proyectos de desarrollo rural, con la realización de 10 cursos con la participación de 243
personas; ii) Especialización en Desarrollo Rural. A través de un convenio con la Universidad Nacional
de Bogotá el DFID Colombia, 35 personas recibieron capacitación en este tema. Los participantes eran
miembros de la Red de Desarrollo Tecnológico y Fortalecimiento Institucional, creada y financiada por el
PRONATTA; iii) capacitación en tecnologías de la información: 15 talleres, 287 personas capacitadas y
6 comunidades virtuales montadas; iv) capacitación en comunicación popular: 30 personas capacitadas;
v) capacitación de UMATA con 7 talleres con la asistencia de 878 personas, y vi) Foros de Ciencia y
Tecnología Agropecuaria. Se realizaron 6 talleres con un total de 539 personas, en donde se analizó y
se generaron alternativas para optimizar el SNCTA.

Red de Capacitación y Fortalecimiento Institucional. PRONATTA creó y financió la Red como soporte a
las actividades del proyecto definidas en sus objetivos. De manera específica, se creó como apoyo a la
operación del fondo competitivo en el componente de desarrollo tecnológico. La Red promovió la
articulación, las sinergias de organizaciones y la conformación de alianzas para compensar las
inequidades debidas a las debilidades institucionales entre regiones, lo que se reflejaba en la
convocatorias. Este instrumento probó ser exitoso, lo que se demuestra por los resultados de
presentación y aprobación de subproyectos de las regiones débiles. Posteriormente, a medida que el
proyecto avanzó en su implementación, la Red involucró importantes entidades de desarrollo rural
respondiendo a los cambios de necesidades y contextos regionales.
La Red esta conformada por 20 nodos regionales y 4 redes temáticas. Cada nodo regional ha construido
una agenda de desarrollo para la identificación de las demandas de los pequeños agricultores y las
estrategias de atención a las mismas. Mediante diferentes medios reales y virtuales, la Red opera con
un alto nivel de conectividad entre nodos. Diferentes convenios y alianzas, como las mencionadas con
DFID Colombia y ECOFONDO, han ayudado al fortalecimiento de la Red. En el año 2004, se ha
garantizado la sostenibilidad de la Red a través de la creación de una entidad autónoma conocida como
"Corporación RED PAIS RURAL", que cuenta con más de 340 miembros.

Desarrollo metodológico. PRONATTA, a través de la Unidad de Seguimiento y Evaluación, desarrolló,
utilizó y validó un conjunto de metodologías dirigidas al seguimiento, control y evaluación de los
subproyectos y sus impactos económicos, institucionales, organizacionales y ambientales. La
metodología de evaluación de impactos se considera como una experiencia pionera en la ejecución de
este tipo de proyectos. Las metodologías desarrolladas son de aplicación universal. Por esta razón, es



                                                    - 34 -

una importante contribución del PRONATTA al conocimiento y se puede considerar como una
externalidad    positiva  del  proyecto.    Las  metodologías    se   caracterizan  por    su   eficiencia,
interdisciplinariedad, descentralización, transparencia y rigor técnico. Otros desarrollos metodológicos
del PRONATTA son: i) Guía metodológica para análisis de redes y percepciones; ii) sistematización de
experiencias; formulación de escenarios de desarrollo regional; iii) guía metodológica para la
formulación de Programas Agropecuarios Municipales (PAM).

Publicaciones. Adicional a las publicaciones de resultados de los subproyectos (artículos, boletines, tesis
entre otros), PRONATTA ha adelantado la publicación de más de 17 documentos sobre diferentes temas
(ver anexo 7.3).
Unidad Administrativa, Financiera y Jurídica (FAJA). La Unidad de manejo administrativo, financiero y
jurídico del proyecto fue desarrollado como un instrumento par: a) adelantar las acciones institucionales
y procedimientos operativos tendientes a mejorar la implementación del proyecto; b) garantizar que las
diferentes estrategias aplicadas fueran viables administrativa, financiera y jurídicamente. La
implementación de esta unidad se basó en los principios de eficiencia, eficacia y transparencia cuya
aplicación mejoró la capacidad de ejecución del presupuesto en forma notable (98.6 % del presupuesto
asignado por la Nación) (ver anexo 8). Esta unidad fue responsable del cumplimiento de todos los
procedimientos contractuales del proyecto, acorde con los normas establecidas por el Banco Mundial y
las leyes y reglamentaciones del Gobierno Nacional.

2.3. Valor Presente Neto / Tasa Interna de Retorno. Para mayor información consultar: Colombia,
Ministerio de Agricultura y Desarrollo Rural. Evaluación de Impacto del PRONATTA, Bogota, marzo
2004.
La evaluación de impactos económicos del PRONATTA se realizó con el liderazgo de consultores
externos y en dos ciclos: uno para los subproyectos que terminaron antes del 31 de enero de 2001 y el
segundo para el resto de subproyectos que terminaron hasta el 31 de diciembre de 2003. El resultado de
dichos estudios se combinó para calcular la Tasa Interna de Retorno (TIR) basados en precios de
mercado.

2.3.1. Valor presente neto / Tasa interna de retorno. La evaluación de impactos demuestra un valor
de la Tasa Interna de Retorno (TIR) del 86.4%, que es mucho mayor a la tasa de interés del 15%
considerado como el costo de la inversión del proyecto y al 12% considerada como la tasa social de la
inversión en Colombia (Costo de oportunidad del capital ­ OCC). Con un nivel de confianza del 95%, la
TIR a precios de mercado esta entre el 65..0 % y el 111.6 %. El valor de la TIR de los subproyectos de
investigación aplicada es superior con relación a los subproyectos de investigación adaptativa y
capacitación, en este orden. Para todos los casos se encuentra que la TIR promedio es del 42% con un
nivel de confianza del 95%. Para los subproyectos de capacitación tecnológica se observa que su
desviación estándar es superior, situándose alrededor de 129%, mientras que para los otros tipos de
subproyectos la desviación estándar es muy similar y se sitúa alrededor de 114%.
Para el segundo ciclo de evaluación de impactos, también se calculó la TIR a precios de mercado (TIRs)
para analizar el efecto de las imperfecciones del mercado. La relación TIR/TIRs fue de 1.5 para
investigación aplicada, 0.8 para investigación adaptativa y capacitación tecnológica. La relación
promedio entre TIR/TIRs fue de 0.9.




                                                  - 35 -

2.3.2. Generación de empleo y de Ingresos familiares Mayor información en la Evaluación de
Impacto del PRONATTA. La generación de empleo y el mejoramiento de los ingresos familiares de los
pequeños productores son uno de los objetivos del proyecto y de las políticas sectoriales del Gobierno
Nacional. Por esta razón, se enfatizó en estos indicadores en la evaluación de impactos de las opciones
tecnológicas generadas por los subproyectos. Los valores de los indicadores fueron obtenidos para cada
subproyecto dentro del cálculo de los costos de producción con y sin subproyecto para cada unidad
productiva (hectárea, familia o empresa). Los resultados sobre la generación de empleo muestra la
siguiente información:
i) El incremento promedio de los subproyectos cofinanciados por PRONATTA es de 80 jornales por año
por unidad productiva, lo cual equivale a casi 4 meses hombre de trabajo; ii) los subproyectos con
mayor generación de empleo fueron los de capacitación tecnológica y los de menor valor fueron los de
investigación aplicada; iii) Orinoquia fue la región donde los subproyectos tendieron a generar mayor
empleo y Occidente la región con menor generación de empleo; y iv) los subproyectos ejecutados por
universidades y ONG's presentaron los mayores valores de generación de empleo.
El incremento en los ingresos de los productores, especialmente los pequeños, se constituyó en uno de
los principales objetivos del proyecto desde su diseño. Por esto, en esta sección se pretende hacer un
estimativo de los alcances que el PRONATTA tuvo en los ingresos familiares de los beneficiarios,
considerando que el ingreso familiar tiene dos fuentes: i) la explotación económica de la finca y ii) la
mano de obra familiar o trabajo. El ingreso familiar se calculó multiplicando el BNAA (Beneficio Neto
Anual Actualizado) por el número de unidades productivas y sumándole el 50% del valor de los jornales
incrementados por la opción tecnológica. El promedio de incremento en el ingreso familiar por año es de
$4.259 millones (US$1,533; este valor equivalente al 75% de los ingresos anuales de un agricultor). Las
regiones de mayor incremento en el ingreso familiar son la Orinoquia y Centro Oriente.

2.4. Tasa de Retorno Financiera. La evaluación de impactos adelantada por el proyecto no estimó la
tasa de retorno financiera (TRF).

2.5. Impacto de desarrollo institucional.         Se basa en los resultados del estudio del Impacto
Institucional del PRONATTA, elaborado por el Rafael Echeverri Perico. Bogota, Colombia. .
2.5.1. La evaluación de impactos institucionales se adelantó por un equipo externo al PRONATTA,
revelando algunos aspectos institucionales en los cuales el proyecto muestra los mayores impactos en la
cultura de transferencia de tecnología: i) la capacidad para inducir e incentivar alianzas de cooperación
para el logro de una nueva cultura en el sistema de transferencia de tecnología, con lo cual se alcanza
uno de los más importantes propósitos de la política, consistente en involucrar mayor número de
actores, sumar capacidades, crear capital social, ganar legitimidad para la política pública, mejorar la
gobernabilidad y multiplicar los efectos de recursos escasos. 27% de los subproyectos fueron ejecutados
a través de uniones y la institucionalización de la Red (Corporación RED PAIS RURAL) creada por el
PRONATTA son un ejemplo de las estrategias que apuntaban a este propósito. La calificación dada en
este tema es de 5/5; ii) la transparencia en la ejecución de los del PRONATTA que, a pesar de que
podría considerarse como una condición mínima, se vuelve extraordinariamente importante por el
contraste con percepciones de serias dudas sobre otros programas del sector, con lo cual se ha logrado
ganar en confianza, legitimidad y compromiso de los participantes en el Sistema, al tiempo que
constituye un ejemplo de las posibilidades de los fondos competitivos de esta naturaleza, como
instrumentos idóneos para el desarrollo de política pública. Un ejemplo de transparencia y confianza en
la implementación del proyecto, es que durante la crisis causada por el terremoto del eje cafetero en la
cual los recursos del proyecto estuvieron en peligro, las regiones enviaron numerosas comunicaciones al
Presidente de la República y a diferentes autoridades financieras, solicitando la continuidad del
proyecto. La calificación dada sobre este aspecto fue de 5/5; iii) la selección de los ejecutores de los
recursos públicos a través de mecanismos participativos y usando criterios de excelencia y calidad,
como responsabilidad compartida entre ejecutores y administradores del proyecto, avanza enormemente
en los procesos de focalización, como uno de los mayores desafíos de la política pública. La calificación
dada sobre este aspecto fue 4/5; iv) la experiencia del PRONATTA valida el modelo de
fondocompetitivo, devela sus mecanismos, fortalezas y debilidades y marca un hito en la aplicación de
estos instrumentos de política en el sector. La evaluación da un puntaje de 5/ en este aspecto.

2.5.2. Los aspectos identificados en la evaluación como espacios en los cuales se lograron impactos



                                                   - 36 -

medios, ya sea en razón a que corresponden a procesos de más largo plazo o por requerir de la revisión
de las estrategias desarrolladas son: i) la integración de las universidades al Sistema, que si bien se
reconoce que ha sido amplia, dista mucho de aprovechar todo su potencial. La calificación dada en la
evaluación fue de 3/5; ii) las debilidades propias de las ONGs locales y regionales que acusan la
ausencia de una política o estrategia explícita para su fortalecimiento y reconocimiento que optimice su
capacidad de aporte, vínculo local y especialización`. La calificación dada en la evaluación es de 3/5; iii)
la transferencia de experiencias entre los diferentes subproyectos de forma que se explote más el
efecto demostrativo, la cooperación horizontal y la difusión de resultados; iv) los procesos de rendición
de cuentas que muestran grandes posibilidades por el nivel de participación generado por el esquema,
pero que aún tienen un gran espacio para incidir realmente en las decisiones de evaluación y gestión de
los subproyectos. La calificación dada en la evaluación de impactos fue 3/5; v) la definición
deprioridades y tipos de proyectos es un campo en donde el PRONATTA logró avanzar en forma
significativa ganando legitimidad y pertinencia de sus acciones; sin embargo, este proceso ha
evidenciado contradicciones, particularmente en las fases del proceso de desarrollo tecnológico que
debe apoyar, frente a lo cual no se han dado las suficientes discusiones y definiciones de política. La
calificación dada en la evaluación es 3/5; vi) la formación de masa crítica, proceso en el cual se han
debido enfrentar dificultades importantes con respecto a las capacidades estructurales de ejecutores y
beneficiarios, producto de carencias relacionadas con políticas más integrales de desarrollo humano. La
calificación dada en la evaluación es 3/5; vii) en la evaluación exante de proyectos se evidencian aún
espacios importantes para el mejoramiento de la aplicación de criterios estratégicos, así como
aplicaciones de criterios con sentido de muy corto plazo que condiciona el logro de la introducción de
visiones estratégicas de innovación, reconversión y desarrollo regional, entre otros. La calificación dada
en la evaluación es 3/5; viii) la difusión de los logros alcanzados por el proyecto no ha logrado permear
todos los espacios que podría. La calificación dada en la evaluación es 3/5; y ix) la programación
yejecución       presupuestal   es   muy   sensible   a   indefiniciones  e  incertidumbre    que   perturban
significativamente el exigente ambiente de confianza y coordinación que el modelo requiere. La
calificación dada en la evaluación es 3/5.

3. Factores que afectaron la Implementación y los Resultados

3.1. Factores que escapan del control del gobierno o agencia implementadora
Los siguientes factores que escapan al control del Gobierno afectaron la implementación del proyecto: i)
inestabilidad social en el país limitó el alcance del proyecto en algunas regiones y también limitó la
intensidad en la supervisión de actividades de los subproyectos por parte de la agencia implementadora
y por el Banco Mundial; ii) el bajo nivel de participación de los Gremios; iii) el apoyo de la sociedad en
general, especialmente de las regiones, para solicitar la continuidad del proyecto en el momento en que
se tuvo peligro sobre su continuidad por el terremoto del eje cafetero; iv) la existencia de una fuerte
capacidad institucional en las regiones para participar en diferentes aspectos del proyecto.

3.2. Factores generalmente sujetos al control por el gobierno
Los siguientes factores sujetos al control del Gobierno afectaron la implementación del proyecto: i) Por
efectos del desastre causado por un terremoto en el eje cafetero en 1999, el Gobierno Nacional tomó la
decisión de redireccionar recursos para la recuperación de dicha región, incluidos los recursos del
PRONATTA. Por solicitud de las regiones y de diferentes organizaciones y a partir de una propuesta
técnica presentada por el PRONATTA, el Gobierno decidió mantener el proyecto pero con un recorte
presupuestal de US$15 millones destinados al FOREC (Fondo para la reconstrucción del eje cafetero de
la Presidencia de la República). Como resultado, la cantidad total de recursos del empréstito con el
Banco Mundial se redujo a US$36 millones,con una reducción en los recursos disponibles en el fondo
competitivo; ii) el proceso de descentralización promovido por el Gobierno Naxcional, indujo a la
autonomía regional y local acerca de la definición de prioridades de desarrollo, incentivando el
fortalecimiento institucional y permitiendo una mejor expresión de la demanda de servicios tecnológicos;
iii) la flexibilidad administrativa que permitió contratar con entidades fiduciarias para la administración de
los recurso financieros, favoreció la eficiencia del proyecto; iv) la implementación del proyecto se afectó
en algunas oportunidades debido al recorte en la cantidad de recursos requeridos y retrazo en los
desembolsos por parte del Ministerio de Hacienda.




                                                      - 37 -

3.3. Factores generalmente sujetos al control de la agencia implementadora
3.3.1. Necesidad de ajustar técnica y financieramente proyectos que terminaban en el año 2004. En la
última convocatoria del año 2000 y de acuerdo a la aprobación del portafolio de proyectos por parte del
Comité Directivo del Programa, se cofinanciaron proyectos que tenían una duración de 36 meses, lo que
implicaba que un número considerable de estos terminaban en diferentes momentos del año 2004. En
virtud de los requerimientos del Banco Mundial, se hizo necesario un ejercicio entre el PRONATTA y las
organizaciones ejecutoras para recortar el tiempo de ejecución de dichos proyectos sin afectar el logro
de los objetivos particulares y los resultados de los mismos. Este ajuste se logró adelantar sin mayores
contratiempos y es la razón por la cual se tuvo un grupo de 94 subproyectos que terminaron actividades
a diciembre de 2003 y que fueron liquidados en el primer trimestre de 2004.

3.3.2. Por otro lado la MCU contó con los siguientes factores positivos en el desarrollo del proyecto,
entre otros: i) El personal de la unidad coordinadora contó con estabilidad durante todo el proyecto lo
cual permitió una continuidad     en las estrategias y un mejor aprovechamiento de las experiencias
ganadas; ii) la unidad coordinadora contó con personal competente y comprometido, favoreciendo su
capacidad de negociación con el Gobierno y con los ejecutores de subproyectos; iii) el permanente
apoyo técnico y financiero del IICA fue un aspecto positivo en la implementación del proyecto; iv) la
estructura organizaciones del PRONATTA permitió la coordinación de las políticas y actividades del
proyecto, apoyado por la composición plural del Comité Directivo en donde participaron diferentes
actores del SNCTA, presidido por el Viceministro de Agricultura y Desarrollo Rural; y v) PRONATTA
logró un alto nivel de pertinencia de los subproyectos, aspecto reconocido por los mismos beneficiarios
en diferentes escenarios (eventos de entrega de resultados, encuentros de evaluación de impactos y en
talleres de sistematización de la experiencia, entre otros).

4. Costos y financiamiento.

Estas cifras de ejecución, son al 31 de marzo del 2.004 y no incluye la evaluación técnica, evaluación
financiera y liquidación de contratos con entidades ejecutoras de subproyectos que terminaron a 31 de
diciembre de 2003, que se completará en mayo de 2004.
Los recursos totales implementados por el PRONATTA fue de US$ 85.85 millones, que es 102.21%
mayor a lo programado en el SAR; esto se debe al incremento en los recursos de contrapartida
(entidades ejecutoras de subproyectos y Gobierno Nacional). La MCU (incluyendo el costo de los
paneles) presentó un costo de US$ 10.4 millones, lo cual significa una ejecución del 62 % de los
recursos programados. En el SAR se programaron recursos por valor de US$ 67.6 (crédito más
contrapartida), para el financiamiento de subproyectos; con la enmienda de agosto de 1999, que
redireccionó algunos recursos para el FOREC, US$ 10.4 millones del crédito fueron recortados de los
recursos para subproyectos; PRONATTA cofinanció US$ 60.30 millones en subproyectos, lo que
representa el 105.9% de lo programado.

4.1. Manejo Financiero. Este aspecto del Proyecto estuvo bien programado en el sentido que garantizó
recursos para las actividades de desarrollo tecnológico en periodos mayores de un año. Permitió
contratar una Fiducia para la administración de recursos, que dio agilidad y eficiencia en la ejecución y
contratación financiera. Por otro lado, la cooperación entre el MADR con el IICA dio soporte financiero y
técnico a la MCU, permitiendo la ágil y buena organización del proyecto. El Banco Mundial atendió las
inquietudes financieras del PRONATTA de manera altamente satisfactoria.

4.2. Auditoria Financiera. La Auditoria Financiera fue presentada durante la implementación del
proyecto, cuyos reportes fueron aceptados por el Banco Mundial.

4.3. Plan de Desembolsos. Durante los primeros años del PRONATTA (1995 ­ primer semestre de
1998), la mayoría de recursos provinieron del Gobierno Colombiano, debido a que en aquel momento la
situación financiera del país no permitía la incorporación de recursos foráneos. Esta situación provocó
un desbalance en el pari passu. Posteriormente al año 1998, la situación cambió, determinando que los
recursos del PRONATTA provinieran fundamentalmente del crédito.




                                                   - 38 -

5. Sostenibilidad

La sostenibilidad del proyecto se considera como satisfactoria.

5.1. Razones para la calificación de la sostenibilidad
Uno de los objetivos del PRONATTA fue la validación de un nuevo modelo de asignación de recursos
públicos a través de un fondo competitivo. El proyecto validó este instrumento, lo que ha sido
reconocido por el Gobierno, hasta el punto de que en la política de ciencia y tecnología del actual
Ministro de Agricultura, en su Metaplan, considera la operación de un fondo competitivo bajo el modelo
diseñado por el PRONATTA. El MADR actualmente estudia la financiación y diseño de dicho fondo, en
el cual los instrumentos diseñados por el PRONATTA serán incorporados. Algunos de estos
instrumentos son: Metodologías de semonitoreo y evaluación, metodología de evaluación de impactos,
metodología para sistematización de experiencias, SITA (Sistema de información), el cual ha sido
adoptado como el Sistema de Información Tecnológica del MADR, el modelo de organización de la
demanda a través de redes (Corporación RED PAIS RURAL). Adicionalmente, las diferentes tecnologías
desarrolladas a través de la implementación del PRONATTA están siendo aplicadas por los agricultores.


5.2. Acciones hacia la sostenibilidad
El MADR y el Banco Mundial están preparando un nuevo proyecto cuyo principal componente es
desarrollo tecnológico; en este proyecto los recursos los proyectos serán asignados mediante un fondo
competitivo y las más recientes instrucciones del Ministro para las entidades que realizan investigación y
capacitación es que los recursos les serán asignados a través de mecanismo de competencia.

6. Desempeño del Banco y del Prestatario

Banco Mundial
Crédito: El desempeño del Banco en el proceso de crédito fue satisfactorio.
Supervisión: El Banco ha garantizado el cumplimiento de los acuerdos pactados, lo cual contribuyó a la
estabilidad del proyecto y el logro del cumplimiento de los objetivos. Además ha prestado asesoría
permanente sobre los trámites y las nuevas experiencias similares en otros lugares del mundo que
permitieran mejorar éste. Así mismo, ha apoyado con recursos y asesorías el continuo mejoramiento de
las estrategias del Proyecto para el cumplimiento eficiente de los objetivos.

Desempeño general del Banco. Por las observaciones anteriores, se considera que el desempeño
general del Banco es satisfactorio

Prestatario
Preparación. El papel del prestatario en la preparación del proyecto fue satisfactoria. Como resultado del
esfuerzo conjunto entre el prestatario y el Banco, el diseño del proyecto probó ser apropiado para la
obtención de los objetivos.
En la ejecución. El desempeño del gobierno en la ejecución fue satisfactoria. El desempeño de la
Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto fue satisfactoria. El Departamento de la Función Pública de la
Presidencia de la Republica de Colombia Certificate dated December 05, 2000. Signed by the President
Andres Pastrana and Director of Administration Mauricio Zuluaga Ruiz, concedió un premio a
PRONATTA como una excelente Unidad Administrativa del Gobierno Colombiano. Por otra parte el
Departamento de Asuntos Sociales y Económicos, División de Desarrollo sostenible de la Naciones
Unidas reconociendo a PRONATTA como un Proyecto exitoso Department of Economic and Social
Affairs. 2000. Sustainable Development, Success stories. Volume 4. United Nations. Pp. 106.

En General. En general el desempeño del prestario es calificado como satisfactorio, por lo resultados de
los diferentes componentes y que las diferentes instancias operativas apoyaron la ejecución del
PRONATTA.




                                                  - 39 -

7. Lecciones aprendidas

El PRONATTA en su implementación y a partir de los ejercicios de: (i) sistematización de la experiencia;
(ii) evaluación de impactos institucionales y; (iii) evaluación de impactos de proyectos, resalta como
relevantes las siguientes lecciones:

l    El modelo de Fondo Competitivo es viable en el contexto sociopolítico colombiano. Ya que el
     Sistema de Ciencia y Tecnología Agropecuaria a respondido favorablemente a su forma de
     operación.
l    Los fondos competitivos son instrumentos eficaces para reducir inequidad regional. Su ejecución
     debe estar siempre acompañada de un fuerte componente de desarrollo institucional que facilite la
     construcción de capacidades en las regiones menos competitivas.
l    La libre concurrencia facilita la inclusión regional si está regulada por reglas de juego claras y
     transparentes, que generen confianza y recuperen la credibilidad en los programas del Estado.
l    El fortalecimiento de los actores sociales de base, como parte de los procesos de desarrollo
     tecnológico, facilita la participación de diferentes actores, facilita la adopción, mejora la cobertura e
     incrementa la efectividad y el impacto de los procesos tecnológicos.
l    El trabajo en alianzas estratégicas facilita la participación y el acercamiento entre actores, incluido el
     sector privado, potencializa el logro de resultados y favorece la construcción de capital social.
l    La sostenibilidad del cambio institucional. El proceso que ayuda al cambio cultural de asignación y
     ejecución de recursos públicos a los problemas de desarrollo tecnológico requiere: a) Tiempo para
     que la institucionalidad adopte y use los instrumentos; y b) La permanencia y el compromiso de las
     instituciones.
l    El seguimiento y la evaluación del Proyecto y de los Subproyectos cofinanciados, debe ser un
     componente fuerte, bien diseñado y con metodologías flexibles, desde el inicio del Proyecto. La
     participación de los beneficiarios y los demás actores del Sistema es esencial para su éxito.
l    La metodología y estrategia diseñada por el PRONATTA para las temáticas especiales de las
     regiones y la participación organizada en la Redes contribuyeron a la descentralización y la demanda
     organizada y permitieron la construcción regional de escenarios para cada convocatoria, lo cual
     facilito la priorización de los subproyectos presentados para el desarrollo tecnológico regional. En
     general, los paneles de evaluación regional agregaron valor y enriquecieron los procesos de
     selección y monitoreo, contribuyendo a que las diferentes visiones de las todas las disciplinas
     condujeran a una acción central e integrada.
l    La metodología desarrollada por PRONATTA para el monitoreo, evaluación y difusión de resultados
     promovió el fortalecimiento de las capacidades de los actores (productores, tecnólogos e
     investigadores) que hicieron parte del proceso.
l    La evaluación deI impacto de las inversiones públicas,que              en Colombia no es común ; la
     metodología para evaluación de impactos diseñada por el PRONATTA mostró que este
     procedimiento es factible y realizable y que el Gobierno debe promover su adopción por las
     instituciones.

La experiencia de PRONATTA probó que es posible la articulación de las demandas regionales con la
política pública, bajo los principios de equidad y pertinencia; también probó que es posible la asignación
y ejecución de recursos públicos en forma transparente.




                                                      - 40 -

- 41 -

