Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8274
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TU!>KEY
NORTHERN FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 1585-TU)
JLA'UA2xj jl qqb
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Tsis doonment has a restied dsbuibon and way be used by rcipiet only in the pefomance of
thbir ofile  duoi  Its contents may not oherwie be dscosed witout Wodd DBnk audKrIton.



CurreneY Eauivalents
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira (TI)
Appraisal 1977    US$1.00 - TL  25.OO
1986    US$1.00 - TL 674.50
1987    US$1.00 - TL 857.21
Government of Turkey Fiscal Year
March 1 - February 28 (through 1981)
March 1 - December 31 (1982)
January 1 - December 31 (from 1983
Abbreviations
CP       - World Bank Cooperative Programe
FAO      - Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FPMU     -  Forest Project Monitoring Unit
MOF      - Ministry of Forests
O/M      - Operations and Maintence
OGM      -  General Directorate of Logging Production and Forest Management
ORKOY    - Directorate of Forest Village Development
SAR      -  Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP     - United Nations Development Prograsme



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washtngton. D C 20433
U.S.A.
Ofice of ODwecta-Gewal
opwat..m h,aat'w'
December 22, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Turkey
Northern Forestry Proiect (Loan 1585-TU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled Projeci:
Completion Report on Turkey Northern Forestry Project (Loan 1585-TU)"
prepared by the Europe, Middle East North Africa Regional Office with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a estriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OmCaL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURE
NORTHERN FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 1585-TU)
Table of Contents
Preface             .............. .           ................... ..........   i
Evaluation S-mmary            .................................  . ........   .    ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S OPERATION
1.  Project Identity ........................
2.  Background ........................                 ... 1o.o   ..
3.  Project Objectives and Description .....t.....             ......           2
4.  Project Design and Organization                           .                 3
5.  Project Implementation .4....                   ............                4
6. Project Results ...............                                              6
7.  Project Sustainability..          ......................                    7
8. Bank Performance..                                                           7
9.  Borrower Performance.         ........... ..         .......   ........     8
10.  Project Relationship t .. ..........................   10
11.  Consulting Services ..... .... . o ............................  ......   11
12.  Project Documentation and Data ......           .................... too.   11
13.  Summary and Conclusions ...............  ............    11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project ObSectives .....              ...................  .......    15
2.  Introduction of Project ..................................    16
3.  Project Organization ............... .       ..................    16
4.  Important Forest Targets and Achievements of the Project    ......  17
5.  Appreciation of the Project .           ..................................   17
6.  Reasons for Proposed Revised Targets in 1982               .............   20
7.  Steps Which Were Taken to Try to Resolve the Difficulties   .....   22
8.  Other Subjects with Related to the Project ..             ..............   23
9.  Conclusion ........... ................... ......................   23
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans ..... .     . ....... ...............................   43
2.  Project Timetable ............................................... .#..**   43
3.  Loan Disbursements .......... ...................   .   .....46
4.  Project Implementation ....................... ....................   48
5.  Project Costs and Financing ...           to ...............               50
A.  Project Costs .....           .................... .*# ..................   50
B.  Project Financing ........................ ..               ........   50
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
6.  Project Results . . .            . . . . . . . .                       51
A.  Direct Benefits  .......................    51
Be Economic Impact .       ..............                             52
C. Financial Impact  ........................... .......,.....    52
D.  Studties ......................                      ......    53
7.  Status of Covenants                      ...... ........       ...    53
8.  Use of Bank Resources        .......................    55
A.  Staff Inputs .......................    55
B. Missions   .......................   56
C* Costs                                                      ..........  57
Attachments
1. Value of equipment and vehicles financed out of the Loan
2. Procurement of equipment and vehicles - number of units, by
source of financing
3. Financial and economic analysis
Annex 1s Comments by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Rural Affairs ...........                                        65
M;aps IBRD 13330R1



-i-
TURKEY
NORTHERN FORESTRY PROJECT
(Loan 1585-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
ii.         This project completiont report (PCR) reviews performance under
Loan 1585-TU (US$86.0 million) for the Northern Forestry Project, which was
made in June 1978. The final disbursement took place on April 13, 1988, and
the undisbursed balance of US$800,000 was cancelled as of that date.
ii.         The completion report was prepared by the  AO/World Bank
Cooperative Program, with the exception of this preface, the Evaluation
Summary and part of paras 8, 25 ancd 26, paras 10, 31, 34 and 35, and Part II,
Tables 3a and 8A, which are the responsibility of Bank staff.
iii.        The Final Report on the project prepared by the Government was
submitted to the Bank in July 1988. A copy is included as Part II of the PCR.
The entire PCR was sent to the borrower for comment, and the borrower's
response is attached as an annex.



-ii-
TURKEY
NORTHERN FORESTRY PROJECT
(Loan 1585-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Prosect Background and Obiectives
1.        About a quarter of Turkey's land area is classified as forest land.
The northern forest region represents 60X of Turkey's forest resources and is
considered to have the greatest potential to contribute to economic
development. At the time of project preparation, Turkey was a net importer of
forest products although it had major reserves of unutilized wood.  A long-
term integrated forestry and forest industry development program for the
northern region covering the period 1975-1995, prepared with UNDP/FAO
assistance, was the basis for the Government's request for the Bank to finance
this project. Survey results reported that the region's industrial roundwood
output could be tripled by 1995 through improved forest management systems
including conversion of natural forests to faster growing industrial forest
plantations, improvement and expansion of the forest access road network,
reforestation and provision of equipment to permit exploitation of steep
inaccessible areas. The project comprised the 1979-85 time slice of the
longer term forestry development program and aimed at (i) increasing
industrial roundwood production, (ii) improving forest management planning,
(iii) creating additional employment for forest villagers and
(iv) strengthening development of forest villages. Total project costs were
estimated at $915 million of which the foreign exchange component (about 10)
was to be financed from the Bank loan ($86 million equivalent).
Implementation ExRerience
2.        Implementation of this project was affected by the following
factors: (i) the identification report substantial'ly overestimated forest
resources available in the area, did not sufficiently anticipate the technical
problems involved in regenerating beech/spruce forests in the region and was



too ambitious in its other project targets; (ii) forestry staff reluctance to
change traditional forest management practices was intensified by the problems
in (i) above; (iii) wood demand was reduced due to depressed economic
conditions at the beginning of the project period provided a convenient excuse
for not achieving production targets; (iv) lack of good dialogue precluded
frank discussion, until late in the project period, of the issues causing
forestry staff resistance to the forest management practices the project
intended to introduce; (v) the implementing agency lacked experience with Bank
procurement procedures, leading to delays in procurement of machinery and
equipment critical to implementation of project targets; and (--i) inadequate
consideration was made in the project design of socioeconomic conditions, such
as the competition for resources between forestry officials and villagers
wishing to use the areas for grazing.
Results
3.        The factors listed above led to substantial shortfalls in meeting
project targets. In particular, annual roundwood production, which was
expected to increase from 5 million m to 10 million i3, remained at pre-
project levels. The project had only minor impact on improving forest
management practices, which had been one of the projects main aims.
Nevertheless, since the project financed the replacement of overaged equipment
and production would have decreased without such equipment replacement, the
project still had an acceptable economic rate of return of 27% (as compared to
the anticipated 76% ERR in the appraisal report). However, since wood prices
in Turkey are held substantially below world market prices, the financial rate
of return of the project was negative.
Sustainabili tY
4.        Over the longer run, the most significant effect of the project is
likely to be the institutionalization of management plans for annual forestry
operations. The plans prepared, if implemented satisfactorily, should provide
a basis for substantial increases in forest I-Arvests (estimated at about a
one-third to one-half increase in the present cut). Impressive gains were
also achieved in plantation establishment, which are expected to be continued.
A start has been made in improving the understanding of the importance of
obtaining the cooperation of village communities, but continued efforts in
this regard are essential. Greater importance must also be given to
mechanisms for transferring the successful findings of the forestry research
institutions so that they can be introduced on a field trial basis.
Lessons Learned
5.        The project demonstrates the critical importance of realistic
project preparation, including adequate surveys of resources available,
appropriate consideration of technical and socioeconomic problems, and careful
assessment of institutional capabilities. It also indicates that new



-iv-
technologies being introduced from other countries should be tested first on a
pilot scale. The project also shows that sometimes project financed
investments may still be worthwhile in spite of failure to achieve important
institutional and technical goals which the project aimed at addressing. It
would, of course, have been much better to have identified the real issues
impeding project performance much earlier in the implementation period,
permitting an appropriate restructuring of the project. The delay in
identifying the real technical problems in the project design, which increased
the reluctance of forestry staff to adopt changed practices, illustrates the
importance of creating a spirit of trust between the implementing agency and
Bank staff, permitting problems and disagreements to be addressed frankly and
openly so that appropriate remedies can be devised while there is still time
for their implementation.



NORTHERN FORESTRY P dJECT
(LOAN 1585-TU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANR'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity.
Project Name:       Northern Forestry Project
Loan No:            1585-TU
RVP Unit:           EMIAG
Country:            Turkey
Sector:             Agriculture
Subsector:          Forestry
2. 9ackaround
1.       Some 20 million hectares or one quarter of Turkey's  land  area  is
*lassified a, forestland. About half of this is considered as high forest
located mainly in the mountain ranges and hills near the Black, Aegean and
Mediterranean seas. Management of Turkey's forests has always been difficult
due to the scattered nature of small forest areas, degraded forests, steep
slopes. rocky soils, and the rights of the villagers to work in the forest
and to be supplied with forest products. Some of the least accessible forest
areas have had little disturbance from their natural state, but most forest
areas have had the better trees continually cut from them, for many
centuries. The remaining areas of forests which were considered to have the
greatest potential to contribute to economic development are those of the
North Turkey region, which contain some 10 million hectares of forest land
of which half is classified as productive forest.
2.       In the 1970's Government efforts to  develop  the  forestry  sector
have been directed towards: (i) carrying out of a series of forest resources
and  exploitation  studies  with  UNDP/FAO  assistance;   (ii)   encouraging
development of integrated forest industries to maximize use of forest
resources, and (iii) raising living standards of forest villagers. On the
completion of three major studies, about eighty percent of Turkey's forest
area had been surveyed and feasibility studies for integral forestry and
forest industry development prepared for about two-thirds of the surveyed
areas. One of the studies which surveyed the northern forests resulted in
preparation   of   a  long-term  integrated  forestry  and  forest  industry
development programme which aimed at bringing these forests into full
production in the period 1975-1995. Preliminary findings from the study
provided the basis for the Balikesir Newsprint Project, an integrated
sawmill and newsprint manufacturing complex in Western Turkey for which the
Bank provided a loan of US$ 70 million in 1976 (Loan 1258-TU). The detailed
forest development programme resulting from the study, which the Government
had accepted in full and requested Bank assistance in implementing, formed
the basis for the Northern Forestry Project, which was to extend modern
systems of forest management, initiated under the Ardeniz (Mediterranean)
Forest Utilization Project (Loan 957-TU) and UNDP/FAO technical assistance
proi,   <  to Turk, 's    or fora4t ar,  .



-2-
3.       Suirvey results had indicated  that  the  1976  national  industrial
roundwood output of about 6.6 million m3 could be more than tripled by 1995
with the introduction of an integrated forest management system involving:
stabilization of the existing forest-road systems to lengthen the logging
season; const.uction of new forest access roads; reforestation: and more
intensified management of forest areas. In addition, conversion of natural
forest to fast-growing industrial forest,  plantations  would  ensure  future
self-sufficiency in industrial roundwood by the end of this century. As a
consequence,  the  forestry  subsector   would   be   able   to   contribute
significantly more to the country's development than it had in the past.
Since 1973, there hae been a gradual deterioration in the external trading
position of Turkey which culminated in a serious balance of payment crisis
in 1977.
3. Project Objectives and Descrintion
4.       The project comprised a seven-year 1979-85 time slice of the  long-
term (1975-95) forestry development programme for Turkey's northern forest
region which represents about 60% of the national forest resources. With the
principal aim of preventing Turkey from becoming a massive net importer of
forest products by the mid-1980s, the project was to: (i) increase
industrial  roundwood  production  in the undertilized northern forests from
the estimated level of6.5million m3 in  1978  to  10  million  m   in  1985.
thereby providing additional raw material to help meet market demand
elsewhere in the country, as well as in the project area which incorporated
16 of the country's 26 forest conservancies; (ii) improve forest management
planning on some 5 million ha of these forests: (iii) create additional
employmient for forest villagers; and (ivl strengthen an onaoing programme
for development of forest villages.
5.       The project provided for:  (a)  implementation  of  an  intensified
forest production and management programme, including reforestation; (b) the
construction of about 26,000 km of forest and logging extraction roads,
including about 400 km of village access roads; (c) stabilization of 25,000
km of existing and newly constructed roads, including about 2,000 km of
village access roads; (d) fixed and mobile mechanical workshops for
equipment maintenance; (e) logging equipment needed for extraction of logs
from steep inaccessible areas which cannot be harvested by manual methods
(comprising about 10 to 15% of the project area); (f) establishment and
planting of industrial plantations of about 76,000 ha of currently non-
productive lands with fast-growing tree species and of 86,000 ha of
conventional afforestation; (g) erosion control works in about 57,000 ha of
forests which form part of critical water catchment areas; (h) range
improvement in about 64,000 ha of potential grazing areas, with special
emphasi. on pasture improvement and the initiation of pilot rotational
grazing schemes for forest villages; (i) construction of seven new forest
nurseries for seedling production with an aggregate capacity of about 25
million plants; (j) intensification of forestry research and revision of
current management plans; (k) forest protection and conservation works
including construction of additional fire towers: (1) fencing of forest
regeneration areas to prevent browsing by livestock; (m) pilot wildlife and
environmental protection programmes in forest areas and national parks; (n)
training of Ministry of Forestry (MOF) personnel in forestry management and
log extraction techniques through 144 man-months of training fellowships
abroad; and (o) on-the-job training  of  MOF  personnel  in  the  fields  of
management planning, machinery operation, and industrial plantations, and
training of villagers in forestry operations.



- 3-
6.       Total  project  costs  were  estimated  at USS 915 million of which
ahout 10% represented foreign exchange requirements. Almost 60% of total
base  costs were to be generated by civil wor.s, equipment and machinery for
road construction. Project implementation was to be carried out by MOf
through four of its General Directorates as follows: OGM, the General
Directorate of Logging Production and Forest Management, was to implement
the project road construction and log extraction programmes and those
reforestation operations relating to regeneration of natural forest in
logged-over areas; AGM, the General Directorate of Afforestation and Erosion
Control,  was  to  implement  the  project   forestry   works   related   to
establishment of industrial plantations, afforestation of degraded forest.
erosion control, forest maintenance, protection and range improvement;
ORKOY, the General Directorate of Forest Village Affairs, was to be
responsible for planning the project village road component and range
improvement works and; MPG, the General Directorate of National Parks and
Environmental Protection, was to implement environmental protection and
wildlife breeding programmes in the project area. Project coordination was
to be carried out by the Forestry Planning and Project Monitoring Unit
(FPMU) to be formed by strengthening MOF's existing Planning Unit. To ensure
achievement of project production targets, the existing management plans for
Project Area Forests were to be revised to introduce intensive management
techniques, including shorter rotations and reforestation with fast-growing
species.
4. Proiect Design and Organization
7.       The  overall concept to satisfy domestic demand for forest products
from national forest resources rather than through imports was sound. At the
time of project preparation, Turkey was a net imiporter of forest products,
although it had major reserves of unutilized wood. It was believed that if
access into the forest areas was not improved and additional log production
thereby increased, the country could become a massive net importer of forest
products by the mid-1980s. Considering that the country's external trading
position was already structurally weak. there was a good rationale for a
project that would help increase the supply of wood from national resources.
8.       The  idea  of  extending  the  more  dynamic  forest  systems being
introduced through the Bank-financed Akdeniz Forestry Project into the
underutilized forests of the Northern region, thereby improving their
productivity and ensuring that Turkey would remain self-sufficient in forest
products, at least until the end of the century, had been fully accepted by
Government and Bank assistance had been requesteo for its realization.
Whether the Northern Forestry Project was the appropriate vehicle to bring
about the proposed changes is open to question because ot the time the
Turkish foresters were not ready to implement a project that involved
profound changes in forest management on a large-scale. The physical
targets set during preparation and appraisal - particularly in terms of
industrial roundwood production, road construction, revision of management
plans and clearfelling - were too ambitious, and the technical problems
associated with introducing the project concept in all parts of the project
area were not sufficiently anticipated.
9.       The  approach to leave project execution to the existing management
of MOF was justified. The main directorates concerned were considered to be
well organized and had an existing administrative network spread throughout
the forest area; they had prove.: their ability to implement large-scale
forestry   production   and  conservation  programmes,  and  their  training
programmes provided assurance of a steady supply of both professional and
technical  grade  foresters for future expansion. The difficulties, however,
of achieving effective coordination and improved forest management planning,



- 4 -
have been underestimated. The attempt to ensure integrated forward planning
of  field  operations  by  the  participating   directorates   through   the
strengthening of MOF's Planning Unit failed. The location of the emerging
Forestry Planning and Project Monitoring Unit (FPMU) in the Ministry made
sense, but to pla% its role properly it would have required a senior
Director armed with suitable authority.
10.       Seen ir, retrospect,  the project as designed and
appraised was irpossible to implement successfully at the time.
rhe tiqnificant increase in industrial roundwood production - the
project's major objective - largely through providing equipment
and improving road access to the apparently underutilized forests
of the north, was unlikely to be achieved for the following
reasons:
r) The -esource base turned out to be much smaller than
expected at appraisil, a fact that became evident in the
latter part of 1983, and estimated demand did not
materialize.
ii) Technical problems were encountered with regenerating
the beech/spruce forests of the Black Sea region.
J
iii) The resistance of senior forestry officials to changes
in management planning (the reasons for which will be
explained below) were underestimated.
5. Proiect Implementation
11.      The most critical  variance  between  planned  and  actual  project
implementation was the shortfall in project targets, particularly industrial
roundwood production, clearfelling and artificial regeneration, revision of
forest management plans and road construction improvement.
12.      Industrial  Roundwood  Production.  There  are  a number of factors
which could not have been foreseen and that have accounted for the level of
production remaining essentially similar to what it was during the six year
prior to project start-up. During the early project years (1981-mid 1983)
Turkey's poor economic situation depressed timber sales, log depots filled
up and OGM was forced to reduce its annual allowable cut. It was therefore
acceptable at the time to assume project target shortfalls were due almost
entirely to depressed demand for logs. However, when the economic situation
improved in the latter part of 1983 and 1984, but did not result in
increased log production, it was clear that other factors were at work which
had been overshadowed by depressed log demand. namely a reduced resource
base and technical problems associated with regeneration of forests in tlle
Black Sea Region.
13.      Due  to the fact that no aerial photographs were taken between 1979
and 1981, the first new inventories did not become available until 1982.
This meant that the first revised forest management plans for the project
area did not appear until the latter part of 1983 and it was not until the
February 1984 Supervision Mission that the Bank was informed that the re-
inventoried areas were showing some 25% less productive high forests than
had been asumed in the inventories used for project preparation. On turther
investigation  it  was  also  found  that  OGM  was   experiencing   serious



difficulties in regenerating (naturally or artificially) their beech/spruce
forests which constituted a significant part of the project area's resource
base.
14.      Faced   with   (i)   reduced   areas  of  productive  high  forest,
difficulties over regeneration of the beech/spruce forests (the pine forest
areas which made up the remainder of the project area are relatively free of
regeneration problems and (ii) a far from buoyant demand for logs in the
early eighties, OGM decided it was prudent to keep their production of
industrial roundwood at levels which turned out to be at about the pre-
project levels. However, even to maintain production at pre-project levels
an ever increasing proportion of the allowablt annual cut had to come from
maintenance or 'bakim" thinnings in the younger aged class stands, rather
than from the oldest stands which were prescribed for regeneration over the
20-years plan (regeneration) period.
15.      Clearfelling  and  Artificial  Regeneration. The data indicate that
the project logged nearly twice the area proposed by SAR to remove
considerably less volume. The reason is the project's reluctance to enter
into a large clearfelling programme, which would achieve high logging
volumes per hectare. Instead, the project increased its operations in
shelterwood and "bakim" fellings. This change in plan was a forest
management decision. The logging and road cost advantages offered by a
clearfelling operation were not realized. Artificial regeneration of cut
over forests remained below SAR target because a decision had been taken in
1980 by OGM to rely as far as possible on natural regeneration in order to
cut costs; this, however. has not helped much as difficulties have been
experienced in the natural regeneration of spruce and beech. OGM had also
found it difficult to raise .ifficient seedlings to match requirements,
particularly in the spruce and beech areas.
16.      Revision of Forest Management Plans. The SAR estimated that all  16
conservancies which comprised the project area and amount to some 5 million
hectares would have revised plans by the end of 1985. This has proven
unrealistic given the short period available for taking aerial photographs
in the Black Sea Area (July 15 - August 15), lack of aerial photos for the
first three years (1979-81), difficulties of retaining trained staff in the
management areas (due to tough working conditions and lack of any financial
incentive) and differing v;ews on the extent to which the new revised plans
should differ from the old plans and the models that had been established in
the Garzipasa and Mut Isletmes (District) located in Antalya.
17.      Road  construction. Road activities in the project have not met SAR
targets. OGM chose to not acquire all the machinery allocated early in the
project, and therefore mobilized a programme much smaller than planned. The
reason stated for this was that the conservancies did not demand the scale
of road programme expected in the SAR and this in turn was the result of the
decision to implement a reduced logging programme. Therefore, the reduced
road programme was a result and not the cause of the shortfall in logging. A
factor affecting road activities later in the project was the transfer of
the road construction unit from OGM to the Directorate of Rural Services.
This resulted from the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry and became effective in January 1985. Since then OGM staff
expressed unhappiness with the slow progress in forest road construction.
18.      During the initial years project  implementation  suffered  from  a
weak project management. This was compounded by an adverse economic climate.
OGM's decision to keep production of industrial roundwood production at pre-
project levels rather than increase it, is a reflection of the depressed
for        -'i  t'  ^ly ^Y O   t    ^s  It-    isi - in 1    tn   l IV



-6-
as far as possible on natural regeneration instead of promoting artificial
regeneration of cutover forest was an attempt to cut costs in a period of
local funds shortage. Delays in the procurement of equipment and in
implementing the fellowship and consultancy programmes as well as a slow
adoption of innovative management systems were major factors responsible for
not achieving SAR targets.
6. Prniect Resujt
19.      Principal  project objectives were only partially achieved: (i) The
increase in annual roundwood production (from 5 million m , to a sustainable
10 million m 3) in the underutilized forests of North Turkey, did not take
place as was intended. The project has only helped to maintain production at
about the pre-project level; (ii) The project has had only little impact on
improving silvicultural, management and nursery practices or on resolving
regeneration problems which it was hoped would be one of the project's major
achievements. Although a start has been made by reducing rotations,
increasing the area covered by one management plan and improving inventory
methods, the revised management plans are still too detailed, lengthy and
rigid and thus lack the flexibility needed to respond to new research
findings,  and/or  changing  markets;  (iii)  The  creation  of   additional
employment for forest villagers was limited because project works undertaken
were much smaller than anticipated at appraisal: (iv) Since the output of
industrial roundwood remained at the pre-project level, no additional raw
material was generated by the project for small private sector village
sawmills, for major forest industries located in the region and for several
large-scale state-owned forest industries: (v) The intention to save forest
imports was not fulfilled. The value of forest imports rose from US$ 6.4
million in 1982 to US$ 168.8 million in 1987. DVring the same period the
volume   of  imports  increased  from  10,300 m   to  1.4  million m :  (vi)
Achievements in erosion control, range improvement, amenity planting,
protection forest improvement and the village roads programme remained also
below target largely because these activities were considered less important
than the project's key components.
20.      At  appraisal the financial viability and economic justification of
the project were based principally on the following two assumptions, namely:
(i) that the project would generate large quantifiable benefits in the form
of incremental industrial roundwood production and (ii) that in the absence
of the project MOF would not undertake significant alternative investments,
in which case all forestry operations would cease by 1982 since their
existing equipment had been planned to be scrapped by that date. The basic
financial and economic rates of return then were 70% and 76% respectively.
At completion, the value of production attributable to the project turned
out to be much lower than anticipated because the annual production of
industrial roundwood had remained below the pre-project level of 5 million
m throughout the disbursement period. The higher than expected output of
fuelwood was too small to compensate for the shortfalls in roundwood. In
retr-ospect, the above assumption that in.the absence of the project forestry
operations   would  cease  by  1982  (or  scaled  down  gradually  as  under
alternative assumptions for the economic analysis) is not valid anymore
because of the considerable delays in the procurement of equipment and
vehicles. In reassessing the financial viability it was assumed therefore
that the production without project would continue at the SAR-assumed level
for 1981. With that assumption the financial rate of return at completion is
negative; the economic rate of return is estimated at about 27% which
reflects the large differences in financial and economic wood prices (see
Table 1 of Attachment 3).



- 7-
7. Proiect Sustainabilitv
21.      Sustained  benefits from project actions can be expected only about
half way thrQugh the economic life of the project because it was only during
the latter part of the disbursement period that there was a slow acceptance
by the MOF staff of the importance of management plans, two samples of which
had been prepared in the mid-seventies as guidelines. These plans take into
account, at'ong other variables, shorter rotation ages, new silvicultural
criteria, development of plantations and their management, a combination of
harvesting systems, interaction of villagers with the forest, erosion
control as well as range management and protection of the forest ecosystems.
These plans will allow an increased harvest of between one-third and one-
half the present cut, providing a determined effort is made to construct
roads into the presently inaccessible remaining high forest areas which
would allow the increased cut under the improved management plans. The
Impressive gains with plantation establishment should continue provided
enthusiasm is not dampened by a reduction of funds and managerial direction.
A start has been made in the understanding of interaction with the village
communities,   but   continued   efforts  are  required  to  assure  village
cooperation.
8. Bank Performance
22.      The momentum the Bank had displayed during the early stages of  the
project cycle wps not maintained during implementation. The im)rovement of
forest management planning was one of the principal objectives of the
project, yet the Bank did not place sufficient emphasis on policy changes
through  the  project.  In  1982,  when  Government  revised  the   physical
implementation targets, the Bank missed an opportunity to reformulate the
project. In the same year, when aerial photographs became available, a
chance was missed to verify the resource base although it was known that the
original surveys had been made between 1962 and 1972. At this time the
Turkish foresters had little experience of inventory work and in their own
words were 'feeling their way". The forest type classification included no
category of unmanageable high fore$ts although it was later realized that
considerable areas of high forest would have to be reclassified as
.protection" forest.
23.      The  potential  for  increasing  production  from  the  forests  by
intensifying the current network of forest access roads, by adopting more
modern extraction systems (cableways) and reforestation with fast growing
species had. been highlighted by earlier UNDP-financed studies.- Since there
were indications that Government was receptive to adoption of these new
techniques (the Bank had already played a role in introducing these
techniques in South Turkey through the Akderiz project), it was felt within
the Bank that there was obviously scope for further assistance to Government
in adopting more productive forest management systems in the north of the
country. Through an identification mission in April 1977 the Bank assisted
Government in dafining the scope of the project and making arrangements for
its further preparation. By joining part-time the FAO-CP preparation mission
of  June  1978,   the  Bank showed its continued interest in the project and
their report was issued as Preparation/Preappraisal Report. The appraisal
mission   in   September  of  that  year  endorsed  project  objectives  and
components. The implementation period was extended from five to seven years.
but the earlier estimates on wood resources in the project area and the
physical implementation targets  set  earlier  in  the  project  cycle  were
accepted.  The  only  major  issues that were discussed in the Bank prior to
finalization of the SAR were (i) the need to strengthen MOF's Forest Project
Monitoring Unit (FPMU) and (ii) the financing and budgetary implications
from the Bank's point of view.



-8-
24.      Through periodic  supervision  missions  the  Bank  was  kept  well
informed about the shortcomings in project implementation. The major issues
were repeatedly highlighted but the resolutio.Q of key problems was left to
the fulfilment of Government promises with unfortunately little action being
taken on solutions suggested by the Bank or consultants. Disbursement, which
had been almost entirely dependent upon equipment procurement, continued to
lag behind SAR forecasts throughout the project. The USS 86 million loan had
been approved in June 1978, with 31 March 1986 Closing Date, yet by 31
December 1982 actual disbursement was USS 32.1 million compared with the SAR
figure of USS 57.9 million. As of 31 July 1985, only about USS 43.5 million
had been disbursed. Following Government request that funds under the loan
be made available for the financing of spare parts for existing machinery to
be used for purposes of the project, the Bank agreed that an amount not
exceedinJ US$ 6 million may be utilized for the financing of such spare
parts the para 2(a) of the Loan Agreement was revised accordingly.
25.      Drawing on the experience gained from the project, it would seem in
retrospect that policy changes required were too important as that they
could have been achieved through a single project, or, more specifically.
through the provision of foreign exchange for the purchase of vehicles and
equipment for an amount less than 10% of project costs. A focus on two or
three representative areas and to have solved the critical silvicultural and
forest management problems before embarking on an ambitious project covering
10 million hectares of forest land would have shown more satisfactory
results. The support of a Government programme and project implementation
through the existing Government structure has many advantdges. A clear
distinction between project and ongoing Government programme, however. may
become quite difficult, particularly if the field staff is not in the
position to differentiate between project and non-project activities. More
account s4ould have been taken of the deeply rooted objections on the part
of the forett villagers to any interference with what they regard as their
inviolable rights. The idea of establishing a strong monitoring unit for
this type of forest was well accepted by the Bank but it should have been
pursued more vigorously. The dual role that the Bank required FPMU to play,
namely liaison with the Bank on behalf of the Ministry and strict monitoring
to   provide  executing  management  with  analytical  data  may  have  been
incompatible. Located in the Ministry until 1984 it could do the first but
not the second. In 1985, a Bank review mission noted the many
technical flaws in project design referred to elsewhere in this
report. However, it was decided to complete the procurement of
project equipment since replacing over-aged equipment had high
economic benefit, even without the other technological
improvements envisaged under the project. The mission also
recommended that improvements in forest methodology be first
tested on a pilot scale before trying to introduce them on the
scale attempted under this project. The suggestion for such a
pilot operation was not taken up by the Government.
9. Borrower Performance
26.        It seems that OGM has never been 'eally convinced that
the northern forests could support the annual allowable cut (AAC)
recommended at preparation and appraisal. However, in order to
obtain the foreign exchange to purchase equipment for road
construction and logging, OGM did not raise objections during
project formulation to the proposed increases in the AAC nor to
the proposed improvements in forest management and silvicultural
practices. A lack of commitment on the part of OGM throughout



implementation is exemplified by the fact that hardly any
measures have been taken to t.nd solutions to the beech/spruce
regeneration problem. The unwillingness to change forest
management practices through a combination of increasing
clearfelling and artificial regeneration (in overmature areas
where natural regeneration is unsuccessful) and reducing
selection felling and natural regeneration to those areas where
natural regeneration can be successful, resulted from the
unresolved regeneration problem (natural or artificial) and
reaction to forest villagers concern over loss of employment in
the face of less than buoyant demand for logs. The SAR's
overoptimistic estimates of forest resources and inadequate
appreciation of the technical problems involved reinforced the
overly cautious attitude to change shown by the foresters. Lack
of collaboration between field staff and the Borrower's own
Research Institute also contributed to reluctance to change.
Meanwhile, the current practice, a combination of "bakim"
thinning and natural regeneration, is believed to slowly destroy
the country's forest estate. If the project had been properly
implemented, it could have at least provided some direction as to
the means of containing this destruction, but the opportunity was
lost through the default of the concerned authorities.



- 10 -
27.      Project  management  suffered  from FPMU's poor performance and its
inability to undertake effectively the functions for which it was created.
Most cri*ical of all was its failure to establish a monitoring and
evaluati.  system so essential for providing the  raw  data  needed  by  the
management to take decisions and introduce the change expected to come about
as a result of project actions. The SAR called for consultants being taken
on from the beginning of the project but the first consultant was not
engaged until early 1983. By the end of the project only 38 man-months of
consultancy had been achieved out of a planr.ed 144 man-months. The first
fellowship took place three years after start-up, a disappointing record
considering that at time of negotiations these inputs were believed to be
vital to the success of the project.   Problems  to  project  implementation
were   also  posed  by  procurement  issues  largely  because  OGM  was  not
organizationally equipped to handle procurement in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines and often selected equipment whose high price could not be
justified. As a result, not only the type and quantities of equipment
purchased was different from what was foreseen during appraisal but also the
phasing of purchases and the source of finance utilized. Less loan funds
were used to procure SAR equipment and the "savings" were used to import
items such as trucks and other vehicles which, according to the SAR, were to
be purchased with Government funds on the local market (see Attachments 1
and 2).
28.      The seeming lack  of  coordi-nation  between  OGM,  and  the  forest
village communities made it very difficult to establish a fully integrated
approach to developing the forestry. and forest industries sector along
lines mutually beneficial to the parties concerned, and to the country as a
whole. For example, it appears that inability to regulate grazing was having
a detrimental effect on the regeneration of beech and spruce and in the same
areas animosity between villages competing for resources made it difficult
for territorial staff to enter their forests. There is also room for much
closer coordination between the research wing and territorial staff. For
example, although altitude research trials of Sitka spruce, Douglas fir and
Pinus contorta have been undertaken in Macka Isletme for almost 20 years,
none of the successful species have been introduced on a field trial basis.
Mechanisms for transfer of successful research findings to the territorial
foresters should be devised and stronger links established with both the
Ankara Forestry Research Institute and appropriate Isletmes that would
benefit from these findings.
10. Proiect Relationshig
29.      Almost  two  decades  after  the  Bank first became involved in the
forestry sector and after  substantial            investment,  OGM  still  seems
somewhat reluctant to modernize its approach to forest management and
silvicultural practices and thereby improve the production of industrial
roundwood. The reasons for this reluctance include: (i) conservatism of
Turkey's present forest policy makers; (ii) a notion that clearfelling. even
if   it   is   done  in  small  blocks  and  planted  up  straight  away  is
environmentally undesirable; (iii) a view that as the cost of natural
regeneration   is   minimal  compared  to  artificial  regeneration.  it  is
financially preferable even though it may take years to achieve: and (iv)
limited financial control from the Treasury or policy guidance from SPO
because 95% of OGM's budgeting requirements comes from its own revolving and
annex budgets derived from sales of timber or other produce from the forest
estate.



- 11 -
il. Consulting Services
30.      The SAR called for consultants to be employed by the eno
of 1978. The fact that the first consultant arrived only in
early 1983 was due largely to a lack of qualified Englisn
speaking counterparts during the early project years and a
reluctance on the part of the Turkish foresters to use foreign
expertise.   Because  of  their late  arrival,  the  consultants'
impact  on  the project  was  limited.   The  performance  of the
contractors and the quality of their work can be rated as quite
satisfactory.
12. Project Documentation and Data
31.      Most of the covenants agreed at negotiations have not
been fully complied with (see Part III, 7). Annual work programs
were rarely sent to the Bank as required. Audit reports were
often submitted late, but with one exception the auditor's
opinion was clean and unqualified.
32.      The SAR provided a useful framework for the Bank as it
contained the phasing of physical development targets by year,
the type and phasing of vehicle and equipment purchases by number
of unit%, and an estimated schedule of disbursements. These key
tables were used as benchmarks during the supervision phase.
Most relevant to the Borrower were the annual targets of project
works. A breakdown of these targets by sub-areas would have been
of help.
33.      rhe data relevant for the preparation of the PCR were
not readily available. Most of them were incomplete or could not
be traced at all, largely because of organizational changes
during project implementation. To avoid this situation in future
projects, the Borrower should be provided with forms specifying
the type of data required and ageeement should be sought at
negotiations as to who would be responsible for their collection
on a regular basis throughout the life of the project.
13. Summary and Conclusions
34.      The project did not fully meet its objectives and
targets for several reasons, including: (a) unrealistically
optimistic assumptions relating to production targets,
availability of management skills, adoption of new technology and
project scope; (b) delay in procurement of machinery and
equipment which were critical to implementation of project
targets; (c) inadequate consideration of socioeconomic and
geographical distribution of forest villages as well as difficult
terrain in project design; and (d) insufficient critical path
planning between staff training and equipment procurement
(project input) on one hand and implementation of project targets
(project output) on the other. These design problems were
compounded by an unfavorable macroeconomic climate which



- 12 -
persisted durirg the entire period of project implementation.
In addition, there appears never to have been a full meeting of
minds between Forestry Department officials and the Bank on the
desirability of the project's proposed changes in forestry
practices. Forestry is an important resource for Turkey and
efforts to modernize methods employed continue to have nigh
priority in order to allow for increased productivity without
depleting the growing stock or endangering the environment.
However, the development and testing of improved methods should
proceed on a pilot scale before efforts are made to introduce
them on a broader basis.
35.      While the project did not achieve its intended and
rather ambitious objectives of increasing forest production and
improving forestry methods, it still had a number of benefits
which made the investment worthwhile. By replacing over-aged
equipment, the project prevented a sharp drop in production which
would have occurred without this action. Another significant
positive result is the institutionalization of management plans
for annual forestry operations. Afforestation far exceeded the
SAR estimates and the results, particularly in the pine growing
regions, are impressive. In fact Turkey is ahead of many other
Mediterranean countries in its mechanical afforestation
techniques. rhe fire protection program has also gone very well.
Fuelwood production over the 1979-1987 period exceeded SAR
estimates by over 11 million steres. The 27% economic rate of
return for the project, while substantially less than projected,
is still respectable and reflects the inherent profitability of
Turkish wood production even with current technology. Judged
against such standards, the project should not be considered a
total failure, even though the more ambitious production and
technical objectives were not achieved.



- 13 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The "Final Report of Turkey Northern Forest Project
(Loan 15B5 Tu)" prepared by the Government was submitted to the
Bank in July 1988. A copy is attached.



- 15 -
INTRODUCTION
Turkey Northern Forest Project (loan 1585 Tu) has been financed by Word Bank.
O,.ir Government decided to establish SEKA Newsprint-timber integreted factory
in Balikesir according to results of pre-studies forest resources w'hich has been made
for Marmai& and lWestern Black Sea Region with collaburation FAO-GeneralDirectorate
of Forestry in September-1973.
For supplying the required raw-material possibilities the decidion has been
made -s tc, take an action for finding out the potential forest resources at 15 Forest
Concervancv areas in Egean-Marmara-Black sea region as a result of the meetings held
by participation of United Nations Development Programme, FAO and General Directorate
of Forestry members under the coordination of SEate plarniing Organisation.
The necessary feasibility study has been completed at the beginning of 1976.
The Proiect has been started in 1979) accord4ng to the signed loan contract
w-ith the liord Bank at the end of 1978 for providing the required foreign finance.
1-PROJECT OBJECTIVES
- To defermine the existing and future potential wood supply
- To prepare an analvsis of the wood supply in industrial use categories
- To indicate the cost of developing the forest resources and of the wood
availabitv for industrial use
- To maximize regional contributions to the national dem.ani for forest products,
exclude necessary consuming
- To increase round wood production in the currently under utilized forests
- To rea!ise management plan revisions on 5 million ha. of these forests.
- To develop appropriate forest management principles and parameters for the
optimum development of the forest rrsourcej.
- To detenmine requirements and forest resources development practices in respect
to watershe.a protection, erosion control, recreation and tourism development.
- To determine, enlargement types of fcrest areas through aforestation and assess
necessary requirements and posibilities
- To determine forest protection meaures requiired to minimi7- lasses
- To determine the impact of the forest development on emolavement and its
significant contrib;'-



- 16 -
- To provide additional raw material to founda-tions including private sector,
ORtS, SEKA and to help meet denand elsewvere in Turkey
- To create additional emplaysment.
2-INTRODUCE OF PROJECT
Productive Forest Area                     : 4.930.000 Ha.
Unproductive Forest Area                   : 5.570.000 Ha.
Total Forest Area                          : 10.500.000 Ha.
Forest Conceevancies in the project          izmir, Balikesir, ganakkale,
Area                                         Bursa,istanbul, Adapazari,
Eski.7ehir, Bolu,Zonguldak,
Kastamonu,Amasya ,Giresun,Trabzon,
Artvin,Erzurum,
r
Foundation given credit                      World Bank
Amount of credit                             86.000.000 US $
Interest                                     X 7,5
Duration of without paid                     4 Years
edgining -Finishing date of Credit           30.9.1978-30.3.1986
(It was extended by the 31.12.196)
Internal money                               TL. equivalent to 822.5 milyon
Us $
Total project cost (Internal + Credit)       908,5 Milyon US $
Amount of Credit expenditure (By the
end of 1986)
1btal  exponditure                          85.200.091,04 US $
Reman&er from credit                          799.908,96 us $
3-PROJEC ORGANIZXEION
Procet Pmplantations was being traced by the Would Bank until March 1984
through Forest.Planning and Monitoring unit was established as an ndependent unit
according to dated 1978 loan agreement.
This unit was closed in 1984 March and its duties has been handed over to
Resarch, Planng and Coordination Department's.



- 17 -
That's why, administration of project has been started to be carried out
by Research Planning and Coordination Department in accordance with principles of
our General Directorate.
This position accelerated a lot of works for the project between departments
and the other orgamnzations. As a result of this new position the brocracy was
reduced and relations between our General Directorate and World Bank have been
regulated more than before.
It was also written by the World Bank that after 1984 March the project
organization reached at succesfull levels.
4-IMPORTANT FOREST TARGETS .4ND ACHIEVENENTS OF THE PROJECT
Project targets and achievements are shown in attached. Tabla 1 and graphs.
5-APPRECtATtON OF THE PROJECT
As it can be understood by examining the important targets and the
achievements of tables, in some of the main forestry activities such as industrial
wood production, regenerAtion,renewing management plans, road construction, the
project targets can not be achieved.
The important targets and bottlenecks for the necessity of project revising
are being explained below.
5.1-INDUSTRIAL WOOD PRODUCTION
Annual allowable cut is being calculated by General Directorate of Forestry
based on findings of existing forest management plans.
Existing forest management plans show 11.671.931 cubic meter of annual
&slowable cut. In our country we always facing different figures between plan
indications and achievements in practice. Plan indications can only be achieved if
forests are protected against all destructive factors and we are able to practice
technical forestry operations required.Since we are facing the factors hampering
the practice required, such as, social factors, limited transportation, technical
unabilities, production of seedling needed etc, and illegal utilization of the
forest resources. As a result it is found very difficult to achieve management plan
targets.



- 18 -
5.1.1-IH MAIN FACTORS PREVENTING OF PROJECT TARGETS IN INDUSTRIAL WOOD
PRODWCTION
a) Exlusion of some forest areas from production in soe Conservancies
because of out dated management plans and revision of management plans were not
completed at required dates for those areas, and secondy, project targets which
require, completion of management plans revision of autdated plans by 1985, could
only be achieved by 25 Z of total.
b) Because of the delays in delivering road machines and equipmient cocused
unconstructing of necessary roads resulted unexploitation of forests.
c) Public disputes in some project areas
d) Delay in procurement of production equipment needed for the extraction
of wood in difficult texalne and in arcas where labor shortage is a problem.
e) Constraints in achieving annual allowable cut in project areas.
- 20 % of annual allowable cut as thinning and final feelling has turned
out for the areas to be reserved as protection fcTest and for the areas where
road coustruction were physichly inpossible
- 7 % of annual allowable cut has been calculated for scattered regeneration
areas.
- 3 % of annual allowable cut has been calculated for the areas where
land owner-ship disputes are exist.
- 6 Z of annual allowable cut has been leot because of illegal cutting,
fire damage and encrochments. As a result we can say that total of 36 % of annual
allowable cut is practically not availlable
- Lack of possibilities to get wood from the area where natural regeneration
of beech failed, until availability of seedlings for artificial regeneration
- New management plans show about 25 % reduction in annual allowable cut.
5.2- REGENERAIION ACTIVITIES
According to management plans for the project area annual average
regeneration area for productive forest is 23.500 Ha. But this figure is 90.000
Ha. in the project.
5.2.1-REASONS PREVENTING ACfEEVEMENTS OF THE PROJECT TARGETS FOR NATURAL AMD
ARTIFICIAL RECENERATION
a) The project targets were higher,the management plan targets have to be



- 19 -
applied. The project targets prepared by foreign experts did not influenced the
realistic values.
b) The project targets have been prepared by taking into consideration of
forest values but infact the targets should be planned according to the low incamed
forest villagers pressures on the forest and regeneration areas. The socio-economii
structure and the distribution of the human settlement should have to be considered.
c) Because of the seedling shortages the artificial regeneration activities
could not be reached to the given targets especially in Fagus and Picea forest of
about 80-100 thousand  hectares with 0,1-0,4 canopy classes.
d) Regenerated areas must be well protected. Unfortunatelly because of the high
social presures from the forest villagers it was not possible to work on big
regenation areas.
e) In the project the regeneration of productive forest are given as 80 %
artificial and 20 % natural. This was not appropriate with management plan .figures.
5.3-FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN REVISIONS
Project target for plan revision indicates that forest management plans for
the project area should be completed by 1985.
5.3.1-REASONS PREVENTING ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT TARGET IN MANAGEMENT PLANS
PREPERATION :
In order to prepare management plans in time and with required precision
first requirement is the provision of aereal photos in required quality and quantity
each year. As to be known the areal photos are provided From General Commandery
of Mapping. For the years of 1979, 1980 and 1981 we were not provided with aereal
photos for the project areas, owing to various difficulties have been faced in areal
photogiaphy. For Trabzon and Artvin Conservancies it took us two years,1982 and
1983 to get aereal photos. And management plans preparation for these conservancies
took us two years, 1983 and 1984 as well. In 1984 we were only be able to get aereal
photos for Bolu, Giresun and Zonguldak conservancies management plans preperation
for these areas could be completed in 1986.
Botlenecks in both aereal photography and number of Personnel Caused to
dictate annual work programs.



- 20 -
b) Forest total area in project region is 10.582.743 Ha. If we asme that one
management crew is able to prepare management plans for average area of 35.000 to
40.000 Ha. annually than we should have had 55 management crews in order to
complete management plans in 5 years.
5.4-ROAD CONSTRUCTION
5.4.1-REASONS PREVENTING ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT ANNUAL TARGETS IN ROAD
CONSTRUCTION ARE SET OUT BELOW
a) Insufficient resources
b) Insufficient machine park at the begining of the project and delays in
equipment and spare parts procurements caused delays of putting in action of
required number of machines during this period.
c) low productivity in road coustruction caused by scattered felling areas
dictated by management plans which do not permit team work.
d) Supply difficulties caused by scattered and remote work sites from residential
centers.
e) Work time limitation caused by high elevation and difficult rocky terrain
f) Difficulties of getting nattral stabilization material supply in forest
areas and lack of rock crushere to produce stabilization material caused reduction
in stabilization program.
g) Road stabilization is mainly planned for beech forest where frequent land
slides occur which damage existing drainage structures since these structures had
to be renewed, resulted in low productivity in both new road construction and road
stabilization.
6- REASONS FOR PROPOSED REVISED TARGETS IN 1982
A report dated 21 Nov.1981 explaning the reasons for proposed in 1982 had
been already sent to the Bank. We now summarize the reasons below.
6.1-REASONS FOR PROPOSED PRODUCTION TARGETS ARE SET OUT BELOW
a) Inventory work were not carried out in order to calculate annual allowable
cut during project preparetion in project forest areas.
b) In annual allowable cut calculation lineer programing were employed
considering increment of existing afforestation and future afforestation and
regeneration and proceeds to calculate annual felling area for regeneration as



- 21 -
soon as possible in the forest which were assumed mostly old aged.
c) Project assumes 90 % of the yield will be taken as final cut. This will
result in reduction of existing stocks at higer rate if new forest can not be
created.
d) Even the assumption under wider spacing in plantations, heavy thining,
pruning and fertilization which seem impossible to practice in the near future do
not accepted to be realistic.
e) Project target for production is based on the assumption at almost all old
forest and over rotation period so they should be artificialy regenerated in 50
years by fast growing species. According to this assumption annual average of
90.000 Ha. Should be clear cut and planted. Project assumes to reach the industrial
wood production target calculated by those cutting amounts.
6.2-REASONS FOR PROPOSED REVISED TARGETS IN REGENERATION
a) It is an obligation to follow management plan recomendations.
b) Seedling production promlems for species and provenances in quality and
quantity have been considered.
c) Regeneration areas have been determined, by taking in to consideration of
soil texture and site quality classes
d) An effective and continous protection reqirements have been considered.
Social and economic situation of forest villagers have been considered
e) Rich seed years for natural regeneration have been considered.
6.3-REASONS FOR PROPOSED REVISED TARGETS IN MANAGEMENT PLANS REVISION
When we revised the target for plans in 1982 we had in mind that in order
to complete existing shortfalls at that time we would need 50 management crews
and necessary areal photes then it is decided to complete the shortfalls during
the years 1985, 1986 and 1987.
6.4-REASONS FOR PROPOSED REVISED TARGETS IN ROAD CONSTRUCTIONS
a) It is assumed that since mechanization in production was to increase we
can give up coustructing some slope roads
b) Project assumption was to construct road to the scattered areas with lower
stocking. This did not seem reasonable to us
c) We assumed that we could give up some road stabilization since there were
or of similiar nature.



- 22 -
7- STEPS WHICH WERE TAKEN TO TRY TO RESOLVR THE DIFFICULTIES ENCOTERED
AND COMMENTS ON HOW SUCCESSFUL TDSWE STEPS HAVE BEEN:
Thining in young forest estalished by plantation and regenerations are
getting higher attention. As a result of these activities, production of chip wood
are increasing if compare to past years with 1986,
It is possible to show on a brief table as follows;
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983    1984    1985    1986
Chip Wood
Production(M3)121.292 131.417 226.082 532.830 589.950 516.750 610.952 53P.300
Activities for improvements of degraded coppices and renewal of producti-
on coppices has been accelerated. We eypected this way to save some industrial woood
from high forests which were used for fire wood.
Procurement of production equipment has helped to extract wood from
difficult sites. Remainders of old production which were of the road side and in
the valley has been appreciated. Training is continueing for the ftl1 use of pro-
uction equipment.
A new nursery of 25 Ha. set up in Trabzon region in order to supply
seedlings required for spruce artificial regeneration which was a major problem.
This nursery has been designed to produce about 8 to 10 million seedling annually.
In addition, a cool house has been set up in Adapazarl Hendek forest
nursery for seed storage at lower temperatures to be used for natural regeneration
on the other hand annually, 2,5 million beach seedlings have been produced in
Nursery of Ddzce-Gflkaya in Bolu (ionservancies in order to increase seedlings pro-
duct. 1.
Working has been continueing to increase sufficient level of seedlings
production in different forest tree species.
General Directorate of Forestry has started to increase the number of
management crews since 1979. It is obvious that to increase management crews there
are some requirements of experienced personnel. Annual budgets provide satisfactory
funds to achieve investment program and procure required equipment. If we compare
the 1979 capacity for making management plans with today it is clear it has been
increased about 2,5-3 times. Further measures for improvement of management plans
are being taken.



- 23 -
8- THE OIHER SUEJECTS AB(XT PROJECT
8.1- EDUCATION
The training of the tecnical staff involved in the project was completed
abroad. The trairning program was very beneficial to the staffs. The staffs who know
foreign language and are specialized in various fields of forestry were trained.
8.2- CONSULTANCY :
The specialists who were required by the Department of General Directorate
of forestry were employed according to loan agreement. Consultancy subject concerning
with the project was realized considering our needs as well. It can't be able to
say something about the specialists was usefull for us altough it was paid monthly
over 5.000 US $
8.3- YIELD RESEARCHS:
In Northern Turkey Forestry Project activities,under the coordination of
R.P.C Department and under the technical supervision of Forestry Research Institute
at Pinus nigra and Pinus silvestris forests some measurements and observations were
carried out for the aim of preparing yield tables.
For Pinus niFra; tzmir, ganakkale, Bursa,Eskisehir,Adapazarl,Kastamonu,
Giresun,Amasya and longuldak, For Pinus, silvestris; Bursa Eskisehir, Bolu,Zonguldak,
Kastamonu,Giresun,Trabzon and Erzurum conservancies were selected as pilot areas.
These activities were evaluated and completed by Forestry Research Institute
9. CONCLUStON
Project was started in 1979.
The project was under the responsibility of Forest Planning and Monitoring
Unit Sifice March 1984.
The monitoring unit established out of the General Directorate of Forestry
caused sq   problems in credit using and delays of achiving given targets(procure-
.nent, training etc) from the begining of project.
Credit using amounts are as follows;
1979    1980    1081    1982    1983    1984      1985     1986
US $   US $    US s    US $    US$    US $        US $    US $
11532252 -173M29 363740 9966674  5742993  JZJ646  20675536 85mn9JfY



- 24 -
As it can be understood from the given table above annual credit using
percentage between 1979-1983 in 8,8 2 and 1984-1985 is 12,8 Z.
The transfering of project monitoring unit to OGM is resulted effectiveness
in project implementations. For example the procurement programmes and credit using
achievement are speeded up and training of technical stpff in abroad are nearly comp-
leted.
As a result of provided benefits and gained expreinces of the project the
following evaluation can be;
Provided benefits
a) The settling of Project idea.
b) By the achievement of training programmes new experts were trained and
experienced in project activities and abroad resulted of increased technical activi-
ties in TUrkish forestry and succesful implementation and evaluation of any kind of
externally financed projects.
c) Unksuccesful achievement of some targets shows the deficiencies of the
TUrkish forestry and forest institutions.
d) Setting up important establishments such as nurseries.
Gained experiences
a) The essential need of participating Turkish forest technicians in project
planning activities. The project preparing by only foreign experts proves that those
projects did not influence the country truths.
b) In employing of foreign experts, without of counterpart personnel the
expert can not work beneficialy. The need of employing foreign experts in required
subjects.
c) It is understood that the project implementation in large areas (10,5
million Ha) without adequate number of experienced technical experts, a complicated
project-has no benefits, instead of this small scaled projects in specific subjects
are decided and accepted beneficial.
d) The problems can not be solved in time without a monitoring unit and
experienced technical personnel to be imployed in such projects.
e) The projects leader must be sellected very carefully and he has good
relations with the administration.



- 25 -
TLURKEY 14ORTd4RN i~O.A: TA Y ilRoJ.4T
liew Road Construction
3_.
t;.2      l90     191     172      1S      1X79:           15
2~~~2rtO-R::                E -  .C-In_7;I



- 26 -
TUIRKEY N4ORTHERNd FORETRY i-ROJECT
Road Upgrad3ng
1~~~~~~'~ ~
'4                                              ee   N ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 *  .4
0.4 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I/.                   4,4\%
0.1 -                        .4.         .       p.41.~
4.%*    '4.4  4...    *~~*4    4..
.4/4   1 l      1.402        4.%14        4       195        1 0
/4    /\        /          /.4        /44Y        4         .4.
./\4 PROGR4\                    ACH/44%    ..4%% 4T



- 27 -
TURKEY FiORTHER14 FOREvvRY PROJECT
Road SAabil.zation
El~~e                             elGG L  AniE;E



-28 -
TUiRKEY NtORMADN P'OkRS.STRY PRO)JECT
Rostd Malntenance
so -_
s.  !  n ' u 0 0 lo 
194090            ,Ht    lEX     1R       RE.     9S      10
E-4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~RR
CA~ ~~~E   RORA                    E                     T.IYliE7



-29 -
TURKEY IiORwTHZRr FOR,-':TRY lRO,.ECT
Industrial 'food
e _                 0       0               |      v    A/~~~~~e 
l99'T 7Il 18                  19       CZ    95      1J
E-4                                77~~~~~YAR
2 z] PROGRAlii  [   ACHIEV<LEJiT~~~~~



-30-
TUMM1Y 1XORTkiAdQN FOU4SRY PROJiCT
FPuel 'good
16 
14   7                    77- 9% 
13                        V
7oN . 
EX                      A~~.  /
\%                                le /O 9%  .
1.        el~~~~~~~/9.   *                S
I  ~~   ~  ~    /\9%   J8  19"3    18            0   8
/~~~YAR
PROGRAIL    -  ACS.  i9%9' NT



- 31 -
TURKUY t)iiRiit S           , I AJSCT
liatural Regeneration (Site preparation)
74 -_
1 41
4 4
19-~~ .. .
;3 13N1   13E  ISO9;    1ga         15 I04    13aN      lgB6
7LA^RS
P, ROGRA1'       ED ;.-;V$;



- 32 -
T;IR.:;:.  t.WAZUSRN .Nfi.Y  RNECT
Arti?ical Fe,;erer..in  (Site  preparation)
1? -
,512   /                                    ,
11   q 'sl            I "I     I 8
Rz-jOGR;.:zA.'-_...... i;



- 33 -
TURKEY l;ORTHlRN FORESTRY PROJkiCT
Improvement Felling
24-
22 
20                                                   7
24 ~    9i 19D -91 1B               93 16          95     lB
12 -~~~/ 
/~~~~~~~d
14
12
a-
.~~~             / ..
.EA.RS
POG~AIw      ACHIEVELMEIT



- 34 -
TURKEY NORTHERN PORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Ualbtenanoo
10 0. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. %



- 35 -
TURKEY NORTHERN FORESTRY PROJEC*T
Forestation (Satablishment)
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _7
19t3  l980   l9a1   1982   1903   l984   19Bj   1986~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
C-4  40 - ~ ~     ~     YAR
E7] YROGR  Ej ACHIEVEXENT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%61



- 36 -
TURK(EY NORTHERN FORESTRY PROJECT
Porestation (Maintenace)
1fi0 ,.
Be1 j11Xl~~~~~~~~~~~7
l -       R1    91      18       981    1Ol    l9S     191
140 - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ E.R
22  } ROGRAll  E] ACHIE'ZtENT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.6



-37 -
TURKEY NORTHERN FORESTRY-PROJECT
Erosion Control (Establishmzent)
7. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~7
a-                                           r
4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4i
S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ER
PROGRAM   ACHIEVEMENT. 



- 38 -
iUPURZU   i:)RTplJ e*OR.SThY PRO3ECT
Ez'Oaion Control (biaLnj;na4ic.)
17 -
15
15
14 
A.~~~~~~~~~,\
I   9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 1
3 - ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ /\
1979  1980  161    1962   1*/         1941\'1 8
/~~~       'r7 .FS      
ACHm.11.,  IN



-39-
TfFYNO%-M=RI '01rSTRY  ?PfO!-CT
Rlang* ImProvement (Establishmuent)
1.4 - 
1.6                                        .e
C-4   ~~.. A% % 
Z                                                 /.        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~% N
I    *                                               .1
S... f* *. L,     J



- 40 -
TURXEY- NORTHERN POR?ZTRY PRojrCT
Rang, Improvement (L&aintenanoe)
J/~~~~~
,Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . -
eY'E' 01|022|1M. d~~~~~~~~~~~* 
13'9  1909  1901  1982  1993  1984  1985   1986
' ..*            /1
ar A F               /"
P"  GP .1  N-   ArH!     *!--



-41 -
TURKEY NORTIMERN FORE-STRY PRDJBCP
Uansement Plan Revilsior
2.4 -      _.
1979   lan     la 1980   19811a  B3    1984 1  985   19flu
;R A.RS
EUPROGRAL            ACHIVhtZNT



- 42 -
TURKEY
NORTHERN FORESTRY PRCJECT
Table -I-
OPLR6T1363                                         =8je    01 Lbtv.Umet0.6  I 6mev.Ovje   001-3                                   M ." l  jet 08g4ee6  008w   66=.".
gma            8m Set                           17OU  1a 2s  vg  a  3t~g        u      
1.41. 44" 66 @eatIWO                               KLa   8.4      .D   4.0Q1   3.100  3.004  149    30    La"   &.M              3.960   w.3     a.4s  a.61
4_M        KWa                                             "a    56 X  D.Ow                720    701    1.000    710    759   I.100  1.6O0        0o   "l
5-440  eabltession                                 a    2.000  1.30    4"    SAMW  1.770  1.040    4.0OD  1.693   1.47             4.000   .103  1.45   1.15)
4.46                                               Ka  44.6000  l0.100 316440   4*750 4T.34  40.171   10.700 49.144   8.331   54.300  W.OOD 5.04) a.165
5-leba44tl  6                                    MM   1.000   .66"   4.576        MOO 5   .616  4.540    6000  6.7    4.71         8.510   6.8-    $.270 M .06
&.o1  406                                        0006. 10.340  82.470 13.077   10.400  10.41  15.m       10.400  1.608  .N310   10.500  13.310 11.30) 1.071
741tb*MS *' sinweuaaf Snte )tPWS?I0)               fin  13.000  361 e.034   14.000 17.100  S.V04   15.00  10.000  9.060   16.000   .0 S           6.OO    172    .6
N.Ar.titt1 3 minlusb 00   7.000 1064   12.360   41.000  160.0"  6.06    43.010 13.450 11."7    46.010  1A.0W0 10.520  5.36
9.upivemu"t Posts*  MCn4a-oe lt.loamet)            *1    -       .600  1.?         -    3.410    707       -      2.43   1.390             -      1 .650   3.608
i0.eue.t                                           li   49.000 63.340  46.M7   6101   73.91v 52.50S   64.01D  73.250 61.7         72.n00 106.700 79.000 67.679
U.I,ststSoa                                         8*   20.000 35.506 10.716   22.000  7.3  13.297   14.031  43.50 %C .6    24.003  84.00  41.342  33.54?
1F34 bttea (latP) s1 123.60o P4.16  72.409  170.0M  3*.962 .e.e'   211.0"  n9.7  MM.61    261.000  74.09 s98.C?7  94.516
1l..abu 0t1au1                                      ma   6.000  2.SD   2.054    6.000  1.60   1.539    1.000  2.400    069    6.000  3.0oo  2.400   R.1s9
314ea1aa CeealtLejinDaa)                            He  14.000  1.350  4.661   19.000  4.*3   34.06    24.000  6.09)  6.538   36.000  7.00   6.053   S.V?
15.. tpovmat                                        Its   3.00W  I.S00  1.360    9.000  U.V,        85.    9.000  1.00    640   10.0W0  1.100  1.250    2n
16-bug  1mervemsatt1.a1ateaaaee)                    Mm   7.000  6.000    370   11.000  1.3W*  1.40   10.000   3.092  19            25.000  N.M00   3.400    IO0
17maemAf"S tul  _.wu4m                _00*1                 *    2.200    363       -      2.24i    )43            1.u5 6L14          _             1.610  1.219
1IS3.                              %904                         16"                          319366                      *03                           - 
Aegis"              A I *sV- fetrojt 1091269      O.    Pv*,"*e 36,1804   AAV oa    ^              rV0446- frjt kteed   0160   ale-  7045  6240    19-6    79.06
4.53   3.40   2.024  8.046   4.53   USO0   2.03  4 .137    j.320  2.600  1.045   1.426            -     .600   1.3)   Jn7       2.300   12.400  1T2.1   14.663
1.30    LWO      no      63?   1.100   .100    710  6a"        1.100  1.100    1n D      13             1        767   435      T.810W  1.4D   5.617 T       53
4.3    63.0    1.400  1.054   4.000    50    1.460 1M          4.000  2.600  1L46       64        *   h.700       5    66      4.000  I8.10    11.153    6.116
,&M   18300 53.107  46.50    60650  14.700 5.345 46.741   64.00   7.200    .M7    M                    9.00   49.339 ..268    WOODe  MA.   411#461  32.
M       .10   "0    4.30    9.50   1.270  4.961  464   1.D0  7-n.670  4.7    4.509               -    640   4.93 4.4T    59.100  36.30   4.114  3A."?
tDg   SUM   1.8? 14.06   10.600 IRA"60  MM  103L1   10.70t   1.t          0 11.61)   1.U  t           U1?OO  u1.660 7.h722    73.4    6610   91.65    96.11U
0.1   UAW  14.16   U.366  17.00  13.30  MM  9.715   1.0 14.93  14.15   1.1                        -  17.000  14.60 11.96?   1w0.000  6.W 15.401    6.934
9eD0m   1u13     s.en   ^026  5 o 1.JOD   1.310 7.723   15.00  15.000  7.664    6.335                 16.800   1.40  6.8    383.000  66.00    o03?  713.00
*       *     5.455   7.43     -       - l   14.9901847               -    19.031  16.190        -            s u" 16.0*6                       ? 3      59.34
74.00 U11.1   70.5   74.921   MOOD 133.400 UJ-    5 03.3   76.000 1o0.000 91.63?    .591          . 166600   n764 6u93    4TLODD 6.5    69.1    mou
.O   30   41.190  48.04             0  230.000 19.42046        50 U D 9A 0 00O 62.045   SUM        -  29.000  61.0 54.49    174.00       0 1)7.006  3 155  M406
s%M   e.00 11.364 130.194 317.000 94.000 18.645   30   330.000                  126.100  139.004      ,) 11.000 1U6.3W9 IS5611 1.1n     4o0.000 s0.t5   e02.4
.u0   M0    4.15   2.69?  1o.0   3.00   4.660 3.191   UAW06   3.060  6.750   6.464               - L    .00   5.100 4.591    1.Oo 1.5.00   29.945   24.34
.060o   600  16.500 13.34u   3s.00o  9.000  6.5 t.39n    0.0oe   9.000  9.000   6.4               -   9A        6.c00 6.690   8200o0  42.0    66.651   SS.ns
.0o  1SO   10ao   1.135  11.060  1.              S00   11O    11.000  1.100  2.150   1.U          *   1.5s0    Lse0  1.000    64e0e   7100  12.300    6.563
m0oos   310   40    .614  41.000  3.500  6.750 1.33U    S0000  35OO  2.900    LOi0t                    3.M500   4.300 1.251   109.00  17.100  33.048   10.032
1.989   1.214    -             L 1.600 1.*60                  2.05?      92?                    1. 415    41      -       -      14.744    7.141
l-4rojett T7rer . ha,. be. taken from _AtP report sud rerx:vJ twpetc fren t   doted 19t2 rev" 4 report.
2-M0  promus .*6d achlevemnta hbe  be.9, t3  n from  .* i'.partbunto.
3-Arbevesnt of fuel Io  we  totol of 5reludLz*  cuttut u 4 tra.orttozt               a exclud4iq  culttsr" end tr wipwtftltoa.
4-eorastl7 mlntens   an total * r 'utural reoenermtonU a..- srtiic               ger            6a0 rhich O"e Include tendian  of 1013e
rWrorntIO    and thialag.
S-f,ojoct tarves awe for 197O-19m  yea",   revised  taets  ae for 1"2-197  eer.



- 43 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan/Title                  Puroose      Aonroval      Status      Comments
1. Ardeniz Forest           Antalya        1974        Closed )  Satisfactory as
Utilization Project    Forestry                             )  far as the
(Loan 957-TU)                                               )  industrial
) elements were
2. Balikesir Newsprint    Newsprint        1976        Closed )  concerned, but
Project                                                     )  less success-
(Loan No. 1258-TU)                                          )  fully for the
) forestry com-
) ponent of the
) Antalya project.
2. Project Timetable
iiezm                        Plied              Revised            Actual
Reconnaissance                     n.a.              n.a.            Nov., 1976
Identification                    n.a.               n.a.           April, 1977
Preparation/Preappraisal           n.a.              n.a.          Jun/Jul., 1977
Appraisal                          n.a.              n.a.           Sep/Oct., 1977
Loan Negotiations                  n.a.              n.a             May,   1978
Board Approval                June 1,  1978           -            June 1, 1978
Loan Signature                     n.a.                            June 5, 1978
Loan Effectiveness            Sep. 4.  1978    Oct. 30, 1978    Oct. 30, 1978
Loan Closing                  Mar. 31, 1986    Dec. 31, 1986    June 30, 1987 1/
June 30, 1987
Project Completion            Sep. 30, 1985
1/ To accommodate final disbursements, the loan accounts were kept open
until March 31, 1988.



- 44 -
Comments: (Issues Raised at Each Stage of Project Cycle)
Identification
.) Aureement on a site for the nroposed SEKA Pulg Mill. There was some
disagreement between OGM and SPO on this point. Doubts were also
expressed about suitable water supply in the sites prepared by
consultants.
ii) Scope of the forest village comnonent in relation to a proposed
FAO/UNDP Proje^t. The Directorate of Forest Village Development.
ORKOY, had an ongoing Forest Village Development Improvement
Programme. FAO/UNDP were proposing a 3-5 year technical assistance
project  for  strengthening  the   planning   of   Forest   Village
Development in the Bagindar Region. The relationship between this
ongoing and planned Bank activity needed further clarification.
iii) Technigal Assistance. There was considerable reluctance in some
parts of MOF to accept expatriate technical assistance for project
planning and implementation. On the other hand, it seemed fairly
certain that some level of expatriate input would be needed if the
project was to be successful.
Preparation
i) Implementation Canacity. The CP mission pointed out that during
appraisal particular attention should be paid to project risks
related to possible failure by the Government's forest service to
achieve road construction targets. "If the targets analysed in this
project are not achieved, there is a risk that in order to maintain
log production at the proposed project level, clearfelling of areas
unsuitable  for  regeneration,  or overcutting of forests served by
existing roads, might take place."
ii) Revision of Mananement Plans in the Project Area should be
undertaken as soon as possible to take account of the new
afforestation techniques, felling regimes, etc., proposed in the
FAO studies concerned ("Forest Resources in the European Region"
and "Forestry survey of the North Aegean, Marmara and Black Sea
regions of Turkey", Rome, 1976).
iii) Technical Assistance had been proposed for the initial phase of the
project, especially with the need for adequate maintenance of the
large quantities of equipment and with the implementation of the
proposed management and harvesting techniques. While the Turkish
Government was agreeable to the technical assistance. it was
reluctant to have such assistance financed out of loan funds.
Apprai sal
i) Strengthening of MOF's Project Monitoring Unit (FPMU) to ensure
satisfactory preparation of annual operational working plans prior
to implementation of recommended project physical programes, and
also to provide a basis for monitoring of project progress.



- 45 -
ii) Financial and Budaetarv Imolications of the Project from the Bank's
point of view. The appraisal mission reviewed two alternative
options for reducing the project size, either taking a smaller
project area, or reducing the project development period to a
shorter time slice. In relation to the first option of a smaller
project area, the appraisal mission pointed out that Government
with UNDP/FAO assistance had spent the last three years and over
US$ 1 million in developing an integrated long-term forestry and
forest industry management plan based on allowable cut, felling.
thinning, reforestation of the northern region as a whole. The
project design was based entirely on this work and Government had
fully accepted the proposal. No project had yet been formulated for
a smaller area. nor could it be without a revision of the
management planning assumptions which would necessitate revised
feasibility studies; it would also imply phasing of forest industry
establishment over a longer period and could conceivably delay
start-up of the pulp mill project then scheduled for Bank financing
in FY 196O. A second main point was that, from the technical point
of view, the forests of the northern region are all undercut.
current production was less than half the annual allowable cut.
Over maturity in the natural forest was, in many areas, leading to
declining yields and spread of disease or insect damage. To
concentrate  road  and  logging  operations  in   selected   Forest
Districts would constitute an unsound approach to technical forest
management which the Bank could not support. For these reasons  the
Appraisal Mission rejected the option of a smaller project.
iii) The alternative of a project with a shorter development period was
not considered to be viable because of the nature of project works
and benefits. Reducing the project development period to a 4-year
time slice, for example, would not significantly reduce foreign
exchange costs (they would drop from US$ 95 million to about US$ 65
million) and would be technically unsound because project road
construction operations would be only 20% completed and forestry
operations only 10% completed by the end of the development period.
It would be too early to assess the results of reforestation or
industrial plantation establishment operations. A 4-year project
would not ensure future wood supplies for the industrial complex
planned for Bank borrowing in FY80. Project yields would remain at
the 1982 level. Based on this approach the project's financial rate
and economic rates of return would both fall to 4%. For these
reasons the mission also rejected this option.



3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)    27.00  37.88  47.06  54.98  66.70  74.50  86.00
Actual (US$ million)                   0.97  16.77  18.65  29.44  36.18  38.94  43.23  58.78  75.16  85.20
Actual as Z of Estimate                3.6   44.3   39.6   53.5   54.2   52.3   50.3   68.3   87.4   99.1               >
Date of Final Disbursement: April 13, 1988



_ 47 -
3a. Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Original Allocation      Final Allocation
Category                        US$ M. Percent          US$ M.  Percent
(1) Equipment and Machinery
(a) Road Construction, Stabi-
lization and Upgrading       27.60    32.1          18.03    21.2
(b)  Logging                      19.30    22.4          30.62    35.9
(c) Mechanical Workshop            2.20     2.8           2.89      3.4
(d) Forestry Operations           26.20    30.5          32.58    38.2
(e) Management Planning            1.20     1.4           0.48      0.6
(2)  Specialists  Services and
Fellowships                        0.90     1.0            0.62     0.7
(3) Unallocated                         8.60    10.0            -         -
TIOTAL             86.00   100.0          85.20 * 100.0
* The balance of US$800,000 (rounded) was cancelled effective
April 13, 1988.



-48-
4; trept JmoleuoIjtigj
Aoerasaal                   PCI
Indicators                            Unit                Et-$_"Wte                 WfZAM  yi
Nov red censtruction                          000 in                  2t 7                     14.4
Read stabilization                              *21.2                                           8.0
Read tpquading                                                         8.0                      5.5
Road tmsntuance                                 *                    43U 6                    317.6
Indnstrial veed                              million t                59. 5                    35.0
Feelvoed                                   pillion steres             73.4                     97.4
Forstel  Xratloil
Warking for telling                          pillion i                  -                      S3.4
Cleuufefling                                   1000  ha              403.0                    142.8
flterw elt fd ling                    *                  189.0                    225.1
lbelttived falling                              *312.0                                      227.2
Thiuning                                                             347.0                   1997.0
Noteral    -       ree oran
-a to p        ion                                *                  109.0                      -
-  Silo ccl Val mintonmnce  /                                       3342.0                   t3S0.0
Pentectita roest                                                       501.
-  P-lantino in understocked ares                 *                   29 0S35
"reunt vork                                    *                    80
-  zth  ttiell *t tracs fo fire                  010km b                 :0                     t.2
mm ne n*        lesett towur s.0                                            O93.0
-=tr eti n of dMti"S to elistiD9 tWMi                                71                       93.0
-   int ance of leokaot tMers
-  Estlamt of n   radio links                     *                                             4
-Nintee of radio links                                               -                       1.6
-   Eetinof doe  t3lp one ZIni                    00 kmt                                        1.3
-  nttean of teoni   l s                      *
BDildin, consLtretiu and maintoan
New mchical nerheps                               nin                  7                       12
Additsion  to existing uetksep   s                                     9                       II
Congiurectlmn ci admnistrtini  4 wuie
bu1igs (otbpet  than ue as)i and ensiog                                -
Bdeiding uaintennce--
Fereotro euriore
Artificial vegwtiea df ctoum  foet               000 ha              323                     6Ul
Industrial plttnim  establiohit                   .                   76
Conetial aestatle ti. *                                               86
Fire centrol truning in pulanations               *n-
Ereuim   ontrol*S72.
Raugiim'euunnt                                    *                    4                       40.3
b^it  plating                                     ^                   12-



- 49 -
Censtrectin  f neo uorseis                 Bember of "its             7                        6
of 3-4 NilliSn
plant caparity
Naimtmnance Csileic)turalD of:
- Attificial regeretstion
affrestation and animp planting               0  ha                 2/
- Insdutrial planati ons                                               2r
- trousin control                                                    19Z                        N
- Range iroeent                                   *                  115
isa nRainteu te  rier-to upgradino) in:
-lad ItRSen ae ished     to -I979    :                                41
- Plantatimns pltat    t179uw-I                   ^{
-  f  ptte  11 ins) eI ads)
- Eresin ctntro  ara  (1979 onvards) 
Boildinn constructien and maintenance
wr;o ne nertaten o, tawien senat it-
ACI utters appreprinte)
Adinistrative, servire and training
baidi * r staff & vitkers                        *                 594                       192
Villae read cinstrection
Village road stabili7ation                       000 ki                41
Village read Upgrading                          00 in                 V
Constructieon  f vjdlife breeding centres                                                       4
Transplatatiin operations                                                                       3
Constrectien of roads
1/ Contains all read construction and  aintuance         for all Sectors of pnject.
2/t All siliceltera) maintenance epeptions have bemn combined
3/ All ferestri regen eratie  operatiens re combined because of difficultys {  earatin of t s  n data  a gatherd.
U 4  e  rJad constructio  And maintenance section.
S/   indes adinistrati e, service and training cnres.
j/  Incldes 1986.



-50-
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate              Actual
Foreign                  Foreign
Local   Exchangg          Local  Exchanae
................ (US$ million).
CIVIL WORKS
- Road Construction           169.6    91.4    261.0   91.9    49.5    141.4
- Erosion Control and          38.8      9.7     48.5   13.8      3.5      17.3
Range Improvement
- Forest Protection            16.2      4.0     20.2    2.2        .6      2.8
- Buildings                    40.      12.5     f 60.4   2LI      Q         .
Sub-total Civil Works         265.5   124.6    390.1  112.2    55.6    167.8
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT         31.2    93.6    124.8   15.8    96.4    112.2
SERVICES                         7.0     5.9      12.9     -        .6       .6
Total Base Costs               ML   Z 2Z4.1    52L.8.aa IZ     1 52. ZL
Contingencies
- Physical (5%)                 15.2    11.2     26.4
- Price    (69%)              272.8    87.8    360.6
Total Project Costs           591.7   323.1    914.8  128.0   152.6    280.6
Comments
34.      Total  project  costs expressed in USS are substantially lower than
estimated at appraisal for two principal reasons:
i) Most of the project works undertaken remained well below SAR
targets. Almost 60% of total base costs were to be generated by
civil works, equipment and machinery for road construction but
achievements in new road construction were only 54% of the SAR
target.
ii) A dramatic appreciation of the USS against the TL (from TL 25.00 =
US$ 1.00 at appraisal to TL 674.50 = US$ 1.00 in 1986 and TL 857.21
= US$ 1.00 in 1987).
Earlier estimates (1982) had put the total project costs at US$ 550 million.
The basis had been actual expenditures during 1979-81. estimates for 1982
and projections for 1983-87.



- 51 -
B. Project Financino
Planned (Loan
Source                                            lComments
(US$ M)     %       (US$ M)      %
IBRO Expenditure      86.0     9.4        85.2      30.4
Categories
Suppliers Credit       6.5     0.7         6.5        2.3
Domestic             822.3    89.9       188.9      67.3
TOTAL                914.8   100.0       280.6      100.0
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal        Esimate at
Indicators                                 Estimate    Closing Date/Full Dev.
Incremental production   (mllion mi3)        1.O               none
of industrial roundwood       p.a.
Saving in foreign         (US$ million)      500.0              none
exchange                      p.a
Net contribution          (US$ million)       92.0 *            none
p.a
Employment creation in   (million of          14.2               9.0 1/
forestry operations        man/days p.a.)
Employment created in    (million of          94.0              40.0 1/
project works              man/days over
7 years)
1/ Estimate based on achievement of SAR targets
* TL 2.3 billion at TL 25JUS$.



- 52 -
B. Economic Tmpact
Aagrais$al
Estimate         PCR Estimate
.............  M ..............
Economic Rate of Return
Basic rate                                   76 1)          about 27 2!
Underlying Assumotions:
.1/ In the absence of the project MOF
would not undertake significant
alternative investments. In this
case all forestry operations would
cease by 1982.
2/ In the absence of the project. the
SAR-assumed 1981 level of production
of 2.3 million m would continue
until 1998. (See also Attachment 3).
Comment: Considering the overall performance of the project, the PCR estimate
would appear to be unjustified. Its high level is explained by the fact that
most of OGM's production is sold to public sector enterprises at lower than
world market prices. As shown in Table 1 of Attachment 3, economic values for
industrial roundwood and fuelwood in some years exceed the corresponding
financial prices by several hundred percent.
C. Financial Impact
Aonraisal
Estimate           PCR Estimate
..........................................(%
Financial Rate of Return
Base estimate                                70                 negative
Underlying Assumgtions
Same as above under B.



- 53 -
D. Studies
The project did not include any studies.
7. Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant         Subject                    Compliance      Status
Loan Agreement
- 3.01 (b)       The Borrower shall at   Throughout         Partially
all times maintain       implementation  complied
FPMU with such powers                      with
as shall be necessary
to carry out its
functions
- 3.01 (c)       The Borrower shall       Throughout        Delayed
employ in a timely       implementation  and only
manner international-                      partially
ly recruited technical                    complied
specialists                                with
- 3.02 (b)       Except as the Bank        Throughout       Not fully
shall otherwise agree   implementation  complied
the Borrower shall                        with
cause all goods and
services financed out
of the proceeds of the
loan to be used ex-
clusively for the
Project
- 3.03 (b)       The Borrower shall       Throughout        Substan-
maintain such records,  implementation  tially
procedures and sepa-                      complied
rate accounts as shall                    with
be adequate to record
and monitor Project
progress; shall have
such accounts audited
for each FY; and fur-
nish to the Bank.audit
reports not later than
seven months after the
end of such year



- 54 -
- 3.03 (c)      Promptly after comple-   Within six        Partially
tion of the Project ...  months of        complied
the Borrower shall pre-  closing date   with
pare and furnish to the
Bank a report on the
execution and initial
operation of the
Project
- 3.05          The Borrower shall,        Auoq.st 15 of   Partially
through FPMU, prepare    preceding        complied
and submit to the Bank   year             with
the proposed work pro-
gram for the next year
- 3.06          The Borrower shall         September 30,  Partially
establish within the      1980            complied
Project area and                          with
thereafter maintain in
operation 30 management
planning teams ... to
revise the current
management plans for
each isletme in the
Project area



8. Use ofRBank Resources
A. Staff Inputts 1/
FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  Total
Preappraisal    27.0  69.6                                                                   96.6            V
Appraisal              65.7                                                                  65.7
Negotiationt            9.0                                                                   9.0
Stupervision           0.4  20.1  15.4  24.6  20.1  13.9  12.1  55.5  21.7   7.3   3.6  194.7
Other                                     0.2                 1.6                             1.8
Total           27.0 144.7  20.1  15.4  24.8  20.1  13.9  13.7  55.5  21.7   7.3   3.6  i67.8
1/  In staffweeks; source: TRS.



3. Ns~in
Nenth/      No. of      No. of      5     1 S   alizatign             Performance               Tro  of
Recengaissnmce                1117h          I                                 F
ldeuiifictieu t14/M                          2              3                 F
pne arat1.n/Preapprai,a1    06177            4              5                  f F EN
S"p r.isia 217 ter                           &                                 fF)E,U             2              -2       
1                11/78          2              2                 F'                                                 N
*u.rigsn2 6/BI                          3              14                 F,UL               2              2                9
3                 2/96          1             11                 F                   2              2               0
4                 S/783         2             26                 FtRLI               3              2               F,I,T
*        S         3/81          1             1s                 F                   2              I,
1 Is               9/S1          2             In                 F,lL                2              3               F,N,T
*   7                 2/92          1             ii                  F                  2              2               FNT
*                     Om9           3             16                 F FAISL             2              2FNIT
-       9                 7/83          2              7                  F1RL               2              1               F INOT
I      1t                 2294       1e                                   F                  2              3               N,TIF
I      11 I1r94                         t              14                 F                  3              2               T N
f - tin12                 5/95                         17                 F, E,L             3              3               TON
*  13                 11/95                         5                 EIF                3              3                MIT
*  14                 16/97          1             16F3
I/ E   couoRist  EN   Eaviruwntallsii  F a Forester, FA   Financial Anaipsi,
IL lad&a ani I.quinq Expert. 
I Problem.frve?oSao tJroble': Li  oeriate probless;o 3 aNhjor prsblmn.
V// F  ~       flNanaer.    S: Othbe'i"'y Tz  echnical.



-57-
C.st
Average S Cost of    Averag  St cost of
Staoe of           I5nJiL L Cost      HO Activities          Field Activitv
Proiect Cnele       g.5.tLi.    L   oer Mission Member   ner Mission Member
Through Appraisal )
Appraisal through )
Board Approval    )
)       Information not available to mission
Board Approval    )
through            )
Effectiveness      )
Supervision        )



TURKEY
NDEN  FOESlRY FR.JECT
FROJECT CGRETION REORT
VaLue of Eqhipnwlt ard VehicLes Finrwxed out of the Lmm
it..                1979       1960      1981        1982      1983        1984       1985       1          1987       TotaL
...........................................................  am 90).................................................
Vehicles               -          -      2,818.9        -         278.6       -           -         -     13,789.3     16,956.8
Tractors               -      12,325.9     642.6     5,346.1    2,205.0       -       16,963.5      -      4,077.9     41,579.0
Loodrs                 -       4,073.3      -           -          -          -           -         -        873.5      4,946.8
biLe Towmrs            -          -         -                                                       0-  -  -  54.0  692.2  1,196.2
SpeciaL EcL1pmert      -         124.1      25.9        -         140a8    1,01L4         -      2,396.7     278.3     .3,984.2
Forestry Eqjipiet      -        477.?       -         619.0       222.1       -          67.2      196.6      98.1      1,680.?
Radio E"AP*nt       1,143.3       -      1?57.7        -          -         321.9       77.2       42.4   2,219.8      4,862.3
Mmrku*q EqjipApnt                            L -  89    -          -          -           -        267.2       -          276.1
Sbr-totaL           1,143.3   17,0M1.0   4,624.0     5,981      2,846.5    1,340.3    17,107.9   3,406.9  22,029.1     75,482.1    U'
Vre FPrts              -         492.1     8067      2,591.7    2,276.9       -          257.3      -      2,6M.1       9,094.8
TOTAL               1,143.3   17,493.1   5,43D.7     8,574.8    5,123.4    1,340.3    17,365.2   3,406.9  24,699.2     84,576.9
Source: 0lL



- 59 -
attchewnt 2
*TUUR1sE Y
N09THERN FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT CONOEZTtON REPORT
Procurement of fauiofnt and Vehictes - Number of Units by Source of financing
IeJer of Units            Source of Finance
SAR            tuat        SiR         Actuat
VehicLes
.Pic-ups  &o                                        44             -          GOT
Pick-ups, awD                                       482            265           T           GOT
t  P1ic-ups, 4WD                                        2             -_
.Dick-ps, 4WD                                      910           596                        to"R
Sub-totat:     T;               UT
.Pick-uo, 2 WD                                      452           265          GOT           60T
.Stion wagons, 4W0                                  770              8 
.Lowd Trucks                                         32             10                      IGRo
23                       GOT
.Fire Lorries                                        43             35                       19R0
.Aabite Workshoo trucks                              60             25
.Lorries, 5-7.5 t                                   174            155                       GOT
.Larries, 9 t                                        71             70                       -
.NiflibuSs                                          70       
tractors
.! oetrs, 180-220 ho                                216            230         I9RO          logo
I Dozer, 140 ho                                     44             49                       -
! ractors, 90-100 ho                                1S5            352
.Tractors, 65-85 ho                                 712            185         GOT
.Tractors, 65-85 ho                                                136                       GOT
Loaders
.we =W9                                             116             82        193          i93
.0eeot                                              112             10         GOT
.Hydrautic Graote                                   140             32         1830
.Hydrautic Grauote                                   70             -          GOT           -
30bite Logging Towes                                114             30           BRO         too 1
So"ciat euiomnt
.Winches                                            112            28S         GOT           tOR
.Ceomressors                                        416            135                       GOT
.oopressors                                          -              60                       t
*Rock Crushers                                       58             19                       GOT
.Oebaekers                                            2              6         9R3         t53
i Vibrating Rotters                                  58             30
Stowctearing Eauioment                                               6         GOT           -
*Fuet Tanks                                         209                                      GT6 GOT
Wiiater Tanks                                        43            106
*Etectric Generators                                216            144
j Chcin Some                                         -              80
I Frorestr EquIpment                                                           - I             3
; .wtching Toots                                     39             39         i90
!    .Chein Stashars                                       73            1s
I Oisc Harrow                                       240             89         .
.Otisc "arows                                                        2         *             GOT
.TIne Ptoughs                                       146             59
.10:ovat@rs                                          10              5         GOT
*Oitchers                                             9              6
.TratLens  ftLtbed                                   45             23
*nsecttcide Agticater                                 9             62         -
.Chain  aws                                                         81"
An .t ticides                                        -              n.e.                     19B
.Saede                                               -              n.a.       1930
.Lab. lEquipmnt                                      .              n.e.       GOT
.Nesting lo                                    134,000          4,703                       GOT
ont Cteny Containers                              3,200          3,715
j     Rd1le Etuiownt                              1,435          2,0n          GOt           19e
|  rAshe 1'10w1nt                                                   n.e.       GOT           lab0
Souret SAO and OG.
Notis n.s. a qwantity procured not knoua.



nazY
MIRN FORESRY PROJECT
PROJECT COWLETION REFORT
tnflataor Factors, FinanciaL Prices ard Enamnic VaLues of bod
t. IWLATOR FACTORS 1/
Ih lesue Price Irdex         Deflator        Excheng Rate
tigm - imr--                   UL~~c to twI
1919                    47.9                    16.9?             31A.(
19110                 I1.0                       8.12            76.0
1981                   136.7                     5.94            111.22
1902                   171.3                     4.74            162.55
1983                   223.8                     3.63           225.46
1984                   340.2                     2.39            366.68
1985                   477.1                     1.70            521.98
1986                   601..4                    1.31            6?4.5D
198W                   811.6                     1.03            857.21                                                 0
II. FItWEAL PRICES AN  EOtOEC VWS OF NlOD
1979    198)       1981      192       1983      1984       1985      1986    1987-
FinwiCaL Prices Z/
1udatr. RmaXMd1LD                 1,911    2,935      5,376     6,755     7,729    10,398      1D,70    V3,468   44,024
FWtd CTL/Ster)                       96      153        115      328        829    1,195        1,50      2,478    4,340
Ewna,alc VaLues
Imtr. IEUMW  31  (11J             3,m1    7,478      11,366    17,213     24,480    41,691    59,299    78,3m    99,412
felod 4/ OLStere)                  2OR       411        S19    1,05       1,83      2,837       3,625     6,513    9,215
1/ Sam: Inewt* iarl FiwviaL Statistics (W).
!i Some: OEM Pretng Dt. Prices for ird. wad pradxts from all project carancivces have been weighted.
i bned an ilport parity wLues of sauM        adjusted for differece in qality.
Z/ Openmrket price.



I u a K a v
Ith"ENh  FOUSTB? fECt
p601KW camlSOo UIP60t
in      "Am* &ard Vak. of hgi.ok  frts pmjftt khw- 9  w
Sm    k*Ai   so    kta        so  SAtw    SOS      ktIM      so     ktuaL    sm      Dctut l   us    kAtmLt    so        DctLat     Sm      kbt
Rome" umI                                                                                E
saji               I.6W0   3,31   IA.0  3.4       140   . 5~00 W  ,3lD   2,72    1.48     2,914  S1990   3.183    6,300    2.4W       6,30D     2,XK    6,10D    2.189
U   U      U       8      1      1       UQE     5?       10t    44    tUl 89               t1       U         3       5          3
we                   gm       m S    I UR 13    318  63    4W     63      21R      73  _     S             S_d       53       I         W        so       MD       3se
m  & AjilUp        I'M             2,73    31    2,2      S1   2.430    427    Z3           Ms  2,6W        61      2,8        m      2,8        6       2,8o     II"?
Slbt                M- t2           -      131     -      12      - -     3SS -             48             %1        -                           *U 41    -         m1
t                                                                                         'aut td  t'a    43,S V  t,O       4,m     IDIOM   ts *Dm.              s0D
IM tD )           tD,ll  I&Off  10,2  n5,m7   t4aD  1314D    lSwt % I   I                  t     X66t46t    W,1t   11,703    91m     lOR       t,2    la,XO    a,"
IItJIllOI tar
botiai ltd #t       OM    7.00   4.680  4, *F     2.33  2.33       0    23m         0     2,m3       0    2.33         0     2,3        0     2a,5D        0     4m
btm-  ('50 9~4)30    33   411t  mmD   7                 7UD   S2          .5D   S1         ?GM   5.30  t,           SZ3?     7.D      5,30    7.M        S,30     7
t           W         0   (243)  2W    4133   SAID  2,S14               1.124    9.A     1t,97t  9,1W    2.33    3.3         2,178    3,53     1,SS0    I,5DI      2,176
amlitnd (D stem)   0    2,m     1,w 072,tt  3.4   4.310   520 r,on  5,211    7,                    .30    53t    53          28       SIM   7Z           5,33    1A?6
VMIE tf UUItlR
_U                    ...... . ...   (I  iti1                                                ............ .  . ..   ........
F*wI  wave: 
b9L Wm                0   GO  = t5,0D 2    3   6K23.8 13.515  3.23.5  3W5   WM2   t1,    11. 5  21,194   11,432.1   45,00   11,432.1  MAW   11,432.1 9t 116
.*atqmi               0      266      0.1 1.t      0.1   ?26       02o 2.31        0.2    5           .2   ,74        0.2    02          0.1  1,1'        0.2    7,214
Tutal                 0   O1.10   3.t43   713  0,23.9 14,241  lk13.  12.    3,5.4   21to7  293   11,4N.3   1326   1.3.3  12,439 11,432.3  33,0t8
Ic "kw*:
.*IL mm       O       0   (7,30   3,.T (M2   62.0 26.2    9,AL1  263    ,177.1   413 t42         37       99,435   11,3N.2  129,S4   11t,l9.2 122,148  11,.1.2  Zt6.R1
*at_md               5      741       u402. 17    04  32          0.4  I'm         06   1W          0.6 t,3           0.6    ,4A2       0.6  G.W         0,.6   15,"4
[1.111                0   (,83   360.9!,W9    62.4 31,80   9 .  33.3  t7.t   1o 2                  76 3r.316   11,13.   1N96   11,13.  12t.0   11,-..3  231,70
It sm 4tS  in t1977 anstl U.
-  11 ttb If   &  d ad l dtm am in otna IL



..........X
HSI
..............
ifzEfi 
a* e _
*6: aD 
S-d --  1 
f   SSW33 3V                               -    -



Attaie_ft 3
- 63-                       TabL@ i.
I~ ~                   i
In?    ___  ii
3g, ~~..
*  .  .             ..   C
i~~ mi '_  C-
' ~~.*g



Ane 1
- 65 -                          Pae 1 of 2
EMBASSY OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF COUNSELOR FOR ECONOMIC AND COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
2523 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20008
TELEPHONE
Ref:  2351                                                     9M4sM
904143 TUFN4IR
November 21, 1989
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Division 1
OED/IBRD
Washington, D.C.  20433
Re: Draft Project Completion Report (Loan No. 1585-TU)
Dear Mr. Donaldson:
Please find enclosed the Turkish and English versions of
comments by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural
Affairs, General Directorate of Forestry (0GM) on the draft
completion report of Loan No. 1585-TU.
I would appreciate it if these comments are taken into
account in the final report.
,_--yfm rs sincerely,
Falih Selekler
Economic and Commercial
Counselor
Encl. 2



Annex 1
-66 -                         Page 2 of 2
COMMENTS OF THE GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF FORESTRY (OGM)
ON THE DRAFT COMPLETION REPORT OF NORTHERN FORESTRY PROJECT
As stated in the World Bank report, this project has
concributed to Turkish forestry, but not as much as expected.
We share the Bank view as to what caused this; i.e. the fear
and lack of enthusiasm of Turkish forestry officials towards
change and modernization in forestry; scarcity of qualified
technical people with language skills; lack of coordination and
communication within the project; late arrival of machinery and
equipment  and over-optimism during project  preparation.   Being
the first serious project in our forestry sector has, in itself,
caused  some problems.   Lack of sufficient data and documents on
our forestry resources, and not being able to explain to the
World Bank what, and to what extent, could be achieved in Turkey
were  major  deficiencies.    If,   during  project  preparation,
periodical data forms were standardized and outdated data were
updated, concrete information to be utilized for the project
duration  would  have been secured.   Training during  the  first
couple of years, both on the matters mentioned above and also on
communication, would have helped in facilitating coordination and
information exchange.
Notwithstanding  these  shortcomings  of  Turkish   forestry
officials, the over-optimism and high aspirations of the World
Bank  experts  were also an  important  mistake.   Moreover,  the
rationale of some of their down to earth targets were debatable,
like high production targets and replacing the existing forests
in Northern and Western Anatolia with fast growing type trees.
As indicated in the report, problems in rejuvenation and in-
sufficient young tree production, especially in species like
beech trees, would have caused destruction of our forests through
high production.   Nevertheless,  we share the views of the World
Bank that silvicultural activities were not successful.
Targeting to replace leafed forests with fast growing, low
quality species is also debatable. Instead of replacing the rare
and valuable oak and beech tree forests in Northern and Western
Anatolia, thought should have been given to improve them. On the
other hand, there are dangers in replacing species, such as
altering the natural equilibrium and an increase in harmful
insects and mushrooms.
All in all, this project has introduced mechanisation and
modern  forestry  know-how  to  Turkish  forestry.   Problems  in
production have been solved through mechanisation and important
improvements were realized in language skills, education and
modern thought.   If the last 3-year-performance were realized in
the first years, the project would have been much more success-
ful.



MAP SECTION



g~~~{\    N.:z  .  ;  .4..-..                                                                               N/ )\  >  _,i9tA....... .........   Er 
IBRD 13330 RI
50             9                    soe~~~~~~~~~~0                                 35540i
ULGARIA  .rt'_i                                                   BlI a - k                            5ea                                     40
Edarne irlrtareti                                                    Inebolu      Sinop                                                                   U.  S   S. R.
.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       Douaaa 4001t
Ma~~~~~Ii~K
U.                  Bandirma.               Anap                       KrmGai e
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
r TURKEY
o7  ;i/  r7i1t   r r /7n e a n    .Sa e                                                               K  SYRIAN                 NORTHERN  FORESTRY  PROJECT                                            3s-
< C-RU --,-0 ARAB                                    PROJECT AREA AND BASMUDURLUK LOCATIONS
ui~~~~~~~ CYPRU                                                                                                                            I                                  REP OFP
North Turkey projectoese                                                         / REP.
-APO    e c areo boundary                               -_-  40
o)  Sasmuduntuk heodquarters                                                                                           POLAND1>
-- Basmudurluk bounoories
o     M aMjor forested areas                                                         4s;                                                   
A    Site ot Balikesir newesprint project                                 i          m  /                                      >.va
o    Site ot Akdeniz *Orest utilizotion project                                                                           j 
Main roads' 
Railways                                                        /                                                       fa ROMANIA t-
-.-nnternational boundaries                                               ,                                       s  47
__Rivers                                                                                                             Go..->                  /s    e
The Bsmadaduk beandudes of AMAOYA,KASTAMONO end SINOP                                                                                                                , amer -uneBULGBULOA.
have Seen realianedsinevetis rap ass drawn.                                   ,/ The Wen. ;_L._-n.JS.                                                                          - _ -, 
re Iineaee,e                                        
o          too        200         300                       !                                    memo~t  t ., rveuav                                     Ankara               (N/.  O~
K  c n a-frT U  R  K  E YQ
/              r e  n,,   m m_e,,,,                                                             ' <. \-   -.o Jr   REP. OF
MILES r  r a   eSYRIAN                                                                                NORTHE              F O                                         IRAN
t0 Y P5 CRETE U  S              resae                                                           -\REP.   2
rNOVEMOERS 9R9



