Document of
C11          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2333-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
NORTHERN FORESTRY PROJECT
May 12, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977 March 1978
Currency Unit                   =                 Lira (TL)     TL
US$1                            =                 TL 18.00       25,00
TL 1                                              US$0.05       0.04
Note: The Staff Appraisal Report uses an exchange rate of
US$1   TL 19.25
FISCAL YEAR
March 1 to February 28
ABBREVIATIONS
AGM            - General Directorate of Afforestation and Erosion
Control
CLA            - Convertible Lira Account
FPMU           - Forestry Planning and Project Monitoring Unit
MOF            - Ministry of Forestry
MPG            - General Directorate of National Parks and
Environmental Protection
OGM            - General Directorate of Logging Production
and Forest Management
ORKOY          - General Directorate of Forest Village Affairs
ORUS           - General Directorate of Forest Industries
SEE            - State Economic Enterprise
SEKA           - The State Economic Enterprise for Pnlp and Paper



101 OFCIXL USE ONLY
TURKEY
NIORTHERN FORESTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            RepubLic of Turkey
Beneficiary:         Minisltry of Forests (MOF)
Amount:              US$86 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:               Seventeen years including four years grace, at 7-1/2
percent per annum.
Project
Description:        (a)  The project is a seven-year 1979-85 time-slice of a
long-term 1975-95 forestry development program for
the northern forest region of Turkey, which accounts
for about 60 percent of national forest resources.
The project seeks to improve forest management plan-
ning and operations, increase industrial roundwood
production from an estimated 6.5 million m3 in 1978
to 10.0 million m3 at full development in 1985,
thereby helping to meet market demand in the project
area and elsewhere in the country, and create addi-
tional employment for forest villagers.
(b) It provides for (i) construction of 26,000 km of
logging-extraction, forest, and village-access roads,
and stabilization of 25,000 km of existing forest
roads; (ii) procurement of specialized logging equip-
ment for inaccessible forests, vehicles and equipment
for road construction and log extraction, and instal-
lation of maintenance workshops; (iii) establishment
of an intensified forest management program, includ-
ing reforestration, afforestation, forest protection,
expansion of forest nurseries, erosion control, range
improvement, and wildlife and environmental protec-
tion; and (iv) technical assistance and training.
(c)  At full development it is expected to generate
over TL 4.0 billion in incremental income,
contribute about TL 2.3 billion in net revenue to
the national Treasury, save over US$500 million
equivalent in Iforeign-exchange, and iyield
additional benefits to most of the 5 million forest
villagers, who are among the lowest income groups
in Turkey.
|Tis documnt has a mtricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the performance
|of rti offical dutio. Its content may iot otherwise be disclosed without Word lank authorization.



- ii -
(d)  The project faces no special risks.  The basic man-
agement structure already exists. The Ministry of
Forestry Planning Unit will be restructured and
strengthened to enable it to coordinate the prepara-
tion of annual work programs for each of the 16
forest conservancies and monitor the implementation
of all project activities.
Estimated Cost:                                             Local   Foreign   Total
--------(TUS$M7---------
Road construction                      170       91        261
Erosion control                         25        7         32
Range improvement                       13        4         17
Forest protection                       16        4         20
Buildings                               41       20         61
Equipment and machinery                 32       92        124
Technical assistance,
training and research                  7       6         13
Physical contingencies                  15       11         26
Price contingencies                    273       88        361
Total                                 592      323        915
Financing Plan:                                             Local   Foreign   Total
---     (US $M)--------
IBRD                                   -        86         86
Suppliers' Credits                     -         6.5         6.5
Government                            592      230.5      822.5
Total                                 592      323        915
Estimated
Disbursement:        IBRD FY             1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Annual              27.0  10.9   9.2   7.9  11.7   7.8  11.5
Cumulative         27.0  37.9  47.1  55.0  66.7  74.5  86.0
Rate of Return:       76 percent
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1870-TU dated
Regional Projects Department, EMENA



REPORT' AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF T'HE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PRtOPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A NORTHERN FORESTRY PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$86 million to help finance
the foreign exchange cost of a Northern Forestry Project. The loan would have
a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7-1/2 percent
per annum.
Part I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         An economic resport (No. 1272-TU) entitled "Country Economic Memo-
randum - Turkey" dated October 21, 1976, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on November 2, 1976. Since then, the economic situation dete-
riorated rapidly and cuLminated in a serious balance-of-payments crisis and
high levels of inflation. This section analyzes the situation in 1977 against
the background of more permanent structural problems; it also outlines the
short-term stabilization package implemented by the new Ecevit Government
shortly after receiving its vote of confidence in mid-January 1978, and
prospects for the short-term.   This package, formed the basis of a Standby
Arrangement with the IMF, which was finalized in late March and approved by
the Board of Executive 'Directors of the IMF in late April. The determination
and sense of purpose with which the new Government has faced up to the severe
economic problems confronting Turkey, holds the promise that medium-term
economic and debt management policies needed to build on the stabilization
package, will soon be evolved with equal seriousness. The expanded Annex I
attached to this Report provides insights into those developments which
precipitated the present economic crisis, and analyzes them in detail in the
context of trends and the structural problems of the economy. An economic
mission planned in the Fall, will further review these trends and prospects.
3.         In most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good. As the result of a strong commitment
to rapid growth and modernisation, re\al output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Great strides have also been made towards meeting
the basic needs of the population in;such areas as education, health care,
water supply, and rural roads. However, employment has never been at the
fore of the objectives of successive Governments. Overall, this impressive
economic progress has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970 and 1977) by severe
balance of payments crises, which have been the product partly of extraneous
factors and partly of T'urkish development strategy itself, which has paid
insufficient attention to the structural weaknesses of the economy, and has
perhaps exacerbated somie of them.
1/   Part I is identicail to Part I in the Report and Recommendation of the
President on the Livestock IV Project, dated May 12, 1978.



-2-
Structural Problems and the Situation in 1977
4.        The emphasis which successive governments have laid on industrial-
ization has been reflected in a doubling of the share of the industrial
sector in total output between 1955 and 1977. It also resulted in comparative
neglect of agricultural development, which has also been hampered by inappro-
priate subsidy and pricing policies. Moreover, although some parts of Turkish
industry are efficient, and more have the potential to become so, a strong
emphasis on sophisticated capital-intensive technology has resulted in high-
cost production in certain sectors; and unselective protection against com-
petition from imports, has inhibited the development of an industrial
structure well-suited to Turkey's comparative advantages in terms of loca-
tion, natural resources and labor availability. One important consequence
of this, as well as of a foreign trade strategy which has emphasized import-
substitution, has been that Turkey has so far been unable to develop a strong
industrial export base, and has relied instead on its traditional agricultural
exports (supplemented by workers' remittances) to finance the imports of
materials and capital goods needed for its ambitious modernization effort.
This pattern of trade has been a fundamental cause of the difficulty, which
Turkey has periodically experienced, in reconciling rapid growth with a viable
external payments position.
5.        The rate of growth of production in Turkey, unlike almost every
other country, accelerated during the recent world recession. The average
annual real rate of GDP growth in the period 1970-73 was under 7 percent; in
the period 1973-77, it rose to nearly 8 percent. This was made possible by a
rising public sector deficit, which provided a stimulus to aggregate demand
and offset the depressing effect of sluggish exports and the increased
outflow of payments for oil. As a result, the growth of output was con-
strained not by demand, but by supply. Favorable weather and good harvests
caused the average annual rate of growth of agricultural output to increase
from about 2 percent in the period 1970-73 to about 7 percent in the period
1973-77, while industrial output grew at about 10 percent in both periods -
principally as a result of the sustained high level of industrial investment.
The pace of investment in Turkey, moreover, did not slacken during the world
recession; on the contrary, largely as the result of an intensified public
investment drive from 1975 onwards, the share of fixed investment in GDP
increased from under 19 percent in the period of the Second Plan (1968-72)
to over 20 percent in the period of the Third Plan (1973-77).
6.        The favorable performance of Turkish production during the 1970's,
was not matched by that of employment. Unemployment and underemployment were
relatively high (12 percent of the labor force) in 1970, and have since risen
to over 13 percent in 1977. This has been the result of a sharp reduction in
the ra,:e of emigration since 1973, a high rate (2.5 percent per annum) of
popu' -( 7in growth, and the adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of
produ rion in both agriculture and industry.
7.        There was a gradual deterioration in the external trading position
of Turkey since 1973, which culminated in the serious balance of payments



-3-
crisis in 1977. The resource gap increased from $623 million in 1973 or 3
percent of GDP, to about $4.0 billion in 1977 or more than 9 percent of GDP.
Imports of goods and non-factor services increased from $2.3 billion in 1973
to about $6.5 billion in 1977, or by about 30 percent per year, as a result
of: (a) significant increases in import prices since 1973, especially the
price of oil; (b) rapid increase in the demand for imported capital goods
due to high levels of investment and emphasis on industrial development; and
(c) a general liberalization of import restrictions. The remainder of the
deterioration is attributable to a decline in the rate of growth of exports,
both absolutely and in relation to the rate of growth of GDP. In dollar
terms, Turkish exports of goods and non-factor services grew during 1970-73
at an average annual rate of 31 percent; during 1973-77, the average annual
growth rate was only 10 percent. This decline in export performance had its
roots in ineffective administration of agricultural export sales, the world
recession, an uncompetitive exchange rate, and excess aggregate demand in
the domestic economy.
8.        The widening of the resource gap was amplified in the current
account deficit, which rose from $0.7 billion in 1973 to $3.4 billion in 1977
as the result of a decline in workers' remittances, which was a consequence
of the overvaluation of the lira, as well as of changes in the composition of
the Turkish emigrant population, including a decline in the proportion of
relatively recent migrants.
9.        The rapidly rising current account deficit was not matched by an
increased inflow of medium and long-term external capital. Turkey has
deliberately kept foreign private investment to a minimum. Borrowing from
long-term official sources has also stagnated since 1970, and recourse to
long-term market sources has been minimal, for lack of a dynamic and coherent
external borrowing policy.  In consequence, the overall balance of payments
moved from a surplus of $0.9 billion in 1973 to a deficit of $2.7 billion in
1977.  The cumulative deficit from 1974 to 1977 amounted to $6.6 billion.  Of
this, $1.3 billion was financed by running down the foreign exchange reserves
which by the end of 1977 stood at $770 million, equivalent to only one and a
half month's imports.  The remainder, amounting to some $5.3 billion, was
financed mainly by various forms of short-term borrowing.
10.       An important source of short-term borrowing was the Convertible
Lira Accounts (CLAs), which provided nearly $2 billion, in 1975 and 1976.
These are deposits placed with Turkish banks by non-residents and commercial
banks, offering a spectrum of interest rates according to maturity, and until
recently were guaranteed against exchange rate risk. Various other types of
short-term loans were also obtained. During 1977, however, foreign lenders
became reluctant to roll over the outstanding stock of short-term debt, and
even more reluctant to make further substantial loans. The Central Bank was
thus driven to delaying piayments for imports on a large scale. This action
made it even harder to obtain credit by conventional means. Financing of the
current account deficit in 1975-77 through recourse to CLAs and other short-
term borrowings is the main cause of the sharp increase in the debt burden.



- 4 -
II.       This deterioration in the balance of payments position can be
.-ewed partly as a reflection of inadequate efforts at domestic resource
mobilization, especially in the public sector. The public sector deficit
inczeased from TL 6.2 billion in 1973 to TL 77.0 billion in 1977. This
increased deficit was mainly due to a deterioration in the financial position
of the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), and in particular of the operational
SEEs, which dominate the transport and energy sectors and account for half the
output of mining and manufacturing. Successive governments, in an effort to
slow inflation, held SEE price increases below the rate at which SEE costs
were rising. In addition, the scale of SEE investment was greatly escalated.
The net effect has been a very rapid widening of the gap between SEE savings
and investment, which has caused the overall public sector deficit to rise
from 2 percent of GDP in 1972-73 to 9 percent of GDP in 1976-77. Most of this
increased deficit has been financed by borrowing from the Central Bank, since
administered ceilings on interest rates made it hard to attract purchasers for
government bonds. As a result, the money supply increased rapidly at an aver-
age annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974 and 1977. This was paralleled
by a high rate of credit expansion to the private sector.
12.       The rate of inflation (as measured by the wholesale price index),
which had declined between 1974 and 1975, rose to about 35 percent in 1977 and
accelerated in early 1978. There are important cost-push influences on the
price level in Turkey, including a powerful labor union movement and a farmer-
oriented agricultural price support policy. But the recent acceleration of
inflation has been the result principally of excess demand. The rise in the
public sector deficit caused an increase in aggregate demand well beyond the
amount needed to offset the damping effect of reduced exports and an increased
import propensity. The consequent upward pressure on the price level was
aggravated in 1977 by ad hoc import restrictions, which reduced the avail-
ability of goods requiring imported inputs, and contributed to the development
of a substantial idle capacity.
13.       The crisis of 1977 was thus a result of a combination of external
and internal forces. The rise in the price of oil and the world recession, by
increasing the cost of imports and reducing exports and workers' remittances,
adversely affected Turkey's trading position which was already structurally
weak. The effect of these elements on the balance of payments deficit was
amplified by the increase in the growth rate after 1973, which was a reflec-
tion of the basic Turkish commitment to rapid growth, manifested in an escala-
tion of public sector investment without a commensurate increase in public
sector savings. In addition, the seriousness of the crisis was aggravated by
inadequate management of agricultural exports, an inappropriate exchange rate
policy, and lack of a coherent policy to develop and tap fresh sources of
medium and long-term external finance.
Recent Stabilization Measures
14.       The previous coalition government had initiated in mid-1977, nego-
tiations with the IMF for a Standby Agreement. In the fall of 1977, it
announced drastic price increases for a number of goods and services of the



SEEs (ranging from 50 to' nearly 300 percent), devalued the Turkish Lira by 10
percent in September with a further adjustment of 5 percent in early December.
In the midst of the IMF negotiations, the new Ecevit Government came into
power, with a slim majority in the National Assembly. It decided to first
prepare its own stabilization package, before resuming negotiations with the
IMF. Within weeks of receiving its vote of confidence, it finalized its
Annual Program for 1978 and the 1978 Budget. As soon as the budget was
approved on February 28, it presented its stabilization package to the IMF.
The main features of the Annual Program for 1978, the 1978 Budget and the
short-term economic stabilization package, which formed the basis of the IMF
Standby Arrangements, included: devaluation of the Turkish Lira by a further
30 percent in March, remloval of the exchange rate guarantees for new CLAs in
an effort to minimize new inflows of these short-term deposits, increased
interest rates on deposits of Turkish workers abroad to encourage increased
remittances, increased interest/deposit rates to stimulate better resource
mobilization and allocation within Turkey, introduction of new tax legislation
(including a substantial increase in stamp duties on imports) which will inter
alia increase public revenues by about TL 20 billion per annum (equal to about
2 percent of GDP), substantial adjustments in the prices of key SEEs products
and services (with further increases expected in the near future) in an effort
to improve resource mobilization, plans to limit the growth of consolidated
public sector expenditures (including those of SEEs) within available resources
to thus sharply reduce recourse to Central Bank financing of public sector
deficits, reduction in the level of imports in 1978 to $5 billion from the
peak of $5.8 billion reaLched in 1977, and a projected reduction in the current
account deficit in 1978 to $1.45 billion. Although much remains to be done,
these steps should help bring some order in the chaotic economic house which
the new government inherited.
15.       The Standby Agreement was finalized on the basis of the above pack-
age and was approved by the IMF Board in late April. It provides for the
withdrawal of about $89 million equivalent in Compensatory Drawings, within
two weeks of the signing of the Agreement. In addition, since the Witteveen
Facility is not in operation, Turkey would be eligible to draw up to 150 per-
cent of its quota, whichi amounts to about $360 million under the Exceptional
Circumstances Clause. Ihis would entitle Turkey to withdraw about $174
million in the first two, tranches as follows: $60 million in May 1978; $48
million in August 1978; $36 million in November 1978 and $30 million in
February 1979. IMF will review economic developments and the progress of the
stabilization measures in January 1979. Following that, Turkey will be
entitled to withdraw a further $186 million over a one year period. In other
words, in calendar 1978, Turkey can withdraw a maximum of $233 million.
16.       With the signing of the Standby Agreement, it is expected that
Turkey would now be in a much better position to cope with its large short-
term debt currently estimated at $5.8 billion (excluding $409 million owed
to IMF), much of it due in 1978. This is its most critical immediate problem.
To tackle this problem, Turkey will immediately need to roll-over about $1.3
billion of CLAs falling due in 1978, but for which no major problem is expected.
It has begun negotiations with leading European and US commercial banks to
restructure the CLAs due in 1978 as well as an additional $1.2 billion of



6-
short-term debt into medium- and long-term debts. These banks, in principle,
have already agreed to present viable proposals shortly. The Government has
also sought the reactivation of the OECD consortium, in order to restructure
trade debt guaranteed by bilateral export financing agencies and public
bilateral debt. The Government is also actively pursuing other available
financial sources of external medium- and long-term capital aid, including the
tapping of possible new ones in the Middle East.
17.       If the current account deficit in 1978 is to be brought down to
$1.45 billion it will be necessary to bring about improvements in performance
of Turkish exports, both agricultural and industrial. This will require the
maintenance of a competitive exchange rate and an increase in the proportion
of investments devoted to export-oriented industries. It will also require
greater emphasis on agricultural development, together with revision of price
support policies and reform of agriculture export procedures. In addition,
other sources of foreign exchange earnings which have been neglected so far,
such as tourism, would need to be tapped in a systematic and effective fashion.
At the same time, the growth of imports will have to be kept down by much
greater care in the selection of investment projects and continued restriction
of nonessential imports. The 1978 Annual Program is considered by the new
government to be an interim one, which will constitute the first year of
Turkey's Fourth Five-Year Plan (1978-82) to be finalized by late 1978. The
new government seems determined to approach the formulation of future planned
targets and some of the key immediate and medium-term economic and debt
management policies, on a sound and realistic basis, and not on that of
ineffectual compromises which plagued the previous coalition governments.
18.       In 1978 and 1979, the measures necessary to recover from the present
crisis will probably cause the annual growth rate of real GDP to fall to 3 or
4 percent, but for the remainder of the Fourth Plan period (1978-82), higher
growth should be possible. To achieve this, it will be indispensable to
increase domestic savings, primarily by raising the rate of growth of budgetary
revenues, and improving the financial equilibrium and low productivity of
State Economic Enterprises. The consequent reduction in the public sector
deficit should help both to maintain external equilibrium and to moderate the
pace of inflation.
19.       A major medium and long-term problem is the high and rising level
of unemployment and underemployment. To alleviate this, will require a high
growth rate to be resumed in the long run, with more emphasis than hitherto
on comparatively labor-intensive commodities and techniques of production.
Moreover, increased attention to agricultural development, by reducing the
disparities of income both between the agricultural and non-agricultural
sectors and between rich and poor farmers, should further improve Turkey's
income distribution. Similarly, the tax system needs to be restructured in
such a way as to make it more progressive (as proposed in the new tax law
which is before Parliament), while the government continues its already rather
successful policy of reducing the inequality of living standards by providing
for basic needs through public expenditure. In the longer run, Turkey will
have to formulate policies which would help curb the population increase which
has, to a large extent, dampened the benefits of growth so far.



20.       The extensive shiort-term borrowing of the past three years has
greatly increased Turkey's external debt, giving it an unattractive maturity
structure, and causing a sharp rise in debt service payments. At the end of
1977, the country's total external indebtedness amounted to approximately
$10.0 billion, of which about $5.8 billion (excluding $409 million owed to
IMF from both figures) was short-term, most of which is likely to be rerolled
or restructured into medium-term borrowings as mentioned in paragraph 16.  The
remaining $4.2 billion was mainly public and publicly guaranteed medium and
long-term debt. Of this, about one third was owed to international organi-
zations, mainly the Bank ($0.8 billion, plus $0.6 billion in committed but
undisbursed loans) and the European Investment Bank; and about one half to
foreign governments and government agencies, notably those of the United
States, West Germany, Canada, and the USSR. In 1977, debt service payments
(including interest on short-term debt) amounted to 15.0 percent of exports of
goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
21.       The first objective of a prudent debt management policy should be
an adequate restructuring of the short term liabilities. A determined medium-
and long-term borrowing effort during the next few years should restore a
satisfactory balance between short and longer-term debt. But despite the
Government's current restructuring efforts, a substantial increase in debt
service payments is inevitable. The debt service ratio can be expected to
rise to about 23 percent in 1978 and peak at anywhere between 30 to 40 percent
in the early eighties, depending on the rerolling and restructuring terms
ultimately agreed to by commercial banks and other bilateral creditors and
export financing agencies. In these circumstances and until the outcome of
the restructuring negotiaitions as well as the strategy of the Government in
its Fourth (1978-82) Development Plan becomes available, it does not appear
meaningful to venture firm projections on growth, balance of payments or debt
service. However, if as the new Government intends, Turkey pursues sound
medium-term and debt management policies and shows the same seriousness as
it has shown in its short-term policies since assuming office, and as the
financial consequences of the recent crisis are gradually remedied, the debt
service ratio should decline after reaching a peak in the early eighties.
Although a tight balance of payments situation is likely to remain a medium-
term feature of the economy, Turkey would continue to have a substantial
borrowing capacity for medium- and long-term funds provided the present
short-term debt is restructured on adequate terms and future short-term
borrowing is strictly contained. However the situation will need to be
carefully watched and evaLluated as soon as a more concrete basis for doing
so becomes available.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY 1/
22.       The 1970 economic stabilization program and devaluation of the
Turkish lira, which improved the balance of payments, enabled Bank Group
1/   Part II is substantially the same as Part II in the Report and Recom-
mendation of the President on the Livestock IV project, dated May 12,
1978.



- 8 -
lending, which had previously been intermittent, to be established on a
continuing basis at a high level. As of April 30, 1978, the Bank Group had
lent $1,456 million to Turkey through 49 lending operations (or 43 projects,
since both loans and credits were provided for some projects), including 14
IDA credits totalling $178 million. Fourteen of these operations have been
in agriculture and rural development (including multipurpose projects),
eighteen in industry (including DFCs), ten in power, and the rest in urban
development, transportation, education and tourism. Agriculture and rural
development account for 24 percent of the funds lent, industry and DFCs for
about 42 percent and power for about 24 percent. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 30,
1978, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.        Implementation of projects has been satisfactory in the private
sector, but much less so in the public sector where significant delays
resulted from political uncertainty, limited coordination among agencies,
staffing problems and related administrative delays. Disbursements have
consequently been slower than expected. To improve this situation, the
Government and the Bank in June 1975 initiated joint reviews to identify
and resolve key bottlenecks impeding satisfactory project implementation.
So far, six such reviews have taken place, the most recent one in March 1978.
The results have been mixed, with improvements having occurred in adminis-
trative areas, e.g training programs and speeding-up of disbursement actions,
but with so far only modest impact on key policy problems, whose resolution
has been considerably delayed or prevented up to now by frequent changes in
coalition governments. Loan disbursements as of December 31, 1977, amounted
to 70 percent of appraisal estimates and 83 percent of revised estimates.
A comprehensive analysis of the main sector policy constraints which lay at
the root of inadequate project implementation was carried out with the new
Government in March 1978, and further discussed during the President's meetings
with the Prime Minister and other key ministers in April 1978. It is antici-
pated that as a follow-up on these discussions, the new coordination mechanism
being established in Turkey, will be able to take effective steps to improve
implementation of on-going projects, and accelerate disbursements further, to
provide a sound basis for expanding the Bank's future contribution to Turkey's
development. The sector policy perspectives outlined by the new Government,
and actions it has already initiated since coming into power, if followed by
sustained efforts on the part of the administration and by Cabinet decisions
to remove bottlenecks, should enable project performance to take a turn for
the better and strengthen the Bank's activities in Turkey.
24.        Bank lending has so far been mainly directed at supporting Turkish
efforts to improve: (a) income distribution and the level of living stand-
ards, through rural development efforts, urban planning, and increased employ-
ment and income opportunities; (b) the long-term capacity to earn or save
foreign exchange, through promotion of industrial and agro-industrial exports
and tourism; (c) lagging public sector saving, through the encouragement of
improved management and financing of the investments and operations of the
SEEs; and (d) institution-building in key public services, through selective
assistance for infrastructure. In light of the new Government's program,



- 9 -
which will be progressively refined and specified as the draft 5-year Plan
for 1978-82 takes shape by the end of this year, it will be necessary for the
Bank to review jointly with the Turkish authorities, how best its lending and
technical assistance can meet the above objectives, without facing the policy
and institutional obstacles encountered in the past. Pending the outcome of
this review, which should be carried out in the coming months, it is proposed
to continue to devote the Bank's development efforts to certain key sectors,
of which agriculture and industry are the most important. In agriculture,
emphasis is being put on rural development, the strengthening of agricultural
credit mechanisms, livestock, forestry, and fruit and vegetables. Industry
(including DFCs), where promotion of exports and employment, together with the
gradual strengthening of the SEEs are the key tasks, will also receive sig-
nificant support. This program is supplemented by projects in power, urban
development and transportation.
25.       Two projects, besides the proposed one, are being processed for
presentation to the Executive Directors in the current fiscal year. They
are the Fourth Livestock Development project and the Erdemir Stage II Steel
project. Projects under preparation for FY79 and future fiscal years include:
in agriculture, rural development in Erzurum, a second fruit and vegetable
project, seed production, grain storage; in industry, a second IGSAS fertilizer
project in Central Anatolia, modernization of public and private sector textile
production, and a third i-orest industries project in northern Turkey; in
power, a hydroelectric project; in transportation, port rehabilitation; and
in urban development, a possible sites and services project.
26.       At the end of 1977, the Bank Group's share of Turkey's medium and
long-term external debt (outstanding and disbursed) was 18 percent; its
share of Turkey's estimated total external debt (including short-term obli-
gations) was about 8 percent. The expected conversion of a large part of
this short-term debt into medium and long-term debt will cause the Bank's
share of medium and long--term debt to fall sharply, to around 10 percent by
1980. Thereafter, assumiing the currently projected increase in Bank lending,
the share would increase. The Bank's share of service payments on medium and
long-term debt is expected to follow a similar path, dropping from 20 percent
in 1977 to about 8 percent in 1980, but rising thereafter.
27.       IFC has invested in the production of synthetic yarns, pulp and
paper, glass, aluminum, ilron and steel products, and tourism, and has an
investment in the largest: private development finance company, TSKB. As of
April 30, 1978, gross IFC commitments totalled $157 million, of which $76
million were still held by IFC. The Corporation is currently investigating
additional investment opportunities in the industrial sector, including motor
bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder liners, and possibly aluminium
products.



- 10 -
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
Background
28.       Turkey, with about 20 million hectares of forests, located mainly in
the mountain ranges near the Black, Aegean, and Mediterranean Seas, has the
fifth largest forestry resource in Europe and the Middle East. However, these
forests, entirely owned by the Government, are of low productivity, currently
yielding less than half their potential sustainable annual allowable cut. As
a consequence, many of the country's sawmills and other forest industries
operate well below capacity, despite substantial unfulfilled domestic demand
for forest industry products. Forest product imports in 1976 were valued at
about $50 million; import demand for both roundwood and finished products will
increase rapidly if domestic production does not maintain its recent growth
trend. The limited domestic exploitation of forestry resources is largely the
result of past traditional and overly conservative attitudes toward forest
management and to insufficient road access in many forest areas. These twin
problems of forest management and access, have been studied in great depth by
the Government with the assistance of UNDP and FAO, and long-term modern
development programs introduced (paras. 29-31 below), of which the proposed
project is a major component.
29.       The Ministry of Forestry (MOF) carries out all forest management and
production operations through five General Directorates: the General Director-
ate of Logging Production and Forest Management (OGM), which controls forest
management, production (cutting and hauling are done primarily by villagers and
small private contractors in accordance with OGM cutting plans and schedules),
sales and infrastructure operations; the General Directorate of Afforestation
and Erosion Control (AGM), which handles artificial reforestation, afforesta-
tion and erosion control activities; the General Directorate of Forestry
Village Affairs (ORKOY); the General Directorate of National Parks and Envi-
ronmental Protection (MPG); and the General Directorate of Forest Industries
(ORUS), which operates sawmills and particle board mills. Forest-based indus-
tries are divided between the public and private sectors, with the public
sector playing a major role. About one-third of sawnwood production is pro-
vided by ORUS, with the remainder being produced principally in over 5,000
essentially village-based small private sawmills. Eighty percent of paper
products are produced by the State Economic Enterprise for Pulp and Paper
(SEKA). Forest output is distributed first by OGM to "priority users" which
include SEKA, ORUS, government agencies and forest villagers, with prices
based on average auction prices, on production costs for SEKA and other
governmrint agencies, and on a stumpage fee for villagers. The rest of the
output is sold at public auction, with a minimum reserve price set by OGM
sufficient to cover production and overhead costs.
Governm&nt Policies and Programs in the Forestry Sector
30.       Government efforts to develop the forestry sector have been directed
towards: (i) carrying out of a series of forest resource and exploitation
,tudies, with UNDP/FAO assistance; (ii) encouraging development of integrated



- 11 -
forest industries to maximize use of forest resources; and (iii) raising
living standards of forest villagers. With the completion of three major
forest studies carried out with the help of international specialists and UNDP
financial assistance, about eighty percent of Turkey's forest areas have now
been surveyed and feasibility studies for integrated forestry and forest
industry development prepared for about two-thirds of the surveyed areas.
Survey results indicate that the 1976 industrial roundwood output of about 6.6
million m3, could be more than tripled by 1995, with the introduction of an
integrated forest management system involving: stabilization of the existing
forest-road systems to lengthen the logging season; construction of new forest
access roads; reforestation; and more intensified management of forest areas.
In addition, conversion of natural forest to fast-growing industrial forest
plantations could ensure future self-sufficiency in industrial roundwood by
the end of this century. The Government's first forest resource study covered
the southern forests and formed the basis for the Akdeniz (Mediterranean)
Forest Utilization Project (Loan 957-TU), Turkey's first large-scale inte-
grated wood products project, for which the Bank provided a loan of $40 mil-
lion in 1974 and the European Investment Bank, $31 million equivalent. Under
this project, the Bank is assisting the Government in developing a pulp and
paper complex on the Mediterranean coast and in introducing an improved
forestry management system, based on modern technology, into the forest
conservancies of southern Turkey. Although the Akdeniz pulp and paper mill
is behind schedule as a result of foreign exchange stringency and consequent
construction delays over the past year, this situation is expected to improve
as a result of the economic program adopted by the Government this year. The
Akdeniz forestry component is progressing well, providing useful experience to
MOF for the implementation of the proposed Northern Forestry Project.
31.       The second study, which surveyed the northern forests, resulted in
preparation of a long-term integrated forestry and forest industries develop-
ment program which aimed at bringing these forests into full production in the
period 1975-1995. Preliminary findings from the study provided the basis
for Balikesir Newsprint Project, an integrated sawmill and newsprint manufac-
turing complex in western Turkey for which the Bank provided a loan of $70
million in 1976 (Loan 1258-TU). The detailed forest development program
resulting from the study, which the Government has accepted in full and
requested Bank assistance in implementing, forms the basis for the proposed
Northern Forestry Project, which would extend modern systems of forest manage-
ment, initiated under the Akdeniz and UNDP/FAO technical assistance projects,
to Turkey's major forest areas.
32.       The third and follow-up study explored the development of forest
industries in Northern Turkey, including detailed analyses of existing indus-
tries and recommendations for improving efficiency, which have begun to be
adopted. Full-scale market studies have also been completed and investment
feasibility studies for new processing capacity are underway, including the
proposed establishment of a pulp and paper mill complex on the Black Sea coast
in the early 1980s.



- 12 -
Forest Village Development
33.       A major constraint on the rational exploitation and development of
Turkey's forest resources has stemmed from the extensive damage to forests
caused by abuse by forest villagers, of historical firewood, grazing, and
cropping rights. While some forest villages are located within uninterrupted
high forest areas, most are located in areas of mixed forest and open crop or
grazing land. To help provide better protection to the forests and at the
same time help meet the developmental needs of forest villagers in an integ-
rated forest and agricultural ecology, Government forestry policy has become
increasingly concerned with: (i) improving the income and quality of life of
Turkey's 8 million relatively poor forest villagers, who comprise about one-
third of the rural population; (ii) developing programs to integrate use
of forest land for village agriculture activities with its use for forestry;
and (iii) encouraging the maintenance of forest village population, at least
in the medium-term, at a level sufficient to provide the work force needed to
carry out its forest development and log extraction activities. Labor avail-
ability for forest operations is expected to remain adequate in most forest
areas through 1995 when the forest village population is expected to have
declined to about 5 million, but further out-migration thereafter is expected
to lead to increased subsequent mechanization of logging operations.
34.       To achieve these objectives, the Ministry of Forestry established
ORKOY in 1971 and a forest village,development fund in 1974, which is financed
by a 3 percent earmarked tax on MOF wood sales and is administered by ORKOY.
Working closely with the Ministry of Village Affairs and other concerned Gov-
ernment agencies, particularly at the local level, ORKOY prepares integrated
village development plans, which it assists in financing, which include infra-
structure development such as roads and electrification and provision of
supervised credit for productive on-farm investments including poultry and
livestock development. While ORKOY's program is effective, it is relatively
new and still needs to evolve a sounder technical basis for crop and livestock
development. The proposed project includes pilot schemes for range improve-
ment as an important first step in this direction. The proposed project also
includes financing for village access roads, and ensures substantial increased
funding for the ORKOY program through increases in MOF sales resulting from
the project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
35.       The project is based on a "Forestry Survey of the North Aegean,
Marmara and Black Sea Region of Turkey", carried out by consultants under the
UNDP/FAO assisted series of forestry studies (paras 30-32), and was prepared
with the direct involvement of MOF's Planning Unit. A Bank Reconnaissance
Mission visited Turkey in November 1976, followed by an Identification mission
in April 1977, and an FAO/CP and Bank Preparation/Preappraisal Mission in June
1977.  The project was appraised in October/November 1977.  Negotiations were



- 13 -
held in Washington in May 1978. Turkey's delegation was headed by Mr. Asaf
Guven, Chief Economic and Financial Counselor of the Turkish Embassy, and
included representatives of the MOF and the Treasury.
Project Object--.es and Area
36.       The proposed project is a seven-year 1979-85 time-slice of the long-
term (1975-95) forestry development program for Turkey's northern forest
region. A seven-year period for the project was chosen as the minimum time
span within which a realistic evaluation can be made of the proposed refores-
tation and industrial plantation programs, since two years are needed to
develop nurseries and five years to obtain a reliable estimate of potential
yields and survival rates. The main objectives are to: (i) increase indus-
trial roundwood production in the currently underutilized northern forests
from the estimated level of 6.5 million m3 in 1978 to 10 million m3 in 1985,
thereby providing additional raw material to help meet market demand elsewhere
in the country as well as in the project area, where some 3,500 mainly small
village sawmills and about 25 major forest industries are located and where
several large-scale forest: industries are currently in the planning stage,
including the pulpmill complex planned for the Black Sea coast; (ii) create
additional employment for forest villagers; and (iii) strengthen an ongoing
Government program for development of forest villages.
37.       The proposed project area, incorporating 16 of the country's 26
forest conservancies, is Located in the western and northern part of Turkey.
It stretches from the Aegeaan Sea to the Russian border. It contains 50,000
sq km of productive high forest, of mixed coniferous and deciduous trees,
including commercial species of fir, pines, beech and oak. The area repre-
sents about 60 percent of the country's forest resources. In recent years,
the area's contribution to national industrial wood production has been about
70 percent or about 5 milLion m3. About 5 million people live in some 9,000
forest villages in the areaa; this constitutes about 12 percent of the national
population. The estimated per capita income in these villages in 1976 was
only $155, compared with the national per capita income of $990 in that
year. These are therefore amongst the poorest people in Turkey.
Project Description
38.       The proposed project would provide for:  (a) implementation of an
intensified forest production and management program, including reforestation;
(b) the construction of about 26,000 km of forest and logging extraction
roads, including about 400 km of village access roads; (c) stabilization of
25,000 km of existing and newly constructed roads, including about 2,000 km of
village access roads; (d) fixed and mobile mechanical workshops for equipment
maintenance; (e) logging equipment needed for extraction of logs from steep
inaccessible areas which cannot be harvested by manual methods (comprising
about 10 to 15% of the project area); (f) establishment and planting of indus-
trial plantations on about 76,000 ha of currently non-productive lands with
fast-growing tree species and of 86,000 ha of conventional afforestation;
(g) erosion control works in about 57,000 ha of forests which form part of
critical water catchment areas; (h) range improvement in about 64,000 ha of



- 14 -
potential grazing areas, with special emphasis on pasture improvement and the
initiation of pilot rotational grazing schemes for forest villages; (i) con-
struction of seven new forest nurseries for seedling production with an aggre-
gate capacity of about 25 million plants; (j) intensification of forestry
research and revision of current management plans; (k) forest protection and
conservation works including construction of additional fire towers; (1)
fencing of forest regeneration areas to prevent browsing by livestock; (m)
pilot wild life and environmental protection programs in forest areas and
national parks; (n) training of MOF personnel in forestry management and
log extraction techniques through 144 man-months of training fellowships
abroad; and (o) on-the-job training of MOF personnel in the fields of manage-
ment planning, machinery operation, and industrial plantations, and training
of villagers in forestry operations.  Details are provided in the Loan and
Project Summary and in a Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Northern Forestry
Project" (No. 1870-TU) dated May 12, 1978 which is being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
39.       The project will introduce modern technology to extend the currently
short logging season, thus easing the conflict between labor requirements for
agriculture and forestry operations during the peak planting and harvesting
seasons, and thus enable forest villagers to increase the proportion of their
annual income deriving from forest work. It will extend log harvesting into
inaccessible areas by use of skyline logging systems; intensify forest manage-
ment, including establishment of fast-growing industrial plantations with
selected indigenous and exotic species which can produce up to ten times more
industrial wood per hectare than slower-growing natural forests; introduce
erosion control measures in steep catchment areas, including a monitoring
system for checking sediment load in streams flowing from forest areas and
determining the effects of upstream logging operations and graziers; introduce
planning methods based on shorter cropping rotations; concentrate forestry
management and extraction operations to reduce log production costs; and, as
summarized in items (b), (c), (h) and (o) of para. 37, directly support key
aspects of ORKOY's program to assist the economic and social development of
forest villagers, through construction and stabilization of village access
roads, improvement of range management, and provision of training.
Project Cost and Financing
40.       Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at $915
million equivalent, of which $92.5 million is direct foreign exchange, and
$230.5 million is in indirect foreign exchange. The latter represents in
large part the imported components of Turkish-manufactured equipment reserved
for procurement in Turkey, and imported fuel needed for road building and
other project operations.
41.       The proposed loan of $86 million will finance 93 percent of total
direct foreign expenditures, or 9 percent of total project costs. The remaining
direct foreign exchange costs of $6.5 million are being covered with supplier
credit financing obtained from Brazil. Local currency requirements, including
indirect foreign exchange costs, will be fully financed by the Government,



- 15 -
through OGM, which, as a revenue-generating agency, enjoys almost full fi-
nancial autonomy. OGM has substantial accumulated equity (about TL 3.7 million
in 1976) and will operate on an entirely cash budget. Written assurance has
been obtained that, to the extent practicable, the overall pricing of MOF's
roundwood will fully cover the cost of wood production, including overhead
costs. In practice, based on the experience with MOF's ongoing wood auction
policies, all operating and investment costs of the project are expected to be
fully covered by wood sales revenue. However, written assurance has also been
obtained that in the event the funds accruing to the Revolving Budget of the
OGM should prove to be insufficient, the Government would allocate funds from
other budgetary sources to complete the project.
Project Implementation
42.       Project implementation will be carried out by MOF through four of
its General Directorate as follows: OGM will implement the project road
construction and log extraction programs and those reforestation operations
relating to regeneration of natural forest in logged-over areas; AGM will
implement the project forestry works related to establishment of industrial
plantations, afforestation of degraded forest, erosion control, forest mainte-
nance, protection and range improvement; ORKOY will be responsible for plan-
ning the project village road component and range improvement works, and
will be consulted on all matters relating to the project's involvement of
forest villagers in forestry and extraction operations; and MPG will imple-
ment environmental protection and wildlife breeding programs in the project
area.
43.       Project coordination will be carried out by a Forestry Planning and
Project Monitoring Unit (FPMU) to be formed by strengthening MOF's existing
Planning Unit. FPMU will coordinate the preparation of annual work programs
for each forestry conservancy, assess physical progress, prepare quarterly
reports for submission to the Bank on project status, and identify and help
resolve project bottlenecks in consultation with the implementing general
directorates. The annual work programs will be submitted to the Bank for its
review and comment by mid-August of the year preceding implementation of the
annual program (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05). To carry out this function
FPMU's staff will be increased to at least 12 full-time professional staff by
December 31, 1978. It is expected that these positions will be filled mainly
by experienced forest engineers to be assigned from the existing Planning Unit
and the four implementing general directorates. Written assurance has been
obtained that FPMU will also be provided with five vehicles by September 30,
1979, to facilitate its monitoring work in the field.
44.       To ensure achievement of project production targets, current man-
agement plans for Project Area forests will be revised to introduce intensive
forestry management techniques, including shorter rotations and reforestation
with fast-growing species. This revision, which will cover all of the high
productive forest in the Project Area, totalling about 5 million ha, will be
carried out through the establishment of at least 30 management planning
teams in the project area by no later than September 30, 1980 (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06).



- 16 -
45.       To assist MOF to intensify forestry management and improve techniques,
project provides for 144 man-months of overseas training fellowships for
MOF personnel in various aspects of forestry management and extraction and 12
man years of expatriate technical consultant assistance, particularly in the
fields of management planning, organization, administration of workshop opera-
tions and industrial plantations, and conservation and environmental protec-
tion, at an estimated cost of about $5,600 per man-month. The Government has
also agreed to employ internationally recruited technical specialists to
assist in carrying out the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(c)), and
written assurance has been obtained that these specialists will be hired by
December 31, 1978.
Markets
46.       At project completion in 1985, Turkey's annual consumption of indus-
trial roundwood is projected at 14 million m3 on the basis of detailed market
analyses contained in the FAO/UNDP feasibility studies. The entire project
output of industrial roundwood at full development, totaling 10 million m3, is
expected to be consumed domestically by existing industries, or by new indus-
tries under construction or in the planning stage, for which some 40 private
and public feasibility studies have been completed and have received prelimi-
nary approval of the Government. ORUS sawmills are expected to provide a major
market, and ORUS and OGM periodically consult each other to ensure effective
planning of wood production targets to meet ORUS raw material requirements.
Close OGM liaison is also maintained with SEKA concerning pulpwood require-
ments for existing and planned pulp and paper mills, and written assurance was
obtained that the annual work programs submitted to the Bank (para. 43 above)
will include a forecast of requirements for wood supply for each of the major
user categories, including ORUS and SEKA.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Equipment and machinery totalling about $85 million will be bulked
and tendered subject to international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement." As an exception to this, items
estimated to cost less than $50,000 may be procured on the basis of quota-
tions from three suppliers, up to a total limit of $500,000. Goods manufac-
tured in Turkey will be granted a margin of preference in accordance with Bank
procedures.  The Government will issue import licenses promptly to all suc-
cessful bidders for goods put to international competitive bidding (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(c)). As mentioned above (paras. 40-41), $230.5 million
equivalent in indirect foreign exchange costs, largely representing the cost
of imported components of Turkish-manufactured equipment reserved for procure-
ment in Turkey, will be financed from the Government's own resources in line
with the project schedule, and written assurances to this effect have been
obtained.
48.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of the foreign
exchange expenditures on imported machinery and equipment and foreign consul-
tants and overseas training of Turkish staff as well as 100 percent of the



- 17 -
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment if awarded after inter-
national competitive bidding. To achieve the proposed implementation schedule
it will be essential to acquire a substantial amount of road construction and
other equipment in the first year of the project. Arrangements were therefore
made with the VAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and the MOF to prepare equipment
specifications and bidding documents during February, 1978, with a view to
expediting preparations for award of procurement contracts.
Benefits and Risks
49.       The economic rate of return, based on a 20-year life, and not taking
into account the full benefits of industrial plantations, protection against
fire, disease, illegal exploitation, nor the benefits which are difficult to
quantify, including land conservation, village roads and range improvements,
is estimated to be 76 percent. The unusually high estimated return reflects
the project's large sunk costs. Not only has much of the infrastructure been
developed in the form of major roads, depots, administrative buildings, and
forestry extraction and management techniques, but the standing forest can be
immediately exploited under sound management without depleting the national
stock. Therefore, this is one of those unusual projects which will start
providing a financial return in its very first year of operation. Sensitivity
analyses indicate that, with either a reduction in roundwood prices or in
incremental production by 20 percent or an increase in all costs by 20 percent,
the economic rate of return would fall to 43-49 percent. If implementation is
prolonged by four years, the rate of return is reduced to 70 percent.
50.       The proposed project would help increase industrial roundwood pro-
duction in the project area from 6.0 to 10 million m3. Gross revenue is
expected to rise from about TL 9.6 million to TL 11.4 million, and MOF's net
income from TL 1.4 million to TL 2.1 million in the second year after full
development. Based on incremental output attributed to the project, the
financial rate of return is about 70 percent. At full development, total
incremental benefits are estimated at about TL 4.0 billion. In addition,
industrial roundwood is expected to substitute for potential imports of both
roundwood and forest manufactures estimated at more than $500 million per
annum. Other benefits, which cannot be quantified, would result from range
improvement, erosion contWrol and forest protection activities. The project
would also extend to Turkey's most important forest region the development of
MOF's forest management capabilities commenced under the Akdeniz project.
51.       The proposed project may also be expected to yield additional bene-
fits by 1985 to most of the 5 million low-income forest villagers who live in
the Project Area, by providing an estimated TL 340 million annually in addi-
tional wood sales tax revenues allocated to the ORKOY Forest Village Develop-
ment Program.  It will aLso decrease isolation from markets and employment by
the construction of village roads. The logging season, at present limited by
the lack of all-weather roads to the dry summer perind .-f S0-160 days, will
be extended to 175-225 days into otherwise slack seasons, thus increasing
forest employment by about 75 percent, or at least 165,000 forest workers,



- 18 -
which is about 8 percent of the labor force in the Project Area. In addition,
road construction would provide an average of 65,800 man-years of employment
annually during implementation.
52.       The project faces no special risks, although given the large size
of the Project Area and the very large road construction targets, some slip-
page in project implementation and achievement of production targets could
result. However, all four implementing general directorates have satisfactory
records in implementing large-scale forestry extraction and management pro-
grams, and no major problems are anticipated.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank,
and the report of the Committee provided for in Article II, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Features of special interest are referred to in appropriate para-
graphs of this report and summarized in Annex III.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 12, 1978
Washington, D.C.



TABLE 3A                                              ANNEX I
TURKEY              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                            Page lof  21
LAND '-EA (THOU KM2)
TURKEY                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       780.6                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     55z).4                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE            COLOMBIA       IRAN           ITALY**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     270.0*    500.0*    990.0*                350.0*      670.0*    1910.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            27.8       35.6       41.2                20.6        29.0        53.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        35.0       46.0       53.0                18.0        18.0       178.0
PER So. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         52.0       65.0       74.0                93.0       107.0       266.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          44.8       40.6       39.4                44.3/a      45.9        18.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)           16.9       14.4       12.5                11.0        18.5         9.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        187.0/a,b153.0/a                           70-0/b    140.0         29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        49.3       54.4       56.9                58.5        48.8        71.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.9        2.6/b,c  2.3                   3.2         3.4         1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  3.0        2.5        2.5                 2.9         3.1         0.8
URBAN                                  5.1 /a     4.9/d      4.2                 5.5/c       4.8         0.8
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           31.9       38.7       42.6                60.3        41.0        51.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        41.3       41'7      41.7                 46.6        46.0/a      24.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                        55.2       54.0      53.9                 50.4        50.071      65.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.5        4.3        4.4                 3.0         4.0Th      10.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9        0.8                 1.0          1.o/a       0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0        1.1le      1.2 /a              1.6/d       1-9/a       -.9/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         ..                          306.9       662.4
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             5.3        8.2         ..                  ..        10.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        13000.0/c14000.0/f16400.0/b                 6200.0      8700.0    19600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE tX)         71.7        63.4       52.5/c              39.0        43.0        19.0
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)            9.7/d    11.9/&    13.37w                 7.0         2.1         3.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5X OF HOUSEHOLDS             33.o/e f 32.8         28.0/e              3'.9 /e    29.7 /b
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             61. o7te   60.61k    56. e                60.1 7e    54.47.
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.2  e     2.97V                          3 5         40T
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEIJLDS            10                        5 35             10.1        12.7 1
10.b.5,t    ".~~                         10.111      127 7e
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..      39.0 /l       ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS                      0.7 T/
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              3220.0!&  2250.0    1880.0                2110.0      3300.0       550.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         3260.0/hi  1770.0 1  1140.0 /f                *-      3230.0       470.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            650.0      500.0      470.0               430.0       780.0        90.0-
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES I% OF REQUIREMENTS)         110.0     112.0       113.0               92.0         90.0       126.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              753         78.0      76.0                 51.0        53.0       100.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..       22.0/k    24.7                 29.0/f      14.0/c      42.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             16.0/e    14.7/1         ..                8.4           *-         1.0
EDUCATION
ADUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        75.0      109.0      108.0               100.0        83.0       110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      14.0       28.0       30.0                23.0        26.0        60.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              11.0       11.0       11.0                11.0        12.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      18.0       14.0       15.0                20.0         3.0        26.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE IX)                 40.0/i    55.0/m         ..               73.0           ..       97.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER POOM (URBAN)                 2.0         1.9        ..                  ..         2.2/a,d
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (IX                       81.0       66.0       52.0                  ..        87.0/a,e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  29.0       40.0       57.0                  ..        25.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY IX)                     2.0       18.0         *-                  *-         4.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          49.0       89.0      107.0               105.0         93.0       218.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0        4.0        8.0                 11.0        10.0       190.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           102.0      247.0      400.0               414.0       246.0      2262.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.8        0.7        2.3                 2.7          0.4         5.3
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Paes  2 of   2 1
t;olo- otttnr,ato .totd, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 19-70 between 1969 end 1971, end for Most Recent Estinats between
ZP pen capita date eve hose.d on the fonld Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
Thtln- rrantegy of Torkieb plannIng corrently give.  tha 1970 level of Italy as its objective.
lIhEEl  mS     /o 1955-6f;        lb  Derived from ample eurvey estinates (9,700 households) , might be ondsrestinated;                     /c  Civilian  labor force (1965);
/d  1965, icoloding peak a.e.c  agri.oltura1 anderemployment;    Ia  1963;    /f  Dispoesable income;    L1A  1962;                        /b  Incloding
aooleant  -can   and ntdoivo;           if  Persona   i. years  and over who tell the 7naces takers  that they nan read aod   rie
19%   o  1967;   /h  Oooldoo  17 ...atern pnoviecas;          Ic  1965-67;       /d  1965-70;       Ia  Ratio of papolation onder 15 and h5 and over
cv total lahor force;        /f  Civilian  labor force;         /Aj  Including peek sasaon, griou1tural ondsrenplaymsnt;              /h  Diapoeahle
income  (1968);      /f  kgrTcoltural land (1973), ignoring landless hocseholde;                Li.Including ass istant n.oras and midwives;
'ik  1964-66;     /1  1967-686       Ic  Persons sie year. and over who tall the cmo   takers  that they nan read eod writs.
M201 RECENT ESUTIMATE:    I   Ratio of popolation  noder 15 and 65 sod over to total labor force.;                    /b  Civilian lahor force (1977);
/o1977.     /d  Incloding peak seaso  a gricultural  -ndereoployne-t (1977);               Ie  Disp.oehle income (1973);
/f Inoludieg asaistant n-rsa. and midwives.
COLOMB IA     19C       '   Official aetinates ba...d on registration shov avareg  crude birth rate for 1960-7 1as36;                      Ib  Roat  based om  boria1 permits;
/0  1964-70;      /d  Ratio of papalation under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;                   /e  Ec onomically active popolation
/-f 1964-66.
IRAN   1977     Ia  1966;      /b  Urban only;        Ic  1964-66'       /d  Excludes nomadic trihee;    Ia  inside only.
TAY    19')0    ;   Ratio of population .nder 15 amd 65 end over to total labor force;                  /b  Hospital personnel.
R13, March 21, 1979
DEFINaITIONSi Or SDCIA INDICATORS
codAra,h.,imk1o2                                                                            Paoplation eec nr-lg parson - Ppop1lt ion divided by mother of praeticiog
Tr!-r',-l  -jrtuc  ae     - prfsiog land area and inland cacere.                               male and fs1.ne gradoats  ces  "trained" or ".ertified" nure, and
cent- c -lo   r-e o  catiato  of agriool1rarl ares need temporarily or pea--aemiliary personne  with training or eaperie-ce.
-nenly fv-enpc, puotr-a. oune, 0 kitchen gardesr  or to lie follow.                            Ppunlation per hosnital bed - Popolation divded by comber of hospital beds
available in public and provers gen..re1 end specieliesd haspitol sod
ItF con  -oelta ('5$)-00 per capita eatLuratos  -nc-ent cachet prioae                              rehbilitation  centers ; ...code.snursieg homes end natablish.ects  far
n-icoiced by caecnvr-           ,method an World Bank btibs  (1973-75 basis);                    cuecodial and praevetive esre.
1967; 1971 o-d 1975 dare.                                                                      Par capite scenic of caoie    % of rCccsil -Coputed ftre  enerfy
equ.ivelet of  st food supplies availble in co.anty per ospita per d.y;
Pspa.Ianta  and ovfoal onanistic~                                                                  avilshle sapfpliss comprise donescic prodaction, bipert    .. leesxporte, and
ve2.lo-i-n /otd-vo- citicor)    c of toly firot;  if cot  -nilehie, eversge                         oheoges in ecck; net  uapplitea ee lde seimal fead, aerda, qoantitiaeu-cd
or -ved-yoec -   oao   1 '60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                            in iced processing and lessee in distribotion; requirements warn escisaced
by FAO based on physiclegical needs for -ena ac.tinity and health  oneld-
fo;!aicd-oicy-per ancar lk  - Old-year pcpo1aoicn per cquare koloascr                        esnag eniromate1 temperature, body osight, age sad see di-tribction  of
1190 bctneo  of tota  area.                                                                      popoletion, and allowing ilZX for...ete at hosehold levsl.
osumnd-icir   pca  oqoane ko of aurio. land - Componed ae above for                        Per canita suenly of protein (erase p- day) - Protein content of per capita
1-iccoe   ad only.                                                                        net supply of food per day; nec tsopply cf food is defined a5 above; reqoirn-
meats for all coescries astablished by iiSDA Econaic Resea rch Sevice
Vicul oaino                                                                                         provide for a mieei-  e11weece of 60 gr.a.s.of canal protein per day, and
(rode bO-b rate err thounand. avera    - Annua  live births par thousand of                         20 grome of aniotal end poles protein, of ohich 10 gras  ehoold he aei.lsa
mid-n'nu  popolotion; ten-year orithesetin  aveage  co-din-  ,In960 sand 1970,                   protein; these atandards are lowe  than chose of 75 gr-s  of coral protein
a-l fio--nc   -v-ngo ending in 19 75 for ova  trecent en ti_te.                                  and 23 grasa of animal prctein as en averge for tha wald, peecosd by Po-
tl-ori druch -rocero th...a.. dver-ae - Annoa1 deaths per thoosand of mid-yea                       in the Third World Pood Survey.
popol-ion; ten-year anith.seic averaf.en oding in 1965 and 1970 end five-                      Par capita  protein aupply free animal sod pclee  - Prctein sapply of food
,naeoeeding  in 1975 for cost reet ceriane.                                             deriond fra  animals and pclsss i. geoam  per day.
Inloc cnnlty  are h.bo)-loa!douchef infants under one year of age                         Deach rate f/chau ages 1-4 - Annual deathe pee th-osad in age grop 1-4
p  ...b...ud lie "irth'.                                                                      y.sre, in children in thic age group; soggeeted aanindicaton of
Life eoccuoa  hirth (yr.)  A- Avgo cnhber of years of life renainicg at                              el-otrition.
It;  oa iy-lo-ycnr  -or-cc  ending in 19k0, 1970 and 1971 for develop-
fo   o;i_o                                                                                E duca tion
noo  p-nnd-coio  ree-t    nef   oohr fI io   dauehcercaw               will11  hear           Adjusted enro. llmen~t retic - primary school - iEnrolet of all ages as pee-
In Inoeu  reproductieperiod if nb.oeine    eco    c-peii                                    erg    fpieyshool-age popoletiem   i-eludec children aged 6-11 pears
fertily neoco.ucully fivy-eu  averages ending in i960, 1979 and 1975                             bet adjusted for different lengths of primary eduction; for coutries with
/ndencop           ....c.lo.                                                                   coivereal adoes.tion, enrollment nay eoceed 10072 sines  oe  pupile are balan
Onytinio cond  rte fT) - to-I - Cmpound -con-aI grouch rates of nid-yser                       cr above the official sehoe1  ge..
cpulat.ion for 1950-60, 1960-70 aod 1970-75.                                                   Adloa ted enre'lasnt rati   -se-ondare sehool - C=sputd ae shov; secondary
PoPolanto-  rconth rate (2) - orhnc  :-Coputed lib  growh rate of totaleduca.tion requires at leaset fear years of approved prixary isatr-tion;
oplno;different dfOinitis of orban areas may offect cmparabiliny of                        provides general, vamc.ional or teac.her tr-ining in cruneions. for popila
-au  00g  outris..                                                                             of 12 te 17 years of age;crrpod ecussae generally ..n.oIded.
moo   e_oion (U. of tcca1) - canto of uban t  nocl .1popUlatma; different                     Yoors of scheoliss erovided (first and second levels) - T.tat1 Years of
leltin    f onhac areas may   fect capabil ity of dta among eanecris.                     schooling; en secondary level, vocaciemal inatrueti- may be partially en
completely secluded.
.agmocncooo (emet)      hildee. (I-b4 yoa-l, aerking-age  (15-64 peace),                   Poctional enrolimeet  % of senondare   - vocational fcenicelo... lenlede
aolre Inl   ) yur  ud0cr5  parc-cof- of nid-near popalanion.                               cechnicel, indleNrIa  or  tchr prograen  which oper..ne icdnpeodentl,  tS
ALe dec--nc   naco -7fanlo of popola toc onden 15 aod AS and cvr no th..a                           doparonoent  of secondary institociona.
co  5 tbnooch A4R..rt                                                                   Adlt   nre  aef.    ticreteado1ns  febi e tarred and -1-) e  tn
-'cunt decoocenatie -  aR.io af popouolcti    ndt IS and 65 edoven           oceeno   oa   di  population eged 15 years end over.
ohb11r foco ic age fnr-p of 15-64 yaes.r
Font! elno lc-aceenra (omoltive tho) -Co_oltios nuhe  of -opeore                     csn
-rlcoeI de-ie-   -oder  -pices of ranional1fami ly plnnn  progra                      Pesmec neonm (arba) - Average nmber of pereane pee rose ic occopied
;cooynoo.                                                          t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~monotmional dwsllinga  in erban ara;d,elicge e-.ld ecnpemne
oa-n1n i-u...e fT. of earnied woene) - Pnrcensg-e of caried  -ass  of                        nroc tones and aoccapisd prrs..
-Trace an (1-Rb  oan) eho ec hirth-conce-1 danices tc all carried                 Oc-peoid- dwsline wi thant eleaPd waterif2) - Oc-cpied  -ovetional dwellings
it  a ea cc  roop.                                                                   in urban sod cral arses  _ibat           d   or outside piped eater f-cilities
asper..etags of all ecepied dwellings.
KUI=rie     `~                                                                                    .nme c   electricity f%  f aii dvsllnS.) - toC-ntio..al dwellings with
''u1l bcbo  tv-. ~nbh-ead) - tEonooioelly a-tin- pe-rson, inalading armed                          elactricity in Wivig quareers as percent of total dwsllings in urben and
Co-e  an   nniyd boo  Islding ho..se.iv-, sodenta, see..; definitionsrea   rers..
nic tooniea are non coparable.                                                      Rora1 dwellings  --neted to s1setricity(I    Ceepoted as shov  for crsr.
Laorone io acnico1tore (7    - Ngricultot1 labor force fin farming, forestry,                   dwellings only.
co and  ishig) as percentagepo   otlishr  ars
l',_P"ye  (7.o  labor farce)   U- Ioom pd ae  saly defieed as persons who                        cosme-tion
ae al   c   lIIng no take aJob, eon af a Job on    given day, remained out                    Radio receivers lest than pee) - All types of reesi-er  for radio broadn..sts
oh  ad   neho  work fera  pe-ified nininm  period cot ...o.eding one                         ccS.. gnral public per thesand of papaletion; encladee olicens..d reesiva rs
-rch...a coo he  -p-erble between ov_ntriee due no dlffereen definieions                         in c-trnis and in pears when rsg.tsrsti-on f radio sets was in effect;
ofo,I    oe   adsoo   fdens  e.g.  emlomnt office atetienice, sasple                             daca far recen.t years say sac be cepereble elne east eaetrnise ah1iisbnd
er acoPulco__ napIynsen, in-urecon          "licens.ing.
Paenercrefmeta nn2    Passenger cars comprise mact- cars seating
I-ncoe die--ib-tnio P-ero    tge of pri;ceo iccome fboth i  cas h aed kind)                        ie   han eighe persoa  eacldes embol..ees, haaraee and etlitary
re-efod bn  ibo  St..5%  cchee  202,, porect 207%, erd poorest 40% of bha-.evehicle..
holds.                                                                 c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~isennicir, fkvc/vr pre tee)   A-..Ioa  consumption of induetria1, nsril
public and pri-tre electricity in kilowatt banns per c-pits, genera lip
DotnItotlo of and ewenrebp e-  Per--ng- of Iund osed by woalrtheen  107.                           hased an prodocnion data, vitboat alwnefar lases. to grids hot sCion-
o-d pooes  101  f io         ore.                                                                tag far  pnpre ssd report  of  I--retiriy.
ewNo nintL  idke/yr net can   - Per -apita .-..aI   -aption ie kilagras
AHal oh  -od tN-iniaetiae   free datitP prduetia  plus net ipeerts of  -ewprle.t
foeniunlee teP by" cio P       opacet-   diolded by euh- of pr-cticing
pit-totoo   -ooi fied from a nadie-I uch-o  aair 1           Itini.-I



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 21
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET 1/
Actual                      Estimated      Growth Rates    Share of GDP
1970      1974       1975       1976         1977           70-77             1976
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(TL Billion, 1976 Prices)
Gross Domestic Product                423.5      557.8      607.7     659.0        695.0               7.3           100.0
Gain from Terms of Trade                -2.3       1.5       -0.4        0.0         -0.3
Gross Domestic Income                 421.2      559.3      607.3      659.0        694.7              7.4           100.0
Exports (g + nfs)                      21.8       34.5       29.6       36.1         32.0             5.6              5.5
Imports (g + mfs)                      31.4       71.5       81.2       85.0        96.7             17.4             12.9
Resource Balance                        -9.6     -37.0      -51.6      -48.9        -64.7                              7.4
Investment                             79,5      118.3      145.8      156.0        165.7            11.1             23.7
Consumption                           353.6      476.5      513.5      512.0        593.9             7.7             83.8
Domestic Savings                       67.6       82.8       93.8      107.0        104.6             6.4             16.2
National Savings                        73.8     104.7      114.0      118.0        113.7             6.4             17.9
B.  SECTOR OUTPUT                                       Share of GDP (factor cost)
Agriculture                             30.0      27.4       27.9       28.5         25.5             4.4
Industry                               26.9       28.1       27.7       27.1         27.9            10.7
Services                               43.1       44.5       44.4       44.4         46.6             9.0
C.  PRICES (1976 = 100)
ERport Prices (in dollars)             44.1       87.6       92.5      100.0        107.4            13.6
Import Prices (in dollars)             51.1       83.3       93.7      100.0        108.3            11.3
Terms of Trade                         86.3      105.2       98.7      100.0         99.1
GDP Deflator                           34.4       73.4       85.4      100.0        125.0            20.2
Av  Exchange Rate ($1.00 = TL)          11,5      13.9       14.4       16.1         18.0
D.  PUBLIC FINANCE                                         As percent of GDP
Central lovt. Revenue                  19.9       17.1       20.3       20.7         22.6
Central Govt. Expenditures              22.5      18.6       21.7       22.4         26.6
Public Sector Deficit 2J/                m         3.7        5.4        5.8          6.6
Est.
E.  SELECTED INDICATORS                                   1970-77                          F.  LABOR FORCE                                    1965    1970    1975    1977
ICOR                                                    3.19                               Civilian Labor Force (million)                 12.9    13.8    15.6    16.4
Import Elasticity                                       2.38                               Unemployment 6 Underemployment (% of CLF)   9.7    11.9    13.0    13.3
Average National Slving Rate                            0.18                               Civilian Employment (million)                  12.5    13.1    14.3    14.9
Marginal National Saving Rate                           0.16                                 Of which (7):
Investment/GDP                                          0.22                                       Agriculture                            74.3    67.1    60.8    57.7
Imports/GDP                                            0.11                                        Industry                               11.2    13.7    16.1    17.5
Resource Balance/GDP                                    0.05                                       Services                               14.5    19.2    23.1    24.8
1/ Totals nay not add up because of rounding.
2/ Borrowing requirement of central government plus State Economic Enterprises and other public authorities.
May 11, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 21
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(In Current US$ Millions)
Actual1                           Est.
1970       1972       1974       1975       1976       1977
A.  SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exporta and NFS                              760       1100       2123       2139       2835       2557
2.  Imports and NFS                             1132       1790       4121       5191       5657       6496
3.  Resource Balance                            .372       -681      -1998     -3052       -2822       3939
4.  Net Factor Service Income                    193        643       1253       1152        691        549
a.  Interest (net)                          -47        -62       -102       -124       -217        -317
b.  Workers' Remittances                    273         740       1426       1312        983        982
c.  Profits                                 -33        -35        -71         -36        -75       -116
5.  Transfers (net)                                8         30         27         20         30
6.  Balance on Current Account                  -171         -8       -718      -1880      -2101      -3391
7.  Private Direct Investment                     58         43         88        153         27         67
8.  Grant end Grantlike Flows /                  117         55         58         98        133         76
9.  Public M&LT (gross)                          337        304        269        322        362        310
10.  Amortization on Public M&LT                 -197       -127       -156      -147        -182       -214
11.  Public M&LT (net)                            140        177        113        175        180         96
12.  Short-term  Capital (net)                     18        332         60        840       1443       2363
13.  IMF                                           48        -98         -         197        149         -
14.  Capital n.i.e.                               -24         65        -32         -          55         -
15.  Changes in Reserves(-- increase) 2/         -186       -566        431        417        114        349
B. LOAN COMMITMENTS
Total Public M&LT                           487       453         533         589       1206
a.  IbRD                                     40       177         228         158        237
b.  Other MuLtilateral                      132        29           -           3         54
c.  Governments                             268       184          149        180        574
d.  Suppliers and Financial Institutione  47           27           28       219         316
e.  Others                                    -         36          68         29         26
C.  M&LI EXTERNAL DEBT                                                                                     Est    PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT          Outstanding
!s.    (Disbursed Only)            Dec. 31, 1977
1.  Total Debt Outstanding                      1840      2448        3097       3180       3536       4221                              Amount   Percent
(end of the period, DO)
2.  Interest                                      42        64          93        104        123        162   IBRD and IDA                 766       18.1
3.  Amortization                                 135       166         141        145        151        188   Other Multilateral           553       13.1
4.  Total Debt Service on M&LT Debt              177       230         234        249        274        350   Governments                 2426       57.5
5.  Debt Service Ratio 3/                                                                                      Financial Institutions       320        7.6
a.  Debt S-rvice/txports NFS                 23.2      20.7         11.0       11.6        9.71      13.8 Suppliers' Credits           105        2.5
b.  Debt Service/Exports NFS and                                                                          Others                        51        1.2
Workers' Remittances                     17.1      12.4         6.6         7.2       7.2       10.0
TOTAL M&LT DEBT            4221      100.0
6.  Terms:
Interest DO&D/Total DO&D                      2.3       2.6         3.0         3.0       3.5         3.8
Debt Service/Total DO&D                        9.3       9.2         6.0        7.8        7.7        8.3
7.  IBRD DO&D/Total DO&D                           2.8       3.7         6.5        9.0       15.7       18.1
IBRD Debt Service/Total DO&D
Debt Service                                3.2       5.0         9.1       12.4       14.8       20.5
1/ Mostly imports with waivers.
2/ As reported by country sources and is different from IFS (IMF) figures, except for 1977.
3/ Represent debt service obligations only on M&LT DO&D, excludin>g debt service on short-term obligations.
May 11, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 21
ECONOMIC BACKGROUND, CURRENT SITUATION AND FUTURE PROSPECTS
Introduction
1.        In most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good. As the result of a strong commitment
to rapid growth and modernisation, real output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Great strides have also been made towards meeting
the basic needs of the population in such areas as education, health care,
water supply, and rural roads. However, employment has never been at the
fore of the objectives of successive Governments. Overall, this impressive
economic progress has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970 and 1977) by severe
balance of payments crises, which have been the product partly of extraneous
factors and partly of Turkish development strategy itself, which has paid
insufficient attention to the structural weaknesses of the economy, and has
perhaps exacerbated some of them.
Structure and Structural Problems
2.        Since its inception, the Turkish Republic has laid great stress on
industrialization. The rise in the share of the industrial sector in total
output from about 15 percent in 1955 to about 28 percent in 1977 is largely
a reflection of the priority which it has been given in the allocation of
investible resources. Agricultural development has been relatively slow, but
it still contributes about a quarter of total output. However, inappropriate
subsidy and pricing policies also led to misallocation of land use (away from
grazing to crops, and among different crops), and to insufficient improvement
of dryland farming, which is the main type of agricultural activity in the
country. Production has also been constrained by inadequate implementation
of irrigation schemes and ineffective extension services. As a result, and
although the modern subsector of agriculture in irrigated regions and coastal
zones is reasonably efficient, agricultural labor productivity is on average
only about one fifth of that in industry.
3.        Turkish industry, moreover, is itself on average not especially
efficient, much less competitive by international standards. One reason for
this, is that a strong emphasis has been placed in recent years, on large-
scale capital-intensive investment projects. This has been viewed as the best
way to accomplish a rapid transfer of sophisticated technology; but it has
resulted in heavy recurrent import oriented industrialization, with very high
cost of production in ceritain subsectors, which have had to be heavily pro-
tected from foreign compeitition by quotas and tariffs. It has also aggravated
a growing surplus of labor. Some parts of Turkish industry, by contrast, are
efficient, and many have the potential to become efficient. But the rather
unselective way in which protection has been applied and the buoyancy of the
domestic market, tended to limit the evolution of the sector beyond the infant
industry stage. More generally, it has inhibited the development of an indus-
trial structure well suited to Turkey's comparative advantages in terms of
location, natural resources and labor availability.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 21
4.        Turkey has a mixed economy.  There is a large and flourishing pri-
vate sector, officially encouraged by a variety of investment incentives.
However, a leading role in implementing the heavy industry strategy has been
played by State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), which dominate the transport and
power sectors, and account for half the output of mining and manufacturing.
The SEEs are expected to pursue social as well as economic objectives, espe-
cially in regard to pricing, investment and employment decisions. This has
led to poor financial performance, which in turn has been a major contributor
to large public sector deficits in recent years. The efficiency of the SEEs
has been impaired also by shortages of managerial and technical staff as a
result of uncompetitive remuneration.
5.        It is tentatively envisaged that Turkey will join the European
Economic Community in the 1990s. To date, however, Turkish foreign trade
policy has emphasized self-reliance and import-substitution, first in consumer
goods and more recently in basic industries. One important consequence of
this, as well as of the pattern of industrialization outlined above, has been
that Turkey has failed to develop a large industrial export base. Instead, it
has relied mainly on its traditional agricultural exports (supplemented by
workers' remittances) to finance the imports of machinery and materials neces-
sary to accomplish its industrial transformation. This pattern of trade has
been a major cause of the difficulty which Turkey has experienced in reconcil-
ing rapid growth with a viable external payments position.
The Third Plan: Targets and Performance
6.        The somewhat checkered record of Turkish economic development is
exemplified by the events of the past five years (1973-77), which coincide
with the period of the Third Plan. The Plan envisaged growth of GDP at 8
percent (compared with under 7 percent achieved in the Second Plan period);
the share of investment in GDP was projected to rise from 19 to 23 percent;
the current account balance was expected to improve as a result of faster
growth of exports and increased workers' remittances; and hence there was to
be a reduction in the inflow of foreign capital, which was to be matched by a
rise in domestic savings, especially in the public sector. Unemployment was
expected to increase somewhat; but inflation was to be held to moderate
levels.
7.        As regards growth and investment, the achievements of the Third
Plan period were fairly close to these targets. The average annual increase
in real GDP was over 7 percent; and the average share of fixed investment in
GDP was above 20 percent. But in other respects, Plan targets were not met.
The public sector, instead of saving more, went progressively further into
deficit; the rate of inflation rose to over 30 percent; and the current
account deficit, rather than declining, increased enormously, which pre-
cipitated an acute foreign exchange crisis in 1977.



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 21
8.        In succeeding paragraphs, economic developments in Turkey since 1970
are analyzed in greater detail. An assessment is also attempted of the future
prospects of the economy, with particular regard to, (a) the measures recently
taken by the government, and (b) other measures needed to achieve and sustain
an improvement in performance.
Production, Investment and Employment
9.        A conspicuous feature of the recent growth in Turkey, unlike almost
every other country, is that it accelerated during the world recession. The
average annual real rate of GDP growth in the period 1970-73 was under 7 per-
cent; in the period 1973-77, it rose to nearly 8 percent.
10.       Part of the explanation for this is to be found on the demand side.
Reduced exports and the increased outflow of payments for oil both tended to
dampen demand for domestic output after 1973; but this was more than offset
in Turkey by the expansionary effect of a rising public sector deficit. As a
result, the growth of output was not, as in many countries, constrained by
lack of demand, but was determined by supply side considerations.
11.       Of these, the most important (in terms of explaining the increase
in the growth rate after 1973) was a marked improvement in the performance of
agriculture, as a result of favorable weather and good harvests in 1975 and
1976. Thus agricultural output, which had grown at an average annual rate of
2 percent in real terms during the period 1970-73, grew at an average annual
rate of 7 percent in the period 1973-77, despite zero growth in 1977. Indus-
trial output grew no faster after 1973. But it maintained the average real
growth rate of around 10 percent which it had achieved up to 1973, principally
as a result of the sustained high level of prior industrial investment.
12.       The pace of investment in Turkey, moreover, did not slacken during
the world recession. On the contrary, from 1975 onwards, as may be seen in
the public fixed investment figures in Table 1 below, the government intensi-
fied its investment drive (although the rate of realization of investment
plans declined). This increase in public investment was paralleled by
higher investment in the private sector in response to buoyant demand, easy
credit and generous tax incentives.



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 21
Table 1: RESOURCES AND EXPENDITURE
(Percentages of GDP) /1
Est.
1970     1973      1974      1975      1976      1977
GDP                           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Imports (g + nfs)                7.4      9.8      12.8      13.4      12.9      13.9
Total Resources             107.4    109.8    112.8    113.4    112.9    113.9
Gross Fixed Investment          17.6     18.1      18.5      21.0      22.1      22.6
Public                        9.3       8.9       8.8      10.4      11.4      12.1
Private                       8.3       9.2       9.6      10.6      10.7      10.6
Stock Changes                   1.2       0.8       2.7       3.0       1.5       1.2
Consumption                    83.5      83.7      85.4      84.5      83.8      85.5
Public                       12.0      14.1      13.5      12.7      12.8      14.6
Private                      71.5      69.5      71.9      71.8      70.9      70.8
(Gross Domestic Savings        16.5      16.3      14.6      15.5      16.2      14.5)
Exports (g + nfs)               5.1       7.2       6.2       4.9       5.5       4.6
(Resource Gap                   2.3       2.6       6.6       8.5       7.4       9.3)
/1   Totals may not add up because of rounding.
13.       In 1977 itself, the growth rate of real GDP declined, to about 5
percent. This was in part a reflection of the zero growth rate of agricul-
tural output. In addition, the growth of non-agricultural output was adversely
affected by a decline in the rate of capacity utilization as a result of,
(a) shortages of electricity aggravated by malfunctions in the already over-
stretched generation and transmission system, (b) a prolonged strike in the
metal-working industries, and (c) ad hoc import restrictions imposed by the
previous coalition government in response to the foreign exchange crisis,
which led to shortages of imported inputs.
14.       The favorable performance of Turkish production during the 1970's
was not matched by employment. While Turkish labor statistics are by no
means infallible, it would appear that urban and rural unemployment and
underemployment stood at a relatively high level (12 percent of the civilian
labor force) in 1970, and have since risen somewhat to over 13 percent in
1977. This increase is in part attributable to a drop in the annual rate
of emigration from Turkey from over 100,000 in 1973 to about 14,000 in 1977.
The main causes of the high level of unemployment in Turkey, however, antedate
the world recession. They are:



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 21
(i) A rapidly growing labor force, reflecting a rising participa-
tion rate and a rate of population growth (2.5 percent per
annum) which, whiLe similar to that in other countries with
Turkey's level of per capita income, is high by comparison
with other Southern European countries.
(ii) The adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of
production both in agriculture and in industry, largely as
a result of government policy, expressed in public sector
investment plans and private sector investment incentives.
External Trade
15.       The most notable feature of the crisis of 1977 was the large
resource gap, which amounted to almost $4 billion. But this did not arise
overnight; Turkey's trading position (as seen in Table 1) had been worsening
for several years. From 1970 to 1973, the resource gap fluctuated around an
average of about 3 percent of GDP. But it rose to over 6 percent in 1974; it
averaged about 8 percent in 1975 and 1976; it was over 9 percent in 1977.
16.       Part of the reason for this deterioration was an increase in the
Turkish economy's propensity to import. The ratio of imports to GDP (as is
shown in Table 1) rose steadily from about 7 percent in 1970 to about 10 per-
cent in 1973. In 1974, it jumped to 13 percent; by 1977, it had reached 14
percent. The sharp rise in 1974 was caused mainly by the increase in the
price of oil, which alone has added between 2 and 3 percentage points to the
import propensity. The remainder of the rise in the import propensity is
attributable to: (a) the increasing relative importance of the industrial
sector, which relies quite heavily on imported inputs; (b) the investment
drive of recent years, which has increased the share of fixed investment
(much of which involves imports) in total expenditure; and (c) a general
liberalization of import restrictions.
17.       The increased import propensity accounts for roughly half the dete-
rioration of the resource balance since 1973. The remainder is attributable
to poor export performance. Up to 1973, the rising propensity to import was
more or less offset by an increase in the ratio of exports (of goods and
non-factor services) to GDP. Subsequently, however, the growth rate of GDP
increased somewhat, while the growth rate of exports declined sharply. In
dollar terms, Turkish exports grew during the period 1970-73 at an average
annual rate of 31 percent; during the period 1973-77, the average annual
growth rate was only 10 percent; in 1977, the absolute value of exports
actually fell.
18.       Year to year movements in Turkish exports are inherently erratic,
given the high share of agricultural products with their climatically depen-
dent supply. But the weak; performance of Turkish exports over the whole
period 1973-77, which was manifested in industrial as well as agricultural
products, had other causes:



ANNEX I
Page 10 of 21
(a) One was the inefficiency of the agricultural price support policy,
whereby prices which are announced after the harvest bore little
relation to world prices, and did not provide rational economic
incentives to farmers. This long-standing problem was compounded
during this period with exceptionally ineffective administration
of agricultural export sales.
(b) Another important factor was the world recession. It not only
affected Turkey's industrial exports, but also depressed Turkish
agricultural exports which consist mainly not of staple foods, but
of luxury foods (nuts and fruits) and industrial raw materials
(cotton and tobacco).
(c) Industrial exports in particular were adversely affected by a more
rapid inflation of production costs in Turkey than in its trading
partners, which was not fully compensated for by exchange rate
adjustments. As a result, Turkish producers were obliged either to
raise their prices in export markets, thus reducing the demand for
their products, or to accept a cut in their profit margins, thus
reducing the attractions of production for export as compared with
domestic sales.
(d) This tendency for potential exports to be diverted to the domestic
market was probably exacerbated to a significant degree, especially
in 1976 and 1977, by aggregate excess demand in the domestic econ-
omy.
Current Account, Overall Balance, and External Borrowing
19.        The widening resource gap after 1973 was more than fully reflected
in the current account deficit (which rose from $0.7 billion in 1974 to about
$3.4 billion in 1977), as a result of a decline in workers' remittances.



ANNEX I
Page 11 of 21
Table 2: SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ Millions)
Est.
1970     1973      1974      1975      1976      1977
Exports (g + nfs)               760      1725     2123      2139      2835      2557
Imports (g + nfs)              1132     2348      4121      5191      5657      6496
Resource Balance            -372      -623    -1998    -3052    -2822    -3939
Workers' Remittances            273      1183      1426     1312       983       982
Other FSI and Transfers         -72       -75     -146      -140      -262      -434
Current Account Balance   -171         485      -718    -1880    -2101    -3391
Private Direct Investment        58        27        88      153        27        67
Gross Public M&LT               337      411       269       322       362       310
Amortization on Public M&LT -197        -107      -156      -147      -182      -214
Other (net) /1                  117       102        58      250       133       583
Overall Balance              144       918      -459    -1302    -1761    -2712
Financed by:
Reserve Changes
(- = increase)            -186      -728       431       417       114      349
Convertible Lira Accounts             -237        60       975       787       198
Other Short-term Funds        42        47       -32       -90       860      2165 /2
/1   Includes imports with waivers, program credits, acceptance credits (for
1977) and other M&LT funds.
/2   Includes mainly commercial arrears of $1,507 million and other short-
term liabilities.
20.        About 838,000 T'urks (5 percent of the labor force) work abroad.
Between 1970 and 1974, as may be seen in Table 2 above, their remittances
increased in money terms by a factor of five. Subsequently, though, remit-
tances tended to fall significantly; in 1977, they were at only two-thirds of
their 1974 level. One important cause of this decline has been the restric-
tions imposed on immigration by Western European countries in the face of
growing unemployment. But the rate at which foreign earnings are remitted
has also fallen substanti'ally, despite various efforts to increase the attrac-
tiveness of making remittances such as interest rate incentive and import
privileges. This fall is believed to be partly a reflection of hedging
against devaluation of the Turkish Lira, and partly of remittances being
diverted into the black market in response to overvaluation of the lira.  It
may also reflect the increasing proportion of migrant workers who have been
allowed to bring their families to join them, and the declining proportion of
relatively recent migrants, a category who might be expected to have a rela-
tively high propensity to remit.



ANNEX I
Page 12 of 21
21.       The decline in workers' remittances was the more significant, be-
cause it occurred in a period of rapid world inflation and at a period when
the Turkish economy was expanding rapidly. In 1973, workers remittances
financed 50 percent of the import bill; by 1977, this figure had dropped to
15 percent.
22.       The rapidly rising current account deficit was not matched by an
increased inflow of medium and long-term external capital. As a result of a
strong desire for economic independence, Turkey has deliberately kept foreign
private investment to a minimum, and official borrowing has been the main
source of medium and long-term external finance. But as may also be seen from
Table 2, the level of official borrowing in gross money terms exhibited little
or no trend during the 1970's, and averaged about $350 million per annum.
This, given the great increases in world prices and in the level of investment
and production in the Turkish economy, has meant a large decline in the rela-
tive contribution of official borrowing to Turkish foreign exchange needs. In
1970, official long-term borrowing financed 30 percent of imports; by 1977
this figure had dropped to a miniscule 5 percent.
23.       Official medium and long-term borrowing stagnated because its
growing need was not fully anticipated, which in turn is attributable to
the Third Plan's rather optimistic forecasts concerning exports and workers'
remittances. But it also reflects, especially in the latter part of the
period (when the need for more external finance was all too apparent), lack
of a dynamic approach towards mobilizing the needed long-term credits. Since
the early 1970's, Turkey has relied heavily only on three official sources of
external capital - Germany, the European Investment Bank, and the Bank. Until
recently, it took little initiative in seeking other official sources of
finance (including the Arab states); its comparative inexperience in the open
market and reluctance to utilize the services of experienced investment firms
as many developing countries did with success, also hampered its limited
efforts to tap commercial sources of medium and long-term funds. Since 1975,
the level of medium and long-term loan commitments, especially from Russia and
Eastern Europe, increased significantly. But most of these commitments have
been tied to specific projects, whose implementation has been slow, and thus
the rate of disbursement from official sources has not risen appreciably.
24.       The upshot of these changes in the relative importance of workers'
remittances and official borrowing, in conjunction with the widening resource
gap, has been a rapid deterioration of the overall balance of payments since
1974. Between 1970 and 1973, the overall balance had been in surplus, and the
reserves had risen very substantially, mainly as a result of the rapid growth
of workers' remittances. In 1974, the overall balance went into deficit, and
by 1977 the deficit had risen to $2.7 billion; and the cumulative deficit from
1974 to 1977 amounted to $6.6 billion. This deficit was financed in part from
the reserves accumulated prior to 1974. Between 1974 and 1977, the reserves
declined by a total of $1.3 billion. At the end of 1977, they stood at a
level of $770 million, equivalent to only one and a half month's imports. The
remainder of the cumulative payments deficit, amounting to some $5.3 billion,
was financed by short-term borrowing of one sort and another.



ANNEX I
Page 13 of 21
25.       The single most important source of short-term credit was the con-
vertible lira accounts (CLAs), which provided a total of nearly $2 billion
during 1975 and 1976. These are deposits with Turkish banks by foreigners
and non-resident Turks, which until recently were guaranteed agailnst exchange
rate risk by the Central Bank, and which offer an interest rate (latterly a
spectrum of interest rates according to maturity) set roughly at Eurodollar
rates. Various other types of short-term loan were also obtained. During
1977 foreign lenders, apprehensive of such extensive short-term financing of
long-term investment, and doubtful of Turkey's ability to meet its foreign
exchange commitments, became reluctant to extend further substantial loans.
The Central Bank was thus driven to delaying payment for imports on a large
scale which of course made it even harder to obtain credit by conventional
means.
Public Finance
26.       The enlargement of the public sector deficit, as noted earlier, was
instrumental in maintaining the rate of growth (and thus widening the resource
gap) in the period after 1973. In assessing the reasons for this, it is not
sufficient to consider the activities of the central government alone. It is
necessary instead, especially since the financial deficits and surpluses of
State Economic Enterprises are entangled with the consolidated budget of the
central government, to consider the public sector as a whole. The relevant
data are set out in Table 3 below. Since 1972, the excess of public sector
investment over public sector savings has increased in money terms by a factor
of twelve. In relative terms, as the Table shows, the public sector deficit
has risen steadily from about 2 percent of GDP in 1972-73 to about 9 percent
of GDP in 1976-77.
27.       This increase in the public sector deficit is attributable mainly
to a deterioration in the financial position of the SEEs, and in particular
of the operational (as distinct from the financial) SEEs. Successive govern-
ments, in an effort to slow inflation and avoid unpopularity, held SEE price
increases below the rate at which SEE costs were rising. They have also
increased agricultural support prices at such a rate that the Soil Products
Office (the operational S]EE mainly concerned with implementing the price
support policy) has been unable to cover its costs. These policies have
caused operational SEEs to make heavy losses. In addition, the previous
governments greatly escalated the level of SEE investment. The net effect
has been a very rapid widening of the gap between SEE savings and investment.
As a result, and although the non-SEE-related elements of the consolidated
budget have contributed a modest surplus (partly as the result of a determined
effort to improve the efficiency of tax collection), the size of the public
sector deficit in relation to GDP has quadrupled in the past five years.



ANNEX I
Page 14 of 21
Table 3: PUBLIC FINANCE
(TL Billions: fiscal years)
Est.
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
CONSOLIDATED BUDGET
Tax Revenues                   39.9    51.4    65.0    95.0   126.1   172.5
Other Revenue                    7.9     6.9      5.1    11.5    15.1    18.4
Total Revenue                47.8    58.3    70.1   106.5   141.2   190.9
Current Expenditure            24.2    28.7    40.0    59.3    78.6   108.0
Investment Expenditure          8.8    11.6    18.0    22.0    33.6    52.3
Transfer Expenditure /1         19.5    24.6    18.3    31.6    40.7    62.8
Other Expenditure /2             1.0    -0.6      3.2     5.7      5.9    10.7
Total Expenditure            53.5    64.3    79.5   118.6   158.8   233.8
Surplus/Deficit /3             -5.7    -6.0    -9.4   -12.1   -17.6   -42.9
STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
Gross Profit /                  4.1      5.2      5.8     4.4    -14.5  -19.8
Fixed Investment                10.7    12.1    15.3    26.2    34.9    40.5
TOTAL PUBLIC SECTOR
Surplus/Deficit /3 /5          -6.2    -6.2   -18.5   -31.7   -53.3   -77.0
(Deficit as % GDP) /6          (2.7)   (2.1)   (4.5)   (6.1)   (8.1)   (9.5)
Financed by:
Foreign Borrowing (net) /5      2.6      3.0     3.4      4.3     7.9      1.3
Central Bank /5                 1.3      0.2     8.8    12.0    32.8    58.2
Other Domestic Borrowing
(net) /5                      2.3      3.0     6.3   -15.4   -12.6    17.5
/1   Current and capital transfers, including transfers to SEEs.
/2   Advance payments minus deferred payments.
/3   Borrowing requirement.
/4   Operating SEEs only.
/5   Figures for 1974 and earlier years are staff estimates based on incomplete
data.
/6   GDP for calendar year.
Money and Credit
28.       On average in recent years, Turkish governments financed only a small
part of the public sector deficit by the issue of bonds--one important reason
for this being a ceiling on interest rates, which has made it hard to attract
lenders. Most of the deficit, as may be seen in Table 3, has been financed by



ANNEX I
Page 15 of 21
borrowing from the Central Bank, which raised the money supply both directly
as well as indirectly by increasing the reserves of the banking system.  The
decline since 1-74 in foreign exchange reserves has had a damping effect on
the money supply. NonetheLess, as may be seen in Table 4 below, the large
public sector deficits have caused the money supply to grow at an average
annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974 and 1977.
TabLe 4: MONEY AND CREDIT /1
(TL Billions:  end-year)
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976    1977
LIABILITIES OF THE BANKING SYSTEM                                         September
Money, of which:                    53.6   71.2   90.5  119.1  152.5   190.0
Currency in circulation           16.0   20.7   26.2   32.9   42.5    63.2
Demand Deposits                   37.6   50.5   64.3   86.2  110.0   126.8
Quasi-Money                         18.3   20.8   25.0   30.4   34.2    37.1
Other Items (net)                   25.5   31.7   36.7   59.3  102.0   125.2
Total Liabilities                   97.4  123.7  152.2  208.8  288.7   352.3
ASSETS OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
Foreign Assets (net)                21.4   31.5   24.8   13.1   15.0        4.2
Domestic Assets, of which:          76.0   92.2  127.4  195.7  273.6   348.1
Credit to Public Sector           20.3   20.0   28.7   56.7   91.1   139.8
Credit to Private Sector          55.7   72.2   98.7  139.0  182.5   208.3
Total Assets                        97.4  123.7  152.2  208.8  288.6   352.3
CENTRAL BANK                                                               December
Credit to Public Sector             19.9   20.1   28.9   55.7   84.3   149.1
/1   Totals may not add up because of rounding.
The rate of credit expansion by the banking system to the private sector has
also been high, but is estimated to have declined from 41 percent in 1975 and
31 percent in 1976 to 20 percent in 1977, which may reflect the decline in the
real rate of growth of output in 1977.
Inflation
29.       Of the several imperfect Turkish price indices, the best is probably
the general index of wholesale prices. This reveals that Turkey, like other
countries, experienced a rising rate of inflation up to 1974, when the index
rose by 30 percent. In 1975, the rate of inflation fell to 10 percent; however
subsequently (and in this respect the experience of Turkey has differed from
that of other countries), it rose steeply to 25 percent in 1976, 35 percent
in 1977 and accelerated in early 1978.



ANNEX I
Page 16 of 21
30.       Excess aggregate demand has been the main cause of the acceleration
of inflation in the last two years. For the rise in the public sector deficit,
in conjunction with the increase in private investment which it stimulated (in
part by expanding the availability of credit), caused an increase in aggregate
demand well beyond the amount needed to offset the damping effect of reduced
exports and an increased import propensity. The consequent upward pressure on
the price level was aggravated in 1977 by import restrictions, which reduced
the output of goods requiring imported inputs, and diverted demand to domesti-
cally produced goods that were already in short supply.
31.       Taking a somewhat longer view of inflation in Turkey, one should not
overlook three important sources of cost-push. One is increases in the legally
prescribed minimum wage. A second is the union movement, which now covers more
than half of all non-agricultural workers and which has aggressively and suc-
cessfully fought for large money wage increases in recent years. The third
is the agricultural price support policy, by which Turkish governments in an
explicit effort to maintain the relative level of farm incomes, have in recent
years decreed very large increases in the prices of agricultural products
(although an effort to check the speed of these increases was made in 1977).
32.       On the other hand, however, inflation in Turkey after 1974 cannot
be attributed to the cost-push influence of import price rises. For the world
rate of inflation has been well below the Turkish rate, and (as mentioned
earlier) the Turkish exchange rate has not fallen by enough to close the gap;
as a result, import prices have risen more slowly than domestic prices and
have thus tended to damp down the rate of inflation in Turkey.
Summary of the Causes of the Present Crisis
33.       One important cause of the crisis of 1977 was the fourfold rise
in the price of oil in 1974, which raised the Turkish propensity to import.
Another external cause was the world recession, which directly reduced the
growth rate of Turkish exports and indirectly reduced the flow of workers'
remittances. But Turkey's trading position was already structurally weak;
and the external pressures on it were compounded by inadequate management
of agricultural export sales and an inappropriate exchange rate policy. In
addition, the crisis was aggravated by inability to develop and tap fresh
sources of medium and long-term external finance.
34.       A major cause of the crisis, however, was that despite the world
recession, the growth rate of the Turkish economy did not fall, and indeed
rose, after 1974. As a result, the increased propensity to import was
reflected in a more than commensurate increase in the absolute level of
imports. In this respect, Turkey behaved in a different fashion from most
other countries, whose governments, faced with the same problems of an
increased import propensity and sluggish exports, caused (or allowed) their
growth rates to fall in order to keep down the level of imports, thus alle-
viating the deterioration of their trade balances. The reasons why the
Turkish economy continued to grow, while others did not, were partly fortui-
tous, in the form of good harvests. But they also reflect the basic Turkish



ANNEX I
Page 17 of 21
commitment to rapid growth. This was most strikingly visible in the increased
scale of public fixed investment from 1975 onwards, which stemmed largely from
a desire to accelerate the pace of economic development. This intensification
of the public investment effort, because of increased gestation lags and a
decline in the rate of capacity utilization, had little direct effect on the
growth of output. But because it was not matched by an increase in public
savings, it caused a great: expansion of aggregate demand.
35.       These adverse but interrelated causes have combined to produce a
very difficult economic situation. The current account deficit in 1977 was
$3.4 billion, and the overall balance of payments deficit was also sizeable.
There is a desperate scarcity of foreign exchange; the reserves in December
1977 were down to $770 million. Prices are rising at more than 30 percent per
annum, while the rate of capacity utilization and the level of employment are
falling.
Short-Term Policy Measures
36.       To alleviate the present foreign exchange shortage without extreme
disruption of the economy, external financial assistance will clearly be
vital. Measures to boost exports and restrict imports will be necessary to
accomplish this; but they will not be sufficient. It will also be necessary
to restrain consumption and/or investment; this will require a reduction of
the public sector deficit, which should also serve to moderate the pace of
inflation.
37.       Certain preliminary steps in the direction of a stabilization policy
were taken by the last coalition government of Mr. Demirel in the course of 1977.
Applications for licenses for non-essential imports were refused and other
applications were delayed. Import deposits were raised by up to 20 percentage
points, depending on the type of import. The lira was devalued by 10 percent
in September, and by a further 5 percent in December. Large increases were
made in September in monopoly prices and in a number of SEE tariffs and
prices, which, it is estimated, will yield additional revenues of about TL 26
billion annually (equivalent to 3 percent of 1977 GDP). In addition, negotia-
tions were entered into with the IMF, but no agreement had been reached before
this government resigned on December 31.
38.       The new government, formed by Mr. Ecevit in mid-January, proceeded
to formulate its own economic stabilization package prior to resuming negotia-
tions with the IMF on thLe Standby Agreement, which was subsequently negotiated
and finalized in March with relatively minor changes. As a part of the pack-
age announced after the Parliamentary approval of the annual Program, the lira
was devalued in March by an additional 30 percent, to a rate of TL 25 per US
dollar (although the eff.ect of this adjustment on exports will be offset to
some degree by a substantial lowering of tax rebates on most exported commodi-
ties). The stamp duty on imports has been increased, which is expected to
discourage imports and to increase public revenues by about TL 20 billion per
annum. Most non-agricuLtural interest rates have been raised by about 2 per-
centage points; import licenses and travel allowances have been further
restricted, as have imports with waiver and imports financed by acceptance



ANNEX I
Page 18 of 21
credits; the exchange rate guarantee on future (though not existing) CLAs has
been abandoned; and the minimum term of future CLAs has been raised to one
year. Further substantial tax and SEE price increases are expected.
39.       As regards investment and growth, the new government's stated short-
term intention is to cut back on new investment projects, except in the energy
sector, and to concentrate on completion of existing projects, while endeavor-
ing to increase output mainly by fuller use of existing capacity. The Annual
Program for 1978 envisages that real GDP and real investment will both grow by
about 6 percent, while real aggregate consumption will gross by about 2 per-
cent. The consolidated budget for FY1978, approved at the end of February,
envisages government expenditure of TL 265 billion, which is expected to be
about the same in real terms as in FY1977, though about 20 percent higher in
money terms. The Annual Program assumes that imports of goods will be reduced
from $5.8 billion in 1977 to $5.0 billion in 1978; exports of goods are
expected to rise from $1.8 billion to $2.6 billion, partly through sales of
existing stocks of cotton and wheat. It is also assumed that workers' remit-
tances will rise from $1.0 billion to $1.3 billion, and that the 1978 current
account deficit will be reduced to $1.45 billion.
40.        Despite the determination of the new government to tackle the eco-
nomic crisis, it would appear that some of the targets of the 1978 Annual
Program may not be attainable. In particular, it is not clear that the
planned volumes of output, investment and consumption can be achieved, given
the programmed cut of about 20 percent in the volume of imports. And even
this reduced level of imports will be possible only on relatively optimistic
assumptions about the availability of external finance, especially in view of
the very large stock of outstanding short-term external financial liabilities.
Longer-Term Problems and Prospects
41.       Even after the introduction of major policy changes concerning
balance of payments and domestic demand control, the management of the external
payments position in 1978 is likely to prove difficult. The key objectives
should be to reduce the backlog of arrears, to roll over many of the other
short-term obligations as they fall due, and to begin gradually to convert the
bulk of the short-term debt into medium and long-term debt. To accomplish
this restructuring, it will be essential, from 1978 onwards, for Turkey to
pursue actively all available external sources of medium and long-term funds,
and (by improving project implementation) to accelerate the pace at which loan
commitments are translated into disbursements.
42.       The Ecevit government is making a determined effort to raise new
medium and long-term foreign capital. However, if growth is to be achieved
at around the past trend rate, and future external payments crises are to be
avoided, it will be necessary to bring about certain structural changes in
the economy and avoid repetition of certain past patterns of policy. Con-
siderations of this sort, some of which are outlined below, might have some
weight in the forthcoming Fourth Plan, which is now scheduled to be finalized
by end 1978.



ANNEX I
Page 19 of 21
Exports and Imports
43.       It is of the utmost importance to improve the performance of Turkish
exports, both agricultural and, especially, industrial. A necessary condition
for sustained rapid growth of industrial exports is a competitive exchange
rate, which will require,, in addition to the recent devaluation of the lira,
further regular adjustments sufficient to compensate for any significant
excess of the Turkish inflation rate over the rate of inflation in Turkey's
principal trading partners. It might also be necessary to initially tilt
the balance of industria:L investment to give somewhat less weight to basic
industries and a greater weight to more export-oriented industries such as
textiles, clothing, food processing, leather products, wood products, and
light engineering. Export-oriented investments by the private sector should
be encouraged by a competitive exchange rate, but they should be further
encouraged through the allocation of import licenses and credit, and by
governmental support of export insurance, promotion and technical assistance
schemes. Industrial exporting, moreover, need not be confined to the private
sector; the government should divert a proportion of public investment into
this type of activity.
44.       Steps will be needed to increase agricultural exports, mainly
through further increases in agricultural productivity. This would require
completion of existing irrigation projects, an increase in the resources
devoted to farmer support services, and better coordination among the public
agencies concerned with agriculture. Agricultural exports, in particular,
could benefit from revision of the price support policy in such a way as to
provide stronger incentives to increase the production of exportable commodi-
ties, and reform of agricultural export sales procedures. On a different
front, greater effort is necessary to increase foreign exchange earnings
through development of the tourist industry which, despite a tremendous
potential, has been given practically no attention to date.
45.       To reconcile reasonably rapid growth with a viable external payments
position through improved export performance will be easier, if the world econ-
omy recovers quickly from its recession and the present spread of protectionism
is checked. This reconciliation can partly be assisted by measures to keep
down the economy's propensity to import; but a large reduction cannot be
expected, given that Turkish imports consist overwhelmingly of oil, materials,
and capital goods. A greater recognition of the scarcity of foreign exchange
in the selection of investment projects should have a beneficial effect, as
should maintenance of a competitive exchange rate, continued restrictions on
inessential imports, and increased attention to more efficient methods of
import substitution.
Resource Mobilization and Demand Management
46.       In 1978 and 1979, the measures necessary to recover from the present
crisis will probably cause the annual growth rate of real GDP to fall, on
average, to around 3 or 4 percent; but for the remainder of the Fourth Plan
period, a higher growth should be possible. Exports and investment will need
to grow faster than GDP, while imports must be restrained; thus, consumption



ANNEX I
Page 20 of 21
will have to grow more slowly than GDP, during 1979-83. This will entail a
significant increase in the domestic savings ratio.
47.        It is unlikely that much of this increase can be brought about by a
rise in private savings, although the allocation and use of private savings
could be improved by increased interest rates and other measures to channel
private savings into the financial system. The remainder of the increase in
the aggregate domestic savings ratio will need to be accomplished by a rise in
the relative level of public savings. Since the social development strategy
of the Turkish government will probably preclude more than a small reduction
in the growth rate of public consumption, increase in public savings will
require an increase in the growth rate of public sector revenues through:
increasing and maintaining the operating profitability of the SEEs; widening
of the coverage of the agricultural income tax; a tightening of business tax
exemptions; the introduction of a value added tax; and an increase in municipal
rates and user charges. Such measures to keep down the public sector deficit
will not only restrain consumption to a level consistent with external equi-
librium; they will also restrain aggregate demand to a level consistent with a
moderate rate of inflation, although to achieve this it will be necessary to
contain the various domestic cost-push pressures noted earlier, possibly by
some form of social contract or incomes policy.
Unemployment and Income Distribution
48.       Apart from the external payments position, another major problem of
Turkish economic development in the medium and long term, is the rising level
of unemployment and underemployment. In the long run, some reduction in
unemployment can be expected from a decline in the population growth rate.
But in the next two decades, since emigration on the scale of the early 1970s
is unlikely to be resumed, the level of unemployment will depend crucially on
the rate at which new jobs are created in Turkey, which makes it desirable to
maintain a high aggregate growth rate. It should also be possible to increase
the level of employment through somewhat greater emphasis on less capital-
intensive commodities and techniques of production. In this regard, the
accelerated development of export-oriented industries, which tend to be com-
paratively labor-intensive, might be beneficial. In addition, it would be
advantageous more generally to modify investment and subsidy policies in
industry and agriculture in such a way as to reduce their bias towards capital-
intensive technology.
49.       While basic needs are largely met, the distribution of income in
Turkey. by comparison with other developing countries, appears rather unequal
(althoug'a it seems to have improved somewhat since the late 1960s). One of
the Drincipal causes of this inequality is the large gap, between agricultural
and no -agricultural incomes, which parallels the gap between labor produc-
tivity in the respective sectors. Greater emphasis on agricultural development
should therefore improve income distribution. Political constraints will make
it difficult to bring about greater equality of agricultural land ownership.
But the difference in income between rich and poor farmers, which is the other
principal cause of inequality in Turkey, could be reduced by changes in subsidy
and pri_e support policies, and by increased attention to the development of



ANNEX I
Page 21 of 21
the relatively backward dry-farming sub-sector. Likewise, the need to increase
public sector revenues in the next few years should not be incompatible with a
restructuring of the tax system in such a way as to make it more irogressive,
while the government's policy of providing for basic needs througn public
expenditure should continue to reduce the inequality of living standards
relative to the inequality of incomes.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
50.       The extensive short-term borrowing of the past three years has
greatly increased Turkey's external debt, has given it an unattractive maturity
structure, and has caused a sharp rise in debt service payments. At the end
of 1977, the country's total external indebtedness amounted to approximately
$10.0 billion, of which about $5.8 billion was short-term. The remaining $4.2
billion was mainly public and publicly guaranteed medium and long term debt.
Of this, about one third was held by international organizations, mainly the
Bank ($0.8 billion, plus $0.6 billion committed but undisbursed) and the
European Investment Bank; and about one half by foreign governments and gov-
ernment agencies, notably those of the United States, West Germany, Canada
and Russia. In 1977, debt service payments (including interest on short-term
debt) amounted to 15.0 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services
plus workers' remittances.
51.       The first objective of a prudent debt management policy should be
an adequate restructuring of the short term liabilities. A determined medium
and long-term borrowing efEfort during the next few years should restore a
satisfactory balance between short and longer-term debt. But despite the
Government's current restructuring efforts, a substantial increase in debt
service payments is inevitable. The debt service ratio can be expected to
rise to about 23 percent in 1978 and peak at anywhere between 30 to 40 percent
in the early eighties, depending on the rerolling and restructuring terms
ultimately agreed to by commercial banks and other bilateral creditors and
export financing agencies. In these circumstances and until the outcome of
the restructuring negotiations as well as the strategy of the Government in
its Fourth (1978-82) Development Plan becomes available, it does not appear
meaningful to venture firm projections on growth, balance of payments or debt
service. However, if as the new Government intends, Turkey pursues sound
medium-term and debt mana[gement policies and shows the same seriousness as
it has shown in its short-term policies since assuming office, and as the
financial consequences of the recent crisis are gradually remedied, the debt
service ratio should decline after reaching a peak in the early eighties.
Although a tight balance of payments situation is likely to remain a medium-
term feature of the economy, Turkey would continue to have a substantial
borrowing capacity for medium- and long-term funds provided the present
short-term debt is restructured on adequate terms and future short-term
borrowing is strictly conatained. However the situation will need to be
carefully watched and evaluated as soon as a more concrete basis for doing
so becomes available.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1978)
Loan and
Credit                                                         (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number                                                          Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and nine credits fully disbursed                  255.1    96.8
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Education                  13.5              4.5
762-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Fruit and Vegetable    10.0                  3.4
257-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Fruit and Vegetable                15.0      0.2
281-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Irrigation Rehab.                  18.0      1.6
817-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Steel Mill Expansion   76.0                  5.9
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Water Supply  37.0                 13.7
324-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Urban Dev.                  2.3     0.7
845-TUa/ 1972   IGSAS                   Fertilizer Industry    42.0                1.0
330-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Livestock II                       16.0      5.6
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas            44.0             40.1
360-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas                    30.0      0.5
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Power Dist.   14.0                  4.5
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway Railway Project            46.7             13.0
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey    Antalya Forestry           40.0              8.2
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                 Elbistan Power          148.0             96.2
1024-TU   1974   DYB                     Industry                 40.0              8.5
1078-TU   1975   TSKB                    Industry                 65.0             11.8
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey    Rural Development          75.0             62.9
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit       54.2             45.0
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                70.0             40.6
1L265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey    Livestock III             21.5             21.1
1194-TU   1976   TEK                     Power Transmission II  56.0               56.0
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey    Tourism                    26.0             25.7
1379-TU   1977   DYB                     Industry                 70.0             70.0
1.430-TU   1977   TSKB                   Industry                 74.0             68.3
Total                                    1278.0  178.1   619.0
of which has been repaid                126.3    3.8
Total now outstanding                    1151.7  174.3
Amount sold                  3.6
of which has been repaid  3.6           -0-     -0-
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/        1151.7  174.3
Total undisbursed                         610.4    8.6   619.0
a/ Includes $18.0 million approved on April 15, 1976
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments



ANTNEX II
Page 2 of 2
STATUS OF BAN-K GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVEST1,ENTS
(As of April 30, 1978)
Fiscal                                           Amount in 'US$ N-illion
Year      Obligor        Type of Business       Loan      Equitv    Total
1964      TSKB           DFC                      -        0.92     0.92
1966      SIFAS I        Nylon Yarn             0.90       0.47     1.37
1967      TSKB II        DFC                      -        0.34     0.34
1969      TSKB III       DFC                      -        0.41     0.41
1969      SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn             1.50       0.43     1.93
1970      Viking I       Pulp and Paper         2.50       0.62      3.12
1970      ACS            Glass                 10.00       1.58    11.58
1971      NASAS          Aluminum               7.00      *1.37     8.37
1971      SIFAS III      Nylon Yarn             0.75         -      0.75
1971      Viking II      Pulp and Paper           -        0.05     0.05
1972      SIFAS IV       Nvlon Yarn                        0.52     0.52
1972      TSKB IV        DFC                      _        0.43     0.43
1973      TSKB V         DFC                   10.00         -     10.00
1973      Akdeniz        Tourisn                0.33       0.27     0.60
1974      Borusan        Steel Pipes            3.60       0.44     4.04
1974      AKSA           Textiles              10.00         -     10.00
1975      Kartaltepe    Textiles                1.30         -      1.30
1975      Sasa           Nylon Yarn            15.00         -     15.00
.975      Aslan          Cement                10.60         -     10.60
1975      DOKTAS         Steel                  7.50       1.37     8.87
1975      TSKB           DFC                   25.00       1.22    26.22
1976      NASAS          Aluminum               1.58         -      1.58
1976      TSKB           DFC                   25.00         -     25.00
1976      Asil Celik    St:eel                 12.00       2.18    14.18
1977.     BORUSAN        Steel Pipes              -        0.16     0.16
Total Gross Comnitments            144.56      12.78   157.34
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
exchange adjustments, repayments  78.18       3. 00    81 18
and sales
Total Commitments now held by IFC  66.38        9. 78    76,16
Total Undisbursed                     1.59       2.34     3.93



ANNEX III
Page I of 2
TURKEY
NORTHERN FORESTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
project:                                 Three years (1974 to 1977)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:           Bank and FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program, based on a forestry
survey financed by UNDP
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:         November 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review
project:                                 April 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:          October 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:              May 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           September 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program arranged for two consultants to
assist the Ministry of Forestry (MOF) in preparation of specifications and
bidding documents for equipment and machinery in February 1978 to enable
invitations to bid to be issued soon after negotiations and award of contracts
shortly after signing of the loan agreement.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The full-time professional staff of the Forest Planning and Project
Monitoring Unit (FPMU) will be increased to at least 12 persons
(paragraph 43).
(b)  In the event that the funds accruing to the Revolving Budget of MOF's
General Directorate of Logging Production and Forest Management (OGM)
prove insufficient to finance the project, the Government will allocate
all other funds necessary for this purpose (paragraph 41);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Import licenses will be issued promptly to all successful bidders
(paragraph 47);
(d) FPMU will include a forecast of requirements for wood supply for each
of the major user categories, including the General Directorate for
Forest Industries (ORUS) and the State Economic Enterprise for Pulp and
Paper (SEKA), in the annual work programs (paragraphs 43 and 46);
(e)  The preparation of the annual work programs for each forest conservancy
will be coordinated by FPMU and they will be submitted to the Bank for
review and comment prior to mid-August of the year preceding implementa-
tion (paragraph 43);
(f)  Thirty forest management planning teams will be established in the proj-
ect area no later than September 1980 (paragraph 44);
(g) Vehicles and equipment reserved for local procurement will be purchased
in accordance with the project schedule (paragraph 47); and
(h)  Internationally recruited technical specialists will be employed (para-
graph 45).






IBRD 13330
25                                                        30-35-                                                                                                              40'                                                       JANUARY1
B U L G A R I ABI a ck                                                                                                        5 e a
*     me      li irIneo ou                                                                            Sino                                                                                   U     S.  S.  R
D          =                         Ml~~~~~~~~~~~~onguld 
-                        ~~~~~~~~Do6u azo
6L '-, MfereI                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R   A    N
t35e M e dliJe r r a n e a n   Sea                                                                                          K                               NORTHERN FORESTRY PROJECT                                                              35
CYPRUS                                   S Y R I A  PROJECT AREA AND BASMUDURLUK LOCATIONS
North Turbey proiecf oreo                                    
Project oreo boundary                                                                                                                                       40
W    Proeer umtt hreafquarters o                                       
*     Booa-mudUriUi heodquorters                                                                                                               POLAND)b
QD-    Bosm          nBudurin bounoodtes
Majo;t:or forested oress                                                                                                                       zyi (CK                              
A    Site otf Blikesir newsprint project                                                                               HI_          ~             ,K,,-  ._.~NX                     ,,< ,r
*     Site of Akdeniz forest utilization praject                    _                                                                                                   -4?  
Main roands                                                                                                 Jr                                                                           I 
| | " Railways                                                             /                                                                <p      BOMANIA                   Sek  A    ITE   Ain
Ana~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
TheBeesdtirmudu- Isssieune ofittAMAOYA, KAOTAMONU andslo / S2BAIANOP2  rTs
Nave teen nealigBned sirtt thistnaw was deedr wn,?s  ._ j7                                                                 _r                                                  ,-
o                    r0o0                 3 0 ersaanar has                                                                                    NORTrE NOdStRY tPROJ ECT Ank ra5
Project area boundory    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ardaoU strOlOnet fr40
KILOMETERB                                                                                         theuokheadqetunaertohers  the rar oh.                          TU 0KNEY)
0  d0r0uk b     0        300                                                                      rrdarieanc ne sh    hRssunshnta          Ta                                                                          i
A    MSLeEo Badlikensir                                                                                       thprinta praojaca
*    Site of Akdeniz forest utilizatioann arnsrt oranyendosprojectYIA -RA
internationql boundaries5                                                       sacepanensshdsrares~                                                                   )  



