Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20554
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(36030; 3603A)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$63 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR
PROJECT ID: P004599
L/C NUMBER: 36030/3603A
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
June 29, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (PREM) Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of June 29, 2000)
Currency Unit  Philippine Peso (P)
P1.00 = US$ 0.0232
US$ 1.00 = P43.17
FISCAL YEAR
January I-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAB              -        Affiliated Agent Bank
ACOS             -        Automated Customs Office System
ACPS             -        Andersen Consulting/Philippines Systems
ADB              -        Asian Development Bank
ASYCUDA          -        Automated System for Customs Data Management
BIR              -        Bureau of Internal Revenue
BOC              -        Bureau of Customs
BOT              -        Build Operate Transfer
CAS              -        Country Assistance Strategy
COA              -        Commission on Audit
DBM              -        Department of Budget and Management
DBP              -        Development Bank of the Philippines
DoF              -        Department of Finance
EIRR             -        Economic Internal Rate of Return
ILICR            -        Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report
FIRR             -        Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOCC             -        Government Owned and Controlled Corporation
GOP              -        Government of the Philippines
ICB              -        International Competitive Bidding
IFMS             -        Integrated Financial Management System
IMF              -        International Monetary Fund
ITS              -        Integrated Tax System
IRR              -        Implementing Rules and Regulations
LAN              -        Local Area Network
NEDA             -        National Economic Development Agency
NO               -        National Office
PC               -        Personal Computer
PIU              -        Project Implementation Unit
QAG              -        Quality Assurance Group
RDC              -        Regional Data Center
RDO              -        Revenue District Office
RO               -        Revenue Office
RRO              -        Regional Revenue Office
SGS              -        Societe Generale de Surveillance
SAR              -        Staff Appraisal Report
TCP              -        Tax Computerization Project
TIN              -        Tax Identification Number
UNCTAD           -        United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
VAT              -        Value-Added Tax
WAN              -        Wide Area Network
WTO              -        World Trade Organization
Vice President:                    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:                  Vinay Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Director:                   Homi Kharas, EASPR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Samia Melhem, CITPO



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
Loan 36030/3603A
CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY........
1. Project Data .......................................................I1
2. Principal Performance Ratings ....................                 ....................................I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry ..... 2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs ........................................................       9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome .................................... 18
6. Sustainability .......................................................                             23
7. Bank and Borrower Performance .......................................................              26
8. Lessons Learned .......................................................                            31
9. Partner Comments .......................................................                           34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix .................................... 36
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................           37
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits .......................................................           38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs .............                                                                    40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components .......... 41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................... 42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................             43
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results .....................................................             44
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results ....................................................             45
Appendix 1: TCP's Financial Analysis of Project and related Spreadsheets ......... 59
Appendix 2: BIR's Implementation Completion Report ........................................ 72
Appendix 3: Beneficiary Survey ....................................................                   96
Appendix 4: BIR's Lessons Learnt ....................................................               113
Appendix 5: BOC's Implementation Completion Report .................................... 126
Appendix 6: ILICR  Workshop Participant List and Agenda ............................... 141
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






INTENSIVE LEARNING IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE GOVERNMENT OF PHILIPPINES
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
Loan No. 3603-PH
Preface
The Philippines Tax Computerization Loan to the Government of the Philippines in
the amount of US$63 Million was approved on May 11, 1993 signed on July 15, 1993
and made effective on December 1, 1993. The project was expected to close on June 30,
1999, however it was extended to close six months later, on December 31, 1999.
This Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report was prepared by
Samia Melhem, (CITPO - Task Manager for the loan), Dana Weist (EASPR, Senior
Economist) and Michael Engelschalk (PRMPS, Tax Administration Thematic Group
Coordinator). This is one of the first Intensive Learning ICRs for the East Asia Region.
Mr. Vinay Bhargava was the Philippines country director, and Mr. Homi Kharas the
sector director for EASPR. Mr. Aloysius Ordu (Portfolio Manager), Mr. Bernard Funck
(Country Economist) and Mr. Joven Balbosa (Economist) provided coordination and
support from the field, and reviewed and commented on the report. Mr. Rene Ruivivar
(OCS) reviewed and commented on the document and provided advice on the Intensive
Learning ICR process. Mr. Homi Kharas (EASPR sector director) reviewed and cleared
the report. The team also received useful input and advice from Barbara Nunberg (Lead
Specialist, EASPR). The project team thanks all involved for their participation and
review of the document.
The production of the report would not have been possible however without the
logistical support of Lily Tsang.






Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report
The Government of Philippines
Tax Computerization Project
Loan No. 3603-PH
Evaluation Summary and Recommendations
Project Status Today
1.  The Tax Computerization Project was the largest agency modernization effort ever
attempted by the Government of the Philippines (GOP). It entailed changing manual,
paper-based tax administration to computerized, paperless ones, and training around
8,500 staff on new systems. It improved governmnent services, and affected all taxpayers,
civil society and traders. Finally, it improved communication and information exchange
in each of the beneficiary agencies. Some of the project's objectives are still unfinished
as these involve capacity building, institutional learning, reduction in graft and other
longer-term outcomes that have not been fully realized yet, and for which the GOP needs
additional assistance to leverage existing accomplishments and newly acquired
institutional skills.
Project Objectives
2.   The Philippines Tax Computerization project was designed in 1991 as the GOP
wanted to increase the efficiency of tax administration of its two main revenue agencies:
Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) and Bureau of Customs (BOC). Based on that
objective the project had three components:
(1) Computerization of the BIR Tax Administration System
(2) Computerization of the BOC Customs Administration System
(3) Institutional Strengthening for BIR and BOC staff to operate and sustain the
new computer systems.
Project's Origin
3.  The project, conceived and initiated by the Department of Finance, was designed
and gradually prepared by a joint Technical Assistance Team of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank
The IMF recommended a 5-point reform program to the BIR and an 11-point
reform program to the BOC. These were pre-conditions for the overall tax
computerization loan, which was financed by the Bank and made effective on December
1, 1993.



- ii -
Quality at Entry
4.   Based on what can be concluded today, seven years after the SAR's approval, the
project was much more complex and riskier than originally foreseen especially for BIR.
The SAR:
(a) understated the difficulties of customs software development and maintenance
ventures for the BIR,
(b) was too optimistic about overcoming broader institutional constraints such as
the civil service salaries,
(c) under-estimated the change management needed for an agency modernization
effort of that scale, and
(d) focused too much on Information Technology to the exclusion of tax policy and
administration.
The Bank's performance in project identification, design and preparation was
satisfactory for the BOC component and unsatisactory for BIR.
Achievement of Objectives an Outputs
5.   Against all odds, the project's outcome was satisfactory for all of the project's three
components outlined above. Both BIR and BOC have designed, developed and are
currently using a functional tax and customs administration system. Manual procedures
were redesigned and automated in a software package that tried to model as closely as
possible the processes and workflow in each of BIR and BOC respectively. Some of
these achievements were internationally recognized. For instance, the World Customs
Organization gave an award to BOC in July 1998 for its Customs Computerization
project.
6.   BIR developed the "Integrated Tax Systems" (ITS) with Andersen Consulting. The
ITS, a sophisticated fourteen module application, has been examined by many
Information Technology and Tax Administration experts. One of the latest IMF reports
of December 1999 finds it to be a "world-class" tax system, which many developed
countries would benefit from. In order to utilize the ITS in all its territory, BIR installed a
country wide network linking its Regional Offices, district offices and regional data
centers all together. As of today the ITS is being used in 41 District Offices, 19 Regional
Offices, three Data Centers and the Large Taxpayers Office. Substantial efficiency gains
have been attained since the days of manual operations. However, as of today the
computerization has not yet had significant impact on revenues. We expect the latter to
happen once the ITS's auditing capabilities are fully used.
7.   BIR Ratings: As part of the Intensive Learning ICR process, we looked at, and
rated, each one of the smaller components of the projects. We rated as satisfactory:
(a) development of the Tax Administration software,



-iii -
(b) provision of communication infrastructure,
(c) provision of hardware,
(d) interface with the commercial Banks,
(e) Large taxpayers services,
(f) increase in number of registered taxpayers, and
(g) improvements in the efficiency of tax administration in general.
We rated as unsatisfactory some aspects of the ITS usage, such as some inability
to use the system's Audit capabilities, and the fact we could not clearly demonstrate
computerization did indeed increase collections.
8.   BOC  developed the Automated Customs Office System  "ACOS" based on
UNCTAD's off-the-shelf customs software called ASYCUDA. It did so under a turnkey
contract with Unisys and UJNCTAD. BOC deployed the Customs system in 22 ports
instead of the original seven planned in the SAR. BOC won a worldwide award from the
World's Customs Administration in July 1998. As of today, BOC has attained enormous
efficiency gains from both its intemal re-engineering prior to the computerization work
and from the new system itself. Cargo clearance time, for instance, was reduced from 10
days to a few hours. BOC had a successful partnership with the private sector as traders,
importers, affiliated banks, shippers etc. all got trained and had access to the Customs
software and could locate shipping and taxation information whenever required.
9.   BOC Ratings: We rated all the BOC components as satisfactory. These include:
(a) Development of ACOS in partnership with Unisys and UNCTAD,
(b) provision of a nation-wide network,
(c) roll-out and usage of the customs system,
(d) increase of collections sometimes above targets,
(e) overall re-engineering of the customs procedures, and
(f) partnerships with the private sector to improve trade and customs activities.
10. Institutional strengthening component was rated satisfactory for both BIR and
BOC as an estimated 9,000 staff have been trained in both agencies, a number far above
the SAR training estimates.
Financial Analysis
l1. An in-depth financial analysis of the project was undertaken using the same
assumptions and methodologies of the financial analysis of the 1993 SAR, based on BIR



-iv -
and BOC collections between 1993 and 2000. The project gave a total incremental
collection benefits to the equivalent FIRR of 307%, whereas the SAR's forecasts of
revenue increases amounted to a recomputed FIRR of 210%. Analysis also proved that
the PhP 2.22 Billion present value of project expenditures could be recovered in just one
year by a revenue increase of 1%. Analysis did not include intangible benefits brought in
by automation, procedure simplifications, electronic mail, and overall computerization.
Major Factors affecting implementation and outcome
12. Factors outside the control of government included:
(a) the Asian economic and financial crisis which caused a significant revenue
shrinkage for BIR in 1999,
(b) the limited national telecommunications infrastructure, especially in the early
1 990s at design time, and
(c) rapid changes in office technology equipment, which affected the software
development and the rollout of the system to the regional offices.
13. Factors generally under the government control included:
(a) inappropriate scope and complexity of the project over a short time span of five
years,
(b) frequent leadership changes in BIR, BOC and DoF,
(c) inter-agency communications and coordination,
(d) unstable tax policy environment,
(e) lack of counterpart funds, and finally
(f) lack of attention to the environment for a larger Public Sector Reform.
14.  Factors subject to implementation agency control included:
(a) an excellent transparent procurement process for the turnkey contracts,
(b) cumbersome administrative processes,
(c) lack of a data conversion strategy from legacy systems, and
(d) need to enhance BIR and BOC's reputation in the public's eyes
Sustainability
15. The project is likely to be sustained as the GOP has seen the benefits of the Tax
Computerization as the Philippines is trying to change its government towards a modern,



delivery oriented one. Major obstacles are financial and human resource constraints.
Most of the competent BIR and BOC IT staff generally end-up in the private sector
where their wages are four to five times higher. The other major hurdle to sustainability
are BIR's and BOC's reputation and poor perception by the public; as adverse public
opinion may negatively influence the Congress and DBM's budgetary decisions and
yearly allocations for the Bureaus. Funds to sustain the computerization are around 15%
of the total agency-operating budget according to international standards. Both agencies
have transition arrangements and long-term plans to sustain achievements accomplished
thus far.
Bank Performance
16. The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was
rated unsatisfactory as the project focused almost exclusively on information technology
instead of a tax administration project supporting capacity building in tax administration.
The project also underestimated the difficulties that BIR would encounter in building its
own tax system. However at that time there were no "off the shelf' tax system software
packages and the Bank had no other choice than to recommend BIR contract out the
writing of a customs-based system. Unlike the Thailand Tax Computerization project, the
TCP yielded a satisfactory countrywide software system as was intended. Finally - and
to the project team's credit - there were imminent signs in 1992 that a Salary
Standardization law would be passed. This explains the SAR's optimism conceming the
Civil Service laws and the fact that the SAR expected the human resource sustainability
problem to be resolved in the short future.
17. The Bank's overall performance in lending and supervision is rated
satisfactory as the Bank fought many challenges and succeeded in providing as adequate
as possible software development and tax administration advice despite low budgets and
lack of available expertise in the subject matter. The Bank can be credited for having
designed an excellent procurement process, one of the best managed and supervised in
the sector, again unlike similar projects in East Asia. The Bank has played a crucial role
in facilitating communication and coordination between all affected agencies. The
procurement process of the two turnkey contracts was one of the best managed and
supervised in the sector, again, unlike many similar such projects in East Asia. Towards
the project's end, the Bank increased its supervision frequency with a newly composed
task team including tax administration and public sector experts. The latter was a catalyst
to increased DOF involvement and interest, and accelerated the project's disbursements.
It also raises GOP awareness and support to many of the modernization issues faced by
BIR and BOC, who were pioneers in this field.
18. The TCP was the largest computerization effort ever launched in the GOP. Its
effects are felt at all levels: by travelers filling out a simplified Customs entry form, by
traders importing their goods, by the average taxpayers going to the banks and paying
their taxes and by the large taxpayers who can today pay their taxes on the Internet. Both
BIR and BOC delivered well at preparation and implementation stages, and hence their
performance is rated as satisfactory.



-vi -
Lessons Learned
19. The lessons learned are many for both the Bank and the borrower and are all listed
and described in depth in the report (Section 8).
Most important lessons for the borrower are the need to:
(a) embed Tax Computerization within a broader public sector reform,
(b) balance the complexity and the scope of the achievements,
(c) select a solution to retain the skilled IT staff, and
(d) maintain good communication with oversight agencies (DoF, DBM and
NEDA).
20. The lessons leamed in software development and computerization are the:
(a) need to have good functional specifications designed by users themselves,
(b) essential role of a consistent software roll-out and training strategy,
(c) crucial role of the pilot stage in large software development project, and
(d) need to get taxpayers educated and committed to the new system.
21. Finally the lessons learned for the Bank were to:
(a) avoid software development when an "off the shelf' package exists in the
market,
(b) simplify and train the borrower on the disbursement process,
(c) include a Tax Administration specialist from the start in such a project, and
(d) finance a larger, more comprehensive Change Management and training plan
for the agencies' staff.
Future Operations
22. Despite often adversarial circumstances and high turnover of skilled project staff
the project's outcome is satisfactory as two world-class systems have been developed and
deployed to administer tax and customs throughout the GOP territory. There is much to
be done though in the area of training BIR and BOC staff on the system, notably training
BIR staff on using the Audit capabilities of the ITS. BIR staff is still struggling to use the
basic modules of the new system and need an additional push to master the Audit
module. In turn, the Audit module needs more development to include statistical
population information, profiles of taxpayers, expert system capability to identify
fraudulent returns, etc.



-vii -
23.  BIR, after the project ended, has a shrinking IT budget barely sufficient for
minimum maintenance of its facilities. Identified solutions are costly:
(a) Outsourcing tax administration IT operations to the private sector, a costly
proposition which seems to give BIR the feeling of loss of control of its own
system.
(b) Creating an independent revenue authority for BIR and BOC but that also
requires a total re-organization of both agencies and approvals of the process at the
highest level. And there are major risks in this enclave approach.
(c) A follow-up operation, for BIR only, presented by DoF in December 1999.
24. The objective of the follow-up operation is to help BIR roll-out ITS to all the
district offices, further develop and expand the Audit module, and have all BIR staff use
it in an effort to increase overall revenue collections. This program would also be
accompanied by a series of anti-corruption training for all relevant BIR staff and possibly
could fund a further agency reorganization. We think this would provide BIR the chance
to leverage accomplishments made this far, based on an experienced management team
who has already done the most difficult part of the journey. This follow-up operation
would allow BIR to accomplish the difficult task of using the new system and the
benefits of computerization to really increase collections by going after all the non-
compliant or under-reporting taxpayers.






Project ID: P004599                                Project Name: Philippines Tax
Computerization Project.
Team Leader: Samia Melhem                          TL Unit: CITPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                 Report Date: June 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Philippines Tax Computerization Project.       L/C/TF  CPL-36030; SCL-
Number: 3603A
Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                  Region: East Asia and
Pacific Region
Sector/subsector: BF - Public Financial Management
KEY DATES
Original         Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/18/90                          Effective:  12/01/93        12/01/93
Appraisal:  10/07/92                           MTR:
Approval:  05/11/93                          Closing:  06/30/99         12/31/99
Borrower/Implementing GOVT. OF PHILIPPINES/MIN. OF FIN.
Agency:
Other Partners:
STAFF              Current                             At Appraisal
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum                  Castillo Madavo
Country Manager:  Vinay K. Bhargava                    Kabir Ahmed
Sector Manager:    Homi Kharas                         Vineet Nayyar
Team Leader at     Samia Melhem                        Claudio Femandez
ICR:
ICR Primary        Samia Melhem, Dana Weist,
Author:            Michael Engelschalk
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)    ICR
Quality at Entry: U                   U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



- 2 -
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
I. Project's Objectives:
The main objective of the Philippines Tax Computerization (TCP) Project, according to the
31 March 1993 SAR, was to support improvements in tax administration by providing technical
assistance, staff training, software and priority hardware and facilities, to computerize the
administration of the Bureau of Customs (BOC) and Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR). The
expected result of establishing and operating a modem, computerized and integrated revenue
administration system throughout the Philippines was a more efficient revenue administration,
greater revenue collections, and improved access and potential for audit of tax records. Based on
that goal, the project had three objectives:
1. Computerization of the BIR Tax Administration System
2. Computerization of the BOC Customs Administration System
3. Institutional Strengthening for BIR and BOC staff to operate and sustain the new computer
systems.
11. Background:
The project was designed in 1991, when the Government of the Philippines (GOP) was
seeking to increase revenue to enhance the country's infrastructure and economic development.
The project is consistent with the 1993 CAS objectives of poverty alleviation and improved
public services. Taxes are the main source of GOP revenue (accounting for 85 percent of
revenue), and BIR.'s and BOC's performance is critical to GOP's revenue management.
In 1990, the GOP requested technical and financial assistance from the Asian Development
Bank (ADB), the Intemational Monetary Fund (IMF), and the World Bank (WB) to improve the
buoyancy of revenue collections and enhance resource mobilization. In 1991, the IMF began
providing technical assistance to improve the effectiveness of revenue processes and
administration at the BIR and BOC.  At that time, both agencies were planning future
modernization and computerization activities. The IMF recommended a 5-point reform program
to simplify tax administration at the BIR, including the creation of the Large Taxpayer Division,
and the replacement of the Tax Account Number (TAN) with the Tax Identification Number
(TIN). It assigned tax administration experts from the Fiscal Affairs Department to assist BIR in
implementing aspects of the short and long-term computerization strategies. A second IMF
mission assisted the BOC and developed an 11-point reform program for customs simplification.
Both reform programs were declared as conditions to further Bank/IMF assistance. The ADB
provided a short-term, technical assistance grant (US $600,000) to the BIR to prepare an
information system master plan and to develop a pilot VAT computerization program.
The Bank was asked to provide technical assistance and financing for overall tax
computerization. The Bank anticipated that its assistance would extend over 4 to 5 years and
that its financing would be approximately US $40 million. In 1991, the Bank secured an



$800,000 PHRD grant to prepare the project. The Bank began to articulate the project in a
preparation/pre-appraisal mission in September 1991. The scope of the Project, as described in
the 1991 BTOR, was to: "provide for enhanced resource mobilization activities by: (i)
simplifying and streamlining tax administration procedures; (ii) instituting a unique tax
identification system; (iii) using information technology tools to facilitate and improve tax filing,
processing, collection and auditing; and (iv) developing adequate human resources to improve
the efficiency and effectiveness of tax administration and sustain its computerization."
In early 1992, the three donor agencies (WB, IMF and ADB) envisioned that the project's
components would include: (i) the Integrated Tax System for BIR; excluding the VAT "pilot"
that would be financed by the ADB grant mentioned above; (ii) the Integrated Tax System for
BOC; (iii) an Information System for the Bureau of Treasury (BTr); and (iv) a Management
Informnation System for the Department of Finance (DOF). As the project design was developed,
components (iii) and (iv) were dropped. The proposed project and donor recommendations were
received with considerable enthusiasm and support by BIR, BOC and DOF.
In 1993, the TCP was appraised. The SAR was signed on 31 March 1993; the loan was
signed on 15 July 1993; and the project became effective on 1 December 1993.
III. The Beneficiary Agencies:
The project's objectives were focused on modernizing, in parallel, BIR and BOC. The
DOF also played a critical role in the project. Background on the agencies involved in the
project is included below.
Department of Finance (DOF)
The project was overseen and supervised by the DOF. Both the BIR and BOC are bureaus
within the DOF. The project management committee consisted of a steering group headed by a
DOF Undersecretary, the commissioners and assistant commissioners of the two bureaus, as well
as the project's national directors and the implementing agency (Crown Agents) management
team.
BIR
BIR is responsible for collecting about 80 percent of GOP revenue. It is headed by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue (equivalent in rank to a DOF Undersecretary), and assisted
by two Deputy Commissioners; one for assessment and collection, and one for legal issues and
administration. The BIR has a three-tier structure composed of its Headquarters National Office,
19 Regional Offices (ROs), and 115 Revenue District Offices (RDOs). It also has four Regional
Data Centers (RDCs).
The National Office formulates national policies, planning programs, laws and procedures
and directs the entire internal revenue service. It was reorganized in November 1999, at the
recommendation of the IMF, to create a fully functional Large Taxpayers Service Division and
an Excise Taxpayers Service Division.



- 4 -
ROs set BIR's laws, policies, plans and regulations within a region. They coordinate with
local government units and regional offices of government agencies setting regional standards.
*   RDOs plan and develop programs, methods and procedures for the efficient, effective and
economical assessment and collection of taxes according to the standards set by the BIR
commissioner and the regional directors.
BOC
BOC is responsible for collecting about 23 percent of GOP revenue (as per DoF's report to
the Office of President Office, dated March 1, 2000). It is responsible for facilitating trade,
assessing and collecting duties on imported articles (including VAT) and preventing smuggling.
BOC is headed by the Comnmissioner of Customs, assisted by five Deputies responsible for
administration, collections, assessment, intelligence and enforcement and information systems
and technology. The Office of the Commissioner implements and coordinates BOC's policies
and programs, which are in turn enforced and adapted by District Offices.
The BOC includes a Central office and 14 collection districts: Port of Manila, Manila
International Container Port (MICP), the Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA), and the
district ports of Sann Fernando, Batangas, Legaspi, Tacloban, Cebu, Iloilo, Surigao, Cagayan
de Oro, Zamboanga, Subic and Davao. Each revenue district is authorized to have as many sub-
ports as necessary to maximize revenue collection and minimize smuggling and fraud.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's initial objectives were not changed. Rather, an additional objective - to
improve the communications flow among DOF, BIR and BOC -- was introduced in 1996 based
on rising communication needs. As a result, a Lotus Notes-based electronic communication
system was established for the DOF to communicate with government agencies responsible for
tax collection and fiscal management (BIR, BOC, BOT, the Central Bank, Land Registration
Authority, etc.). The system - called FINLINK - was not included in the initial project
objectives; although early Aide Memoires (dated 1990 and 1991) discussed briefly the need for
linking DOF and the BOT to the new computerized tax system. Project funds were re-allocated
to purchase, install and develop the FINLINK system. This activity was executed by DoF with
the assistance of Project Supervision consultant Crown Agents. Hardware, software and
technical support were supplied by BIR's supplier, ACPS, and BOC's non-computer equipment
supplier Philips Electronics and Lighting. FINLINK cost approximately US$450,000 Except for
this addition, the project's objectives were not revised during the six-year life of the project.
3.3 Original Components.
The Tax Computerization Project was funded through a six-year, US $63 million World
Bank loan, complemented by US $20 million of GOP counterpart funds, with the broad objective
of improving the efficiency and effectiveness of revenue administration. It was organized
around six main components: (i) BIR equipment, (ii) BIR software and hardware, (iii) BOC
equipment, (iv) BOC Hardware, (v) BOC software (U7NCTAD's ASYCUDA system), and (vi)
common consultancies. During the project's life, several reallocations were made to the project



- 5 -
components. The initial and final allocations (approved by the Bank in March 2000, and based
on the GOP's request to cancel $3 Million from Category 2) are included in the table below.
The Project's 6 Component Categories in the loan agreement (Schedule 1) are detailed as
follows
Component Category                           Amount of the WB Loan Allocated
(Expressed in Dollar equivalent)
Original     Revised
(1) Goods under Part A of the project (BIR)         $2,300,000    $2,078,481
(Vehicles, Video conferencing equipment, etc.)
(2) Computer hardware                               $37,600,000   $34,539,657
(Hardware and software licenses purchases, site preparation,
and software under Part A.2 of the Project (BIR) and
Computerized Tax System software development)
(3) Goods under Part B.4 of the project (BOC)       $1,400,000    $2,505,000
(Vehicles, Video conferencing equipment, etc.)
(4) Computer hardware                               $14,100,000   $11,885,000
( Hardware and software licenses purchases, site preparation)
under Part B.2 of the Project (BOC)
(5) Computer software                               $2,200,000    $2,565,000
(ASYCUDA licenses and customization costs)
under Part B.3 of the Project (BOC)
(6) Common Consultancy Services                     $5,400,000    $6,426,872
(Crown Agent Services, Change Management & Training
programs)
Total                                         $63,000,000  $60,000,000
3.4 Revised Components:
During the project's life, several reallocations were made to the categories. The latest,
approved by the Bank on March 2000, and based on the GOP's request to cancel $3 Million from
Category 2 (BIR Turnkey system) and US$1,669,670.11 which remained undisbursed in the
Loan Account, provides the latest components of the project as follows:
Total Amount                                        US$58,330,329.89
Amount canceled effective March 7, 2000             US$ 3,000,000.00
Amount canceled effective May 22, 2000              US$ 1,669,670.11
Original Loan Amount                                US$63,000,000.00
The BIR turnkey system used US $39.7 Million of the WB funds instead of the original amount
of US $42.7 million.



- 6 -
For details on the revised categories allocation please refer to the "revised' column in the
category allocation table, section 3.3
3.5 Quality at Entry:
I. SAR's Risk Assessment (1993):
The March 1993 SAR identified the following two potential project risks (SAR, section
4.17):
*   Procurement Process: The SAR noted that awarding a large contract for computer
hardware and software was technically complex, controversial and subject to political pressure.
The SAR noted that these risks would be minimized during project implementation by the
rigorous qualifications proposed for the two turnkey contracts.
*   Staff Retention: The SAR noted: "there is still a risk that the BIR and BOC may not be
able to retain adequately trained and qualified staff to operate the much-expanded computer
system. However this risk is lessened by: (i) the massive training programs included in the
project; ii) the supplier initially operating the system and (iii) the potential to extend the
assistance if needed." The SAR mentions in section 3.18 " Because of low government salaries a
relatively high turnover of systems analysts is expected. Thus Congress is considering a bill to
establish "confidential positions" (higher salaries not regulated by Civil Service rules) which
would solve the problem. Nevertheless, the project includes provisions for replacing and
training highly qualified recent graduates if they agree to stay with the Tax Administration for a
couple of years".
II. Retrospective Assessment (2000)
Based on what can be concluded today, seven years after the SAR's approval, the project
was much more complex and riskier than originally foreseen. The project's outcomes depended
on several factors and events; some of which were outside of the beneficiary's control and
jurisdiction, and most of which were not reflected in the initial design. These include:
implementation of the Comprehensive Tax Reform, launched in 1997, as well as a broad
range of legislation, policies and institutional improvements, and passage of various laws and
legislation by Congress,
assuring coordination and communication among many institutions directly involved
(DOF, BIR, and BOC) and indirectly involved (Department of Budget and Management for
budgetary approvals, the Banking community, BOT, the Judiciary etc.),
providing continued, strong leadership by BIR, BOC and DOF, despite frequent changes in
senior management,
managing the dispersal of numerous project components over many areas,



- 7 -
*   overcoming the frequent turn-over of Information Technology (IT) staff due to
impediments in the civil servant law,
*   managing an International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement process,
*    overcoming the limited capacity to absorb the project, new office automation, technology,
processes and tax software,
*    changing the culture and behavior of Filipino taxpayers towards voluntary compliance, and
-    assuring operational budget for BIR and BOC to sustain and improve the developed system
and infrastructure after the loan's closing date.
Based on our reading of the SAR, it
*    understated the difficulties of custom software development ventures for BIR, and assumed
that well-written procurement specifications would guarantee a good end product. Worldwide
experience in systems development (including the WB's own experience) shows this assumption
to be naive and simplistic. Software development projects are often highly risky and very
difficult to achieve and sustain successfully. It is notable that the BOC's better outcome in
comparison to BIR stem in large part from its use of an existing package (AYSCUDA++
developed by UNCTAD) rather than developing a system from scratch.
*   focused too much on information technology to the exclusion of tax policy and
administration. For example, the project design did not require that re-engineering, process
innovation and form re-design occur prior to computerization. Nor did it consider the impact of
potential tax policy changes on the IT system. The project design also did not include incentives
for using the IT systems as management tools.
overestimated the GOP's ability to absorb and sustain a complex system. In retrospect, the
project could have been sequenced better, with the BIR system development phased in tranches,
fewer pilots conducted and the project extended over a longer time frame. Sustainability in
terms of continuous leadership over the project life and the need for adequate budget to maintain
and improve the system was also not emphasized in the initial design.
under-estimated change management needs and the enormous training and facilities
budget needed to train 14,000 staff over five years.
too optimistic about overcoming broader institutional constraints, especially the
limitations associated with non-competitive civil service salaries and standards for technical
staff, and rigidities in the budget system. A modification of civil service compensation rules for
BIR and BOC IT positions should have been a pre-condition to the loan.
In summary, the Bank's performance in project identification, design and
preparation (quality at entry) is judged unsatisfactory for the BIR component and
satisfactory for the BOC component.



-8-
The Bank provided significant and effective inputs into developing the BIR project but its
objective was too ambitious and the project was too complex. In some ways, these problems
reflect the Bank's limited experience at that point in time (1990) in providing technical
assistance for large-scale software development efforts, and off-the-shelf software applications
did not exist. If the project were to be appraised today, the risk assessment and project design
would be substantially different. Notably, greater emphasis would be placed on an integrated
program of policy, administration and technology reforms; the project would be phased in more
manageable components; and greater effort would be spent on supervision. Based on the
weaknesses noted above, and in light of the fact the BIR component financing constituted two-
thirds of the overall project, we find the quality at entry to be unsatisfactory in this project.
We rate quality at entry to be satisfactory for the BOC component as the appraisal
identified an "off-the-shelf' solution for BOC and hence BOC was spared problems incurred
when writing a large application from scratch. BOC could rely on the UNCTAD team of
developers for assistance, and focused its efforts on deploying, training and using the Automated
Customs Software system in a timely manner. BOC still faced staff retention problems but these
were foreseen and discussed at length.
III. QAG Review
An August 1999 Quality Assurance Group (QAG) study found, in its rapid supervision
assessment, that the project's design and planning were weak in their appraisal of the borrower's
implementation capacity and unrealistic in the time frame to achieve its objectives. The project
was rated poor for institutional capacity building and seen as an information technology project
that was detached from any over-arching master plan for public sector reform. The project's
supervision was also found unsatisfactory.
We concur with some of these findings: the initial design was flawed and quality at entry
was unsatisfactory for BIR. However, knowing what we know today, the project might not have
been approved in 1993. The overall impact and effect of the project on the borrower was good,
its outcomes were satisfactory and the project was well worth the investment according to our
financial analysis. The project and its associated learning were critical for the GOP, which is
better off today with a world-class tax software system essential to move the country to the next
phase of economic development. The project's last supervision mission and the Intensive
Learning ICR missions gathered the right mix of inter-disciplinary expertise and were quite
successful. Cross-disciplinary teams should be required in the design and supervision of other
similar projects.
IV. Overall Public Sector Issues
The QAG review found that the project was unlinked to broader public-sector reform
initiatives, which is accurate. While problems of staff retention and poor compensation were
highlighted, other issues related to the need to rationalize the expenditure management system,
remove system-wide bottlenecks, strengthen judicial and legal institutions, and promote
transparency and accountability were not. Addressing these systemic problems was beyond the
scope of the project, and, while it was unintended at the outset, the project did serve as a pilot of
sorts in modernizing selected aspects of the public sector and highlighting the need for more



-9-
systematic reform. For example, the BOC's approach was seen to be the first - and most critical
-- step in an effort to reduce corruption in public administration, and introducing information
technology as a means to improve service delivery was piloted in the BOC and BIR. The
limitations associated with the Salary Standardization Law were clearly highlighted in this
project. Future loans of this kind should be approached in the context of an overall public sector
reform, for reform-minded governments ready to take ownership of a complex project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As noted, the project objective was to improve tax administration in the Philippines by
providing technical assistance; hardware and software; priority equipment and facilities; and
staff training to the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) and the Bureau of Customs (BOC). The
project included two large, distinct and parallel activities: (i) creation, development, testing and
roll-out of an Integrated Tax System (ITS); for BIR's National Office, 41 Regional District
Offices (RDOs), and 19 Regional Offices (ROs); and modernizing and strengthening BIR by
training its staff on the newly created ITS and related office automation systems; and (ii)
customization of the ASYCUDA Customs software for BOC; rollout to the main office; the
Manila and Mactan airports and four main seaports; as well as modernizing and strengthening
BOC by training its staff on the ASYCUDA software and other, related office automation tools.
As mentioned in Section 3, two important activities were not explicitly mentioned in the
project's SAR: (i) the need for each agency; to modernize, reorganize, and reengineer business
processes prior to computerization; and (ii) the need to improve the quality and efficiency of
communication among BIR, BOC, and DOF. As the project progressed, the GOP realized that
these activities were crucial to the success of the project, and modified the project's work plan to
include them. Although significant changes were made to the project design, implementation
and schedule for BIR, the project objective did not change.
In the light of the project outcomes -- notably, two functional computer systems for BIR
and BOC, staff trained in their use, and enhanced awareness among the GOP, taxpayers and
private sector -- we rate the project as satisfactory in achieving its objective.
4.2 Outputs by components:
I. BIR Tax Computerization:
The computer system for BIR was developed from scratch as no "off-the-shelf' tax
software existed that fit the bureau's requirements. In addition to developing the software, it was
necessary to purchase hardware, build communication infrastructure, and modernize buildings to
accommodate wiring, network devices and computers. The Tax Computerization Project (TCP)
was therefore a formidable project for both the BIR and the Government of the Philippines
(GOP)- which had never before implemented a computerization project of that scope and
magnitude. Before the TCP, most BIR processes - including collection, consolidation, audit and
tax payer records -- were manual. Millions of taxpayer records were in paper form and stored at
their respective RDOs. With the ITS, it is estimated that the BIR processes 5 million tax



- 10-
payments yearly and receives about 8 million monthly, quarterly and annual tax declarations.
Substantial efficiency gains have been achieved and several of the expected project outcomes
have been attained. However, as of today, the computerization has not yet had a major impact on
revenues.
Development of Tax Software Application: The ITS was developed from scratch and has
been completed as a comprehensive tax software system. The IMF commented in December
1999 that, "...many countries, including some developed ones, would welcome the opportunity
to have such a computing infrastructure and a comprehensive suite of application systems to
carry out their tax administration work." The ITS's 14 modules were developed by Andersen
Consulting and Philippines System (AC/PS) under a turnkey contract. During the life of the
project, 14 Steering committees were organized, staffed by BIR and AC/PS staff in order to
develop and rollout the respective ITS modules. ITS has been perceived as too complex and
feature-rich for the GOP tax administration process, but this is mostly due to insufficient
training. Nonetheless, based on the successful development and implementation, we rate this
outcome as satisfactory.
Provision of Communication Infrastructure: The project created a private, Wide Area
Network (WAN) for the BIR, which is the most modem communication infrastructure for a
single agency and largest private WAN extending across the Philippines. At present, 5 Data
Centers, 19 Regional Offices and 41 RDOs are computerized and running the ITS. These
distributed sites had to be prepared, wired for communication and supported. Networking
equipment (switches, hubs, routers, modems, cables, network monitoring and security software,
etc.) and civil works had to be procured to make the above possible. We rate this outcome as
satisfactory.
Provision of Hardware: 20 SUN database servers were deployed; 56 SUN workstations,
850 PC workstations, 10 large system printers; 100 workstation printers; 50 WAN devices and
150 LAN devices were deployed, installed, configured and are running with appropriate software
in the sites mentioned above. We rate this outcome as satisfactory.
Rolling Out the ITS in BIR Offices: The ITS software system has been installed,
configured and tested -- based on its standard architectural requirements (which piece goes on
which server, and where) -- in all computerized BIR offices. At present, the roll out includes 5
RDCs, 7 ROs, 41 RDOs and to the National Office where the whole system is controlled via an
advanced, nation-wide Network  Monitoring, Command  and  Control Center.   These
computerized sites cover a territory representing about 90 percent of BIR's total revenue. A
chronological review of this rollout reveals that several major difficulties were encountered since
1996: deferrals due to problems experienced during early production of the systems at their first
pilot sites; changes in BIR organization, including the creation of new institutions such as the
Large Taxpayers and Excise Taxpayers Services; and a very high 80% rejection (suspense) rate
of transactions in 1996. However BIR spent the latter three years (1997-2000) correcting and
addressing initial rollout problems. Based on current rollout and installation information of ITS,
and on the reduced average suspense rate reported by BIR in December 1999 (10%) we rate this
outcome as satisfactory.



- 11 -
Application and Infrastructure Architecture: Significant strategic changes were
adopted over the course of the project. The distributed processing approach was changed from
total, RDO-based processing to partial, RDC-based processing. This was achieved by moving
computer processing and storage of taxpayer data from ROs to RDCs.  Today BIR is
contemplating going back to a centralized approach by consolidating all RDCs. Similarly, data
entry was transferred from the RDOs to the four RDCs and is now devolved back to ROs.
Because of the several design changes and their accompanying changes in the rollout plans such
as staffing, logistics, equipment, software design, etc. we rate this component as unsatisfactory.
ITS Usage: At present, all computerized sites use between 4 and 7 ITS modules, even
though the full ITS software (14 applications) is deployed and available for use in all
computerized centers. While several of its unused modules are in place (i.e. loaded, installed and
configured at the mainframe computers in the RDCs and the National Office) they are not being
used. For example, the auditing functions are unused; hence the BIR is not reaping the benefits
of computerization to capture and pursue understated income nor any type of tax evasion.
Overall the ITS rollout was too slow and too cautious, even though the ITS usage is now
paramount in all computerized RDOs. On the sole reason that BIR is still unable to utilize the
whole ITS's suite of application and modules, we rate this outcome, today, as unsatisfactory.
Increased Revenue: BIR has not yet succeeded in meeting its revenue targets despite the
computerization of its operations. Some of the system's capabilities are not being used. For
example, the system allows for instantaneous identification of stop-filers, and these non-
compliance cases are followed through by BIR. However the volume of stopfilers and erroneous
returns flagged by the system are often times beyond what can be followed through by BIR staff
given the current communication methods with taxpayers. Nor is taxpayer information cross-
checked with third-party data and BOC VAT data. BIR audit data indicate that only 35,000
taxpayers (out of 10 million) were audited. In general, even though the ITS facilitates the
detection of non reported income or non filing of tax returns within the Tax Reconciliation
System (TRS), the ITS is not used as a decision making tool to increase the number of audits nor
to enhance their targeting, largely due to the lack of an audit strategy. BIR's research (noted in
the BIR ICR) shows revenue increases in computerized RDOs (18.6%) as compared to non-
computerized RDOs (8.5%). However, it is not obvious that these increases stem directly from
the computerization of these RDOs. Consistent with outcomes for the rollout and ITS usage
discusses above, we rate this outcome as unsatisfactory. It should be mentioned in this context,
however, that the first revenue collection figures released in April 2000 indicate that the BIR
exceeded its collection targets by PhP 4.5 billion over the period January through March 2000.
Bank Interface: TCP has helped BIR realize considerable internal efficiencies that
minimize the cost of tax collection transactions. Tax collection information is encoded in the
3,000 branches of the Accredited Agent Banks by Bank staff, and transmitted electronically to
BIR (via RDCs) within 24 hours. The Limited Bank Data Entry (LBDE) application links 1200
affiliated Banks to the ITS. Taxpayers pay their taxes directly at their respective branch, where
their returns and payments are encoded by Bank tellers based on the TIN, and sent to the ITS to
update the tax records. A taxpayer can pay their taxes at any Bank branch in their RDO,
achieving the concept of "file anywhere, pay anywhere." We rate this outcome as satisfactory.



- 12 -
Large Taxpayers Service: The creation of the Large Taxpayer Services began slowly, as
the reallocation of large taxpayers from RDOs to the LTS took a long time. Even though the
IMF's target (a LTS with 2000 large taxpayers accounting for 80 percent of total revenue) has
not yet been attained, the LTS's outcome is positive and shows visible improvements in
efficiency and collected revenues over the pre-ITS era. One thousand companies are currently
registered in the LTS. One of the five RDCs was selected to handle only the large taxpayers.
We find this outcome satisfactory.
Increased Base of Registered Taxpayers: The number of registered taxpayers in the
REG module has expanded to 10 million (including 1.5 million corporations, self-employed and
sole proprietors). This is an increase of 5 million taxpayers, and the total registered taxpayers
account for one-third of the labor force. We find this outcome satisfactory.
Development of the Information Systems Strategic Plan: BIR has a good strategy and
planning team to prepare its ISSP and adapting it to its new technology and computing
requirements. We rate this outcome as satisfactory.
Enhanced Efficiency of Internal Administration: At present, the BIR receives tax
payment information from the accredited affiliated banks within 24 hours as electronic data
filling is sent directly to RDC from the Banks via the LBDE. Prior to the TCP, this took from 7
to 10 days before the TCP. The BIR now produces collection reports in 3 days at the end of each
month as opposed to 20 days before the TCP. Registration of new taxpayers is instantaneous (20
minutes maximum as opposed to taking 2 to 3 weeks pre-TCP). A taxpayer can receive a Tax
Clearance Certificate within 15 minutes of registration, versus two days in the previous setup.
Introduction of the Intranet, video conferencing and e-mail has tremendously increased
communication and outreach between the decentralized BIR branches and organizational units.
Finally, reduction of the bank float to 5 days instead of 10 has increased BIR's yearly interest
revenue by an estimated PhP 213 million. We find this outcome highly satisfactory.
Increase of BIR's Auditing Capability: Whereas recent PREM studies indicate a serious
neglect of audit features in newly built tax computerization systems, this was not the case for
TCP which has a comprehensive suite of auditing tools, including case monitoring, profiling etc.
However, attempts to generate audit cases from the system have been met with resistance by
senior management, which suggests that further work is needed on setting selection criteria and
on selling the concept to senior management. A March 1999 supervision mission assessed the
ITS's audit module and noted the need for further development and tailor-made applications to
be added, especially in terms of monitoring macro-economic data and aggregate tax indicators to
estimate evasion for sectoral populations. We rate this outcome as unsatisfactory.
II. BOC Customs Computerization
This was also a complex project for BOC. It had a countrywide scope extending over 14
regions, involving multiple parties (World Bank, Crown Agents, Unisys, UNCTAD, DAP, DoF)
and including cross-disciplinary areas such as facilities planning, civil works, software and
hardware rollout, training, change management, etc. However, as noted previously, BOC did not
have to develop customs application software, as a world-class application existed (ASYCUDA,
written by UNCTAD). ASYCUDA did need to be substantially adapted to the GOP's customs



- 13 -
procedures. While the BOC needed to acquire hardware and build communication infrastructure,
it benefited from having its major sites (the Port of Manila, NAIA Airport, etc.) in the most
optimum locations as far as telecommunication services were concerned. However for its ports
and sites outside of the metropolitan area, BOC did face the same communications and facilities
management challenges as the BIR.
Development of the Automated Customs System (ACOS): Computerization of the BOC
was based on the development of the Automated Customs Systems (ACOS) under a turnkey
contract awarded to Unisys in June 1994. The initial contract price was US$8.2 million and was
increased to US$11.9 million. The ASYCUDA-+ Customs software is at the core of the ACOS.
A resident UNCTAD team was contracted to customize ASYCUDA++ for the BOC under a
US$2.5 Million contract. At present, customs software has been adapted to the GOP's customs
policies, procedures and laws and is operational in 21 sites. ACOS also includes an automatic
payment program for importers' duty taxes; and a data-warehousing component used for
intelligence and information gathering. The GOP received a World-Class Customs Award for its
modernized customs system in July 1998 by the World Customs Organization. In December
1999, ASYCUDA was upgraded to its latest version, ASYCUDA 1.15. We rate this component
as highly satisfactory.
Provision of Communication Infrastructure: The BOC owns and operates a wide area
network (WAN) that spans virtually the entire GOP territory, connecting the central BOC
headquarters in Manila and all other sites via a frame relay network. We rate this component as
satisfactory.
Provision of Hardware Computing Platform: More than 600 Unisys PCs and 40 servers
(including back-up and Email servers) have been purchased to operate ACOS. Other non-
computing equipment such as printers, audio video conferencing equipment for training and
conferences, generators, air conditioners; etc. were purchased to complement the BOC
modernization program. Despite the increased number of rollout sites, the BOC purchased and
upgraded its equipment in all its locations in 1999. We rate this component as highly
satisfactory.
ACOS RollOut: By 1999, ACOS was successfully rolled out to 21 ports instead of the 7
originally planned sites in the SAR. The additional 14 out ports were included in the roll out to
extend the benefits occurring in the other operational ports without incurring major additional
costs. We rate this component as highly satisfactory.
ACOS Usage: ACOS has been in use for a few years now by trained BOC staff. There is
much public awareness and recognition of the system as its targeted audience - traders --
benefited from the accompanying simplification of import and export processes, customs
clearance, goods declaration, etc. We rate this component as satisfactory.
Revenue Increase: BOC has consistently achieved and indeed exceeded its collection
targets in 1993, 1995, 1996 and 1999. We rate this outcome as satisfactory.
Trade Facilitation: The BOC TCP created a more favorable business environment for the
private sector, which also generated additional revenue. The project accelerated the processing



- 14 -
of goods and cargoes in Customs, which helped brokers, tax authorities and importers. The
project was also a catalyst for successful private/public partnership as most data entry in the
ports is outsourced to a private data entry service provider. We rate this outcome as highly
satisfactory.
Re-engineering of BOC Procedures and Processes: This work has occurred from the
start of the project, based on the IMF's 11-point reform program and prior to the customization
of ASYCUDA ++. Outdated, inefficient, paper-based, manual processes were canceled and the
customs activities (release of imported cargo, selection of goods for inspection, inspection,
reporting, clearances, computation and collection of duties and taxes on imports) were
redesigned and then automated in the ACOS. We rate this outcome as highly satisfactory.
Site Preparation and Facilities: Five sites were constructed from scratch (the Customs
Computer Center, POM, MICP, NAIA, and Batangas), all other sites were renovated (including
training center in the CRIC building, Cebu and Legaspi). We rate this outcome as satisfactory.
III. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
Institutional Strengthening for BIR: Satisfactory
Several types of training and change management programs were accomplished in BIR.
These revolved around two different target audiences: rank and file staff and management, and
inforrnation technology staff. Training the BIR rank and file staff, and management included (i)
office automation (as most of these staff had never used a computer before the project), (ii) using
the ITS and its new processes, and (iii) communications, values and ethics. IT training involved
technical areas such as telecommunications, network administration, database development,
database administration, office automation support, hardware support, and using and supporting
the ITS itself (help desk function).
ITS Support and Development Training: BIR IT teams received in-depth technical
training on all aspects of the new technology introduced by ITS (LAN management, database
administration, facilities management, software development, etc.) We rate this outcome as
satisfactory.
Change Management: Over 6,000 BIR staff (2,000 staff were specified in the SAR)
participated in a change management training program where they learned new BIR processes
and how to apply these in the ITS. This was the largest technical and user training program in
BIR's history, and was accomplished over five years and across the GOP's territory. Some of the
communication, leadership, ethics and values training courses were funded by GTZ, who
assisted BIR's efforts to change its image and improve its internal values system. The change
management program for the BIR rank and file was insufficient because of low funding for this
activity. Based on all above we rate this outcome as unsatisfactory.
Taxpayers' Education: The Taxpayer Assistance Service (TAS) was formed in 1998 after
considerable delay. It is responsible for marketing, and educating citizens on BIR's mission and
implementation of the taxpayer registration program. Ideally it should have been established in
1993 or 1994 to achieve its intended objective.  However, based on the vast number of



- 15 -
educational programs and out- reach seminars implemented by BIR in the last two years we find
this issue satisfactory.
Increasing Tax Administration Transparency: The project today provides better
taxpayer service through the help desk kiosks and brochures at the affiliated agent banks, and
specially created new Taxpayer Assistance Units for regular taxpayers and the LTD. BIR is also
working on improving its web site. It intends to allow electronic filing and payments over the
Internet, once legal barriers are overcome. Forms are generated and downloaded from the BIR's
web site (www.bir.gov.ph); and taxpayers can obtain relevant tax information through the
information kiosks and the web page. Today, most information is processed electronically with
minimum human intervention; and collection reconciliation is done on-line by consolidating
taxpayers' returns and the withholding agent's collection. We rate this outcome as satisfactory.
b) Institutional Strengthening for BOC: Satisfactory
Most of BOC staff also participated in a large-scale change management program and
training on the ACOS. Training was developed by Development Academy of Philippines
(DAP), then Unisys and in parallel SGS (Societe Generale de Surveillance) conducted Customs
Clearance Training, Border Patrol Training, and much training related to the Customs Process.
Information Technology, Support and Development Training: Over 2500 people (650
people were targeted in the SAR) were trained on the ASYCUDA++ software and on office
automation, as well as some non-technical courses related to change management. All of BOC's
IT staff received training with 17 courses offered 28 times. We find this outcome satisfactory.
Change Management: DAP, UNCTAD and Unisys were the major providers of the
change management training program.  This program consisted of workshops, seminars,
awareness sessions with traders and importers; and the transacting public at large. BOC
produced 34 non-technical courses that were run 747 times. Two regional training centers were
established in Cebu and Davao, including office automation and video conferencing equipment.
The Manila training center was used for most of the metro Manila IT and change management
training. We find this outcome satisfactory.
Trader and Public Education: As part of the change management program outlined
above, training and public awareness programs were also held for the transacting public, other
agencies, stakeholders. We find this outcome highly satisfactory.
Increasing Customs Administration Transparency: The BOC today provides better
services to traders and allows electronic tracking of a shipment, its value, location; etc. The
computer randomly assigns an inspector for suspect cargoes so there is less room for human
intervention or corruption. We rate this component as satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Financial Analysis of project: The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) prepared on March 31,
1993 for the Philippines Tax Computerization Project indicated attractive benefits on project
returns and recovery of project costs using the Net Present Value (NPV), Financial Internal Rate



- 16 -
of Retum (FIRR), and Benefit-Cost Ratio evaluations. There were likewise other non-financial
benefits cited in the SAR. The project closed last December 31, 1999 and a financial evaluation
was done in April 2000 as part of the Intensive Learning ICR by a team of Financial Analysts.
The complete analysis and the collection data used are all listed in the annexes attached to the
ICR and listed below.
Objective: The actual benefits from the project were evaluated and examined in the light
of the benefits cited in the SAR, with appropriate adjustments to be comparable, and of the
economic conditions existing during project implementation.
Specifically, the objective of the financial analysis was to evaluate benefits from the
project using Annex 12 as well as paragraphs. 4.15 and 4.16 of the SAR.
Coverage: The evaluation covered the period 1993- 2000 with the Bureau of Intemal
Revenue (BIR) and the Bureau of Customs (BOC) as its major components for revenue
collection agencies. It also covered the regional computerization/large taxpayers where data was
available.
Methodology: The evaluation mainly used the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) evaluation
tools and the Benefit-Cost Ratio based on DCF results. The DCF tools used were the Net Present
Value (NPV) and the Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR). The framework of analysis used
is that of the Annex 12 of the SAR. The figures in the SAR were deflated by the reduction in the
GDP growth rates so as to be comparable with the actual growth rates used in the evaluation.
Since rollouts only started in 1996, the project benefits started to be computed only at that year -
which represents a 3-year delay on incremental benefits. As such the SAR figure on 3-year delay
has been used.
Overall observation: The economic benefits and incremental revenue could really not be
directly identified with the project especially in times of economic difficulties of the country.
Inputting, restating and deflating figures could have resulted to unfavorable results which might
not even be attributable to the project, so this was minimized as much as possible in the FA
assumptions. The non-financial benefits should be mostly emphasized at this point, rather than
the purely financial ones.
Annexes: Please refers to attached annexes as additional sources of information:
1 - Incremental Project Costs
2 - Consolidated Revenues
2-a Bureau of Internal Revenue - Schedule of Collection Target vs. Actual
2-b Bureau of Customs - Schedule of Collection Target vs. Actual
3 - Financial Rate of Return Calculations
4 - Assumptions for the Project's Financial Rate of Return
4.4 Financial rate of return:
As can be seen in detail in the annexes, the benefits from the project were financial and
non-financial. The incremental benefits could only be computed with a 3 year delay starting
1996 due to the fact that only in 1996 did the roll outs started. On the financial benefits, the



- 17-
project gave a total incremental collection benefits to the government of about pH 2 trillion from
1996 to 2000 or an equivalent FIRR of 307 % from a total cost of PhP 3.35 billion. An
attractive return indeed. The Benefit-Cost Ratio based on present values is about 9,
indicating a highly beneficial undertaking. The NPV of the project's incremental revenues
using interest rates of 10 % to 20 % averages to Php 16 billion. Comparing this to the
project's average cost present value of Php 2 billion, the project earns more than what it
costs by about Php 14 billion.
The foregoing benefits were obtained despite the reduction of almost half of its assumed
GDP growth rates from 7% to an average of 3.8% as a consequence of a sluggish economy
mainly brought about by the Asian crisis. Comparison to the SAR could not be straight away be
made on the peso figures since the GDP growth rates have been significantly different. Thus
based on a revised SAR, imputing the GDP growth changes, the project attained 90% of the SAR
incremental collection targets under a 3 year delayed benefits comparison. The FIRR of the
project of 307 % is higher than the recomputed SAR FIRR of 210 % mainly because of the
heavier initial cash outflow under the SAR. The benefit cost ratio and NPV of the actual
figures and the SAR are not comparable due to the significant reduction in the GDP and lower
collection. Despite all the reduction in GDP, the project managed to retain its attractiveness of
return and cost recovery as a worthwhile project to sustain.
The non-financial benefits are from the project were easily felt and clearly noticeable. At
the BR, the computerization of key business processes such as receipts and reporting of tax
payments, among  others greatly enhanced employees' productivity.   At the BOC,
computerization has improved cargo release time, the selection and extent of physical and
documentary inspection, and the banks' reporting and transmittal of importer's payment.
Improved intemal and extemal communication has also greatly enhanced the efficiency of both
agencies. However, the impact on manpower productivity in terms of head counts and time
charges has not yet been established.
Despite the deviations in the implementation targets and the generally low tax collection
posted due to economic slowdown and other uncontrollable factors, the financial benefits during
the project period is still highly satisfactory. It also proved that the P2.22 billion present value of
project expenditures could be recovered in just one year by an increase in revenue of less than
1%. The project also showed an extremely high financial internal rate of return. This
analysis did not include the intangible benefits that are difficult to quantify, more particularly the
economic benefits brought about by automation and work simplification.
In spite of the economic crisis and other difficulties encountered during its implementation,
the TCP achieved reasonable financial benefits, although it did not meet the target set in the
SAR. The benefit-to-cost ratio posted a respectable 39 to 43 times at discount rates ranging from
10% to 20%. Other financial indicators such as internal rate of return and net present values
also showed high marks. This financial evaluation did not consider the non-quantifiable
economic and social benefits that were inevitably brought forth by the project. In like manner,
revenue losses due to deficiencies and inefficiencies of the manual system were not quantified.
Considering the immediate and long-term impact of the project not only to the agencies
concerned but also to the Filipino taxpayers as a whole, the overall benefit of the TCP more than
compensates its investnent cost.



- 18 -
It is important, however, that the full implementation and operation of the computerized
system be sustained if the government wants to maximize the benefits on new technology. The
planned linkage with other key government agencies is also worth pursuing. Proper and
consistent system maintenance, both hardware and software must also be undertaken. The
cooperation and support of the tax-paying public are also greatly needed to ensure continuing
success of the computerization project.
4.5 Institutional development impact.
In addition to outcomes outlined in section 4.2, other unanticipated outcomes arose from
the TCP:
Improved Fiscal Decision making and management. Based on new, detailed collections
data, DOF developed a comprehensive and functional database to analyze collection problems
(i.e., how were import patterns changing and where was leakage occurring) and to formulate tax
policies
Enhanced Government Expenditure and Cash Management. During the GOP's deficit
period, it managed its cash flow on a day-to-day basis using FINLINK to assess collections and
to communicate with DBM
Engaged the Private Sector and enhanced their willingness to pay for selected public
services (i.e., the super green lane in the BOC).
Enhanced BOC's Reputation, especially in lessening bureaucratic graft and corruption -
as viewed by the private sector, public at large, Congress and international observers.
Experience in Agency Modernization and Electronic Service Delivery: BIR and BOC's
experience has created awareness and sensitivity to large-scale modernization issue. The GOP
can benefit from the TCP experience in any future E-govemment plans or strategies.
Increased efficiency of communication: BIR, BOC and the World Bank greatly
increased the efficiency and speed of project management by exchanging information via email
as opposed to letters or faxes. Disbursement information, document reviews, procurement
information etc. were all exchanged by email which considerable speeded-up approval cycles.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The below-mentioned factors affected both BIR and BOC, unless specifically noted that
only one agency was affected.
Economic Crisis: the Asian economic and financial crisis caused a temporary shrinkage in
all economic sectors and rising unemployment. The downturn in economic activity is a key
explanation for revenue shortfalls in 1999, and BIR's inability to meet its annual revenue target



- 19 -
of PhP 380 billion. Deterioration in the peso's exchange rate as a result of the crisis also had a
significant impact on the project. When the loan was signed (1993), the exchange rate was 23
pesos per US dollar. In 1999, the exchange rate was 44 pesos per US dollar. Most loan
disbursements occurred from 1997 to 1999, largely because of the staging of deliverables toward
the end of the project. This caused enormous problems for BIR and BOC in obtaining the
needed annual budget appropriation from Congress and the Department of Budget and
Management (DBM) for the counterpart contribution to the project. Negotiating these budget
allocations distracted many TCP executives from monitoring and supporting the project's
implementation.
Limited Telecommunication Infrastructure: BIR's ITS architecture was implemented
based on a three-tiered, Regional Data Center (RDC) scheme. The original design was based on
a two-tier architecture, with a National Office-centric taxpayer database replicated and updated
at each RDO. The RDC-based design was introduced in 1995, when BIR realized that
weaknesses in the telecommunication infrastructure in the Philippines would impede
transmission of large files from the NO to RDOs. Hence the five RDCs were created with more
powerful telecommunication infrastructure, and they were slated to be the "hub" for the main
database. The ITS would have been easier to design, develop, maintain and use by taxpayers and
BIR staff if the system were developed in the two-tiered structure that was originally planned.
Rapid Changes in Office Technology Equipment: The project and the major
procurement specification began in 1992 in an environment when the Disk Operating System
(DOS) was widely used especially in developing countries. Between 1992 and 1999, hardware
and software markets experienced rapid changes and life cycles. Hardware prices for servers,
computers and networking equipment began declining rapidly around 1995, as computers
became real commodities.   At the same time, software shifted to Windows applications.
Although the rapid change in technology is well known and will affect any project with a
significant office automation component, BIR suffered at the end of the project from obsolete
equipment that was purchased in 1993 and 1994; old software versions without provision for
license upgrades, inadequate storage capacity for transaction archiving, and neither project funds
nor as agency appropriations to replace obsolete equipment or software. BOC did not face that
problem as most servers were upgraded and enhanced in 1999, giving them an additional life
span usage until 2002.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Inappropriate Scope and Complexity of the Project: As noted previously, the project
was too complex to be implemented in only five years, and inappropriately narrow in excluding
important issues of tax policy and administration. A better phasing of project components would
have met the development objectives of the project and recognized the need to build capacity and
manage change in the BIR and BOC. The project should have included a major business process
re-engineering component for BIR's organization, processes and communication with other
agencies. Many existing processes were automated without regard to whether they were efficient
ones for a modem organization. BIR lost a good opportunity to streamline its processes,
eliminate unwanted steps and procedures, and use the TCP as an application with built-in
workflow mapped to the BIR's new procedures. Along the same line, fundamental simplification
of tax filing and payment processes should have occurred before automation.



- 20 -
Rollout Strategies: BIR's first ITS pilots were rolled-out in 6 RDOs, instead of just the
Large Taxpayer Service as recommended by the Bank, IMF and consultants. Initial problems -
e.g., the predictably high suspense rate for payments and returns -- were much more difficult to
correct in six pilot sites than one, and significantly greater resources were required (e.g., six roll-
out assistance teams). We contrast this with BOC's piloting of ACOS in the co-located Port of
Manila: one pilot site within walking distance enhanced the efficiency of the pilot and reduced
the "test and correct" cycle needed for pilot software to mature into production software. In
addition, the initial strategy to roll out 14 modules was revised to concentrate on six core
modules (registration, collections, returns, stopfilers, and bank interface) in the largest revenue
regions (Makati, Manila, Quezon City and Cebu). The constantly changing roll-out strategy
disrupted the project: the composition of roll-out assistance teams continually changed, scarce
human resources were reshuffled, and attention to test and improve ITS's components
diminished. Mismanagement of this roll-out process has significant costs: BIR can no longer
hold the contractor accountable for bugs or development flaws and it must pay separately for any
software change.
Frequent Leadership Changes: By mid-April 2000, the project had witnessed several
leadership changes: 6 Secretaries of Finance, 5 Under Secretaries in charge of the TCP, 4 BIR
Commissioners, and 4 BOC Commissioners. Despite on-going GOP commitment to the TCP,
each new management team needed time to understand the project and had their own agenda.
These changes delayed some decisions and some~times led to totally different implementation
strategies.
Inter-Agency Coordination and Communication: The relationship between DOF and
BIR was not clearly defined at the outset of the project, and DOF's role was envisioned only
with regard to project supervision.  This may stem  from  the initial design of a tax
computerization project rather than one promoting better tax policy and administration. DOF
appointed one (sometimes two) of its four Under Secretaries as an oversight manager for the
TCP, which is organizationally equivalent to the BIR Commissioner. This sometimes caused
friction in reporting and communication. The project would have faired better if the Secretary of
Finance had defined a clear line of reporting for BIR's Commissioner. Similar lack of clarity
characterized "who did what" at DOF regarding the TCP: at the end of the project, two Under
Secretaries were in charge with different teams of advisors, countersignatures took a lengthy
amount of time, and resentment grew between BIR and DOF. Efficient revenue collection
requires the ongoing exchange of data between tax and customs administration, which can be
facilitated by computerized systems. In the Philippines some progress has been made with
FINLINK and the use of the same Taxpayer Identification Number by both BIR and BOC.
However the exchange of information among agencies is still underdeveloped, and opportunities
for using the TCP as a means to enhance overall fiscal decision making may be lost if no
communication strategy is agreed upon amongst the different agencies.
Indifferent Middle Management: BIR's top management included many dedicated
managers and project champions. However, this commitment and support was not characteristic
of all of BIR's middle management, whose lack of support hindered the achievement of some
objectives and promoted project resistance among their own staff.  Consequently, many
unforeseen and avoidable problems occurred at the RDO level.



- 21 -
Unstable Tax Policy Environment: The project witnessed several changes that were
unanticipated as BIR underwent several policy and organizational changes. One of the most
important was the Tax Reform Act of 1997, popularly called the Comprehensive Tax Reform
Program. Every change in tax policy and administration (and related processes) directly affected
the development of the ITS, since the software system had to emulate all BIR processes,
legislation, policies, workflows and procedures. These changes delayed software development
and rollout; and hence the timely usage of the ITS. Implementation of the CTRP distracted DOF
management fromn daily monitoring of the project, and caused resentment among BIR staff who
felt excluded from the tax policy decisions under discussion. This caused a widening gap
between DOF and BIR until the end of the project. In addition, the frequent declaration and
usage of tax amnesties contributed to the low degree of voluntary tax compliance in the
Philippines. A continuing expectation of immunity from prosecution for tax evasion and non-
timely payment of taxes seriously impedes effective tax collection.
Lack of Attention to Environment for Public Sector Reform: The project was
conceived, designed and planned as a tax computerization project. However, tax administration
does not operate in a vacuum and depends significantly on the overall environment in which the
administration operates, including issues such as civil service rules, predictability of budget
funding, or the quality of the judiciary. To support and enhance efficiency gains in tax
administration, additional public sector reforms will be necessary to professionalize the civil
service (and overcome the difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified IT staff), enhance the
legal basis for enforcement, and work toward stable funding of TCP activities. The need for civil
service reform was raised in the SAR but it was assumed that the GOP would undergo a civil
servant reform or other legislative changes (confidential positions bill) that would harmonize
private and public sector wages. This issue is still unresolved as both BIR and BOC depend
heavily on qualified IT staff to maintain the facilities and databases, produce management
reports, enhance the system and adapt it new requirements, etc.
Lack of Counterpart Funds: This budgetary issue became an overwhelming and
distracting issue in early 1998 as the GOP, in response to the regional economic crisis, slashed
non-personnel budgets by 25 percent across all agencies. Both BIR and BOC needed funding for
their facilities maintenance, telecommunication costs, contractors' salaries, as well as to pay for
the project's locally purchased goods and services.  The TCP is based on a computing
infrastructure that requires equipment upgrades. renewed software licenses, and increased server
capacity for form processing and storage. Neither BIR nor BOC has succeeded in securing
sufficient budget to improve nor sustain its operations. This will become a critical determinant
of future sustainability, as loan proceeds are no longer available to fund these activities.



- 22 -
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Loss in Implementation Consulting Assistance: The contract with Crown Agents ended
in November 1998 and was not renewed. This exacerbated inter-agency communication
problems. During their contract, Crown Agents facilitated coordination among BIR, BOC and
DOF. Crown Agents also did a good job in including taxpayers, accountants, users from BIRs
and representatives from the Banking sector to participate in the design of the ITS; subsequent
stakeholder input might have enhanced project outcomes.
Cumbersome Administrative Procedures: In 1999 a new requirement of DoF
countersigning of withdrawal application; which considerably delayed the loan disbursement
process as withdrawal applications would sometimes sit for weeks at DoF.
Multiple Change Notices with Contractors: Change notices are inevitable parts of any
contract, however they consume managerial resources and require top management approvals
from BIR, BOC, DOF and the World Bank, leading to considerable implementation delays in
this project. For BIR, the ACPS contract grew from about US$32.8 million to about US$ 37.5
million, by about 14.3 percent of the original contract price. The BIR project had over 300
change notices. For BOC, the Unisys contract grew from US$8.2 million to US$11.6 million,
equivalent to almost 42 percent of the original contract price. The BOC project had almost 300
change request notices.
Transparent Procurement Process: The use of Crown Agents, a UK-based firm
specializing in Public Sector Management, as the Project's procurement consultant allowed a
transparent, efficient and high-quality procurement process that was lauded unanimously by all
staff involved in the project. Large Informatics projects often experience major delays,
misprocurements and disputes with bidders and vendors. This was not the case for TCP
Need for Data Conversion Strategy: The manual systems used in BIR prior to ITS
contained debt information that was not transferred to the ITS. When the ITS was installed in
the Manila and Cebu offices, data about existing debt was not transferred to the new system so
all taxpayers started with a zero balance. This is one of the many issues encountered during the
migration from the legacy systems to the new ones, and could have been avoided if the
implementation team had properly planned a data conversion strategy.
Need to Enhance BIR and BOC Reputation: BIR and BOC do not generally have a
reputation for professional administration, nor are taxpayers understood to pay their entire share
of taxes and fees. The TCP-- with its potential to reduce opportunities for corruption and
improve the detection of stop-filers and non-filers -- is an important element in initiatives to
improve BIR's and BOC's image. A combination of a strong anti-corruption initiatives,
efficiency gains in tracking tax evasion, and a public relations campaign are necessary elements
of a strategy to improve the image of BIR and BOC. For BIR and BOC to reap the full benefits
of the new systems, they must use the system to identify evaders and stop filers. Only consistent
pursuit of fraud or evaders and the application of fair sanctions would exonerate the BIR and
BOC in the eyes of their skeptical public. While some success has been achieved regarding the
public's perception of BOC (especially among the community of traders), BIR will need to take



- 23 -
further action and develop an effective public relations campaign. Voluntary compliance will be
difficult to achieve as long as the image of BIR does not improve considerably.
5.4 Costs andfinancing.
Cost changes were not significant as project costs were incurred as planned, and cost
variations were small. However, changes in project scope and design (especially with regard to
the creation of the RDCs, and the many change notices) took a toll on the project, especially for
the 30% local counterpart funding required. BOC project savings were realized that allowed
UNCTAD personnel to remain for another year to assist the BOC, free of charge.
Disbursement delays were significant. The ICR quantifies these delays by comparing the
number of years estimated in the SAR from loan signing to completion (or final disbursement for
adjustment loans) with the actual performance. The estimated disbursements in the SAR were
unrealistic given that service contracts were such that the payments to suppliers were
programmed to be done in the last two years of the project. Also, unrealistic implementation
schedule, incomplete project preparation, unexpected technical difficulties, changes in project
scope, delays in selecting staff/contractors/consultants, delays in receiving counterpart funds all
contributed to a slower than expected disbursement flow.
In December 1999, BIR cancelled US$3 million from the total loan. The total cost of
BIR's component (including counterpart funding) is PhP 2.1 Billion. The total cost of the BOC
component (including counterpart funding) is PhP 900 Million.
Loan reallocations occurred five times during the life of the project: in December 1996, in
July 1997, in July 1998, in November 1999 based, and finally in March 2000 (reflecting the
cancellation of US$4,669,670.1 lmillion from the total loan.) Such reallocations required BIR,
BOC, DOF and World Bank approval and no objection, leading to project delays, sometimes as
long as 6 months.
For additional information on economic costs and benefits or disbursements, please refer to
Annex 2 and 3. For Financial Rate of Return and Net Present Value information please refer to
Section 4.3 and 4.4 as well as the Financial Analysis Annexes
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is probably going to be sustained, as government counterparts have seen the
benefits of the TCP and enhancing revenue collection continues to be a critical objective for the
GOP. The GOP's commitment to the TCP is strong for both BIR and BOC, but obstacles such
as financial and human resource constraints and poor bureau reputations must be overcome to
assure sustainability. Continued leadership by the DOF and TCP senior managers will also be
required for sustainability.
Financial constraints reflecting shrinking bureau budgets and an annual budgeting
framework. In the future, BIR and BOC must finance all of their future IT operations from GOP



- 24 -
appropriations, which would require stable, multi-year funding commitments.  For most
advanced countries, the budget share allocated to computerization and information technology
(excluding salaries) is around 15 to 20 percent, depending on the level of software development
needed. Because of the effects of the economic crisis, BIR's budget has been declining (from
PhP 790 million to PhP 389 million). In addition, the current, annual budget cycle runs counter
to the multi-year cycles of IT projects. Insufficient funds to maintain the project and to enable
nationwide rollout of ITS would substantially diminish outcomes.
Human resource constraints have been present since the project's inception. BIR and BOC
must hire and retain highly qualified IT staff. If no change occurs to the Bureaus' compensation
structure, and if no exception is made to the Salary Standardization Law, BIR and BOC will have
to outsource their computer operations. Senior managers have begun discussions with DBM and
other officials about the possibility of outsourcing these functions.
BIR and BOC are perceived poorly by the public. This is an obstacle to sustainability as
adverse public opinion negatively affects DBM's decisions on budget allocations for the bureaus,
and may antagonize Congress against the agencies. There is a need to scale up public awareness
of progress accomplished, increased transparency, improved accountability, etc.
The Tax Computerization Bill to be enacted in 2000 should provide more stable funding to
the BIR since it assures that BIR will receives 0.25 percent of its previous year's collection in
2001 and 2002 and 0.20 percent of collections thereafter. Other future enhancements to the TCP
include donor-assisted studies of business process reengineering and tax policy. Electronic filing
and taxpayer service capacities will be available at the RDO  level.  Linkages to other
government institutions such as BOC, Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority
and local government units are expected to be completed by 2001. These linkages will help
identify those under-declaring their taxes and non-filers. In 2001, the Computerization Bill is
expected to be approved, which will expand taxpayer assistance facilities (i.e., customer call
center and electronic filing capabilities). The TCP is expected to reap its full benefits once ITS
rollout has been completed, i.e. at the end of 2002.
One of the options to promote greater sustainability of reforms would be to establish an
independent revenue authority that would combine BIR and BOC. International experience has
shown that, when well designed, these authorities can enhance revenue collections by granting
greater flexibility in budgeting, human resource management and public procurement to the
authority in return for better revenue performance. The feasibility of this option would need
further consideration by the GOP. However, we already received some feedback from the
borrower, who thinks this option is not the right one for the GOP.
Finally, consistent leadership and oversight of the project, regardless of cabinet changes
will help stabilize the project and will speed-up implementation of existing strategies.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Both bureaus have spent considerable time assessing their present state and planning for
the future, culminating in transitional arrangements and long-term plans. For BIR, the short-term



- 25 -
(2000-2001) action plan to assure the success and sustainability of ITS as a tool for BIR to
enhance its revenue collections, as agreed with the IMF, includes the following critical activities:
* deployment of the full ITS in the LTD and a key regional district office (RDO) such as
Makati
* usage of audit and case monitoring for the LTD and the new selected RDO
* roll-out the six basic ITS modules to all RDOs
* devolve encoding back to the RDOs
* start a feasibility study on ITS outsourcing
* initiate electronic filing and paying activities, pre-print tax payment vouchers, etc.
* use third-party information to verify return and improve compliance
* maintain and service the existing setup
* train staff on ITS development and support
* start a three-year rolling hardware replacement program
BIR's longer-term (2002-2003) plan includes the following activities:
* roll-out the full ITS to all RDOs
* reduce administrative costs by 20 percent
- establish a new IT strategy
* outsource ITS
* centralize all RDC processing in the National Office
* improve the audit module and transform it into an expert system to match cases against tax
behavior profiles
* maintain and sustain the existing setup
* enhance the IAS system
BIR's rollout plan and medium-term strategies are listed as an attachment in this report.
For the BOC, the short-term plan is to:



- 26 -
* establish the super green lane
* implement the data warehousing inherited from SGS
* increase its analysis
* connect the data warehouse with the ACOS
*  continue change management program for BOC staff
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal (Quality at
Entry) is rated unsatisfactory. As noted earlier, the project design was consistent with the GOP's
development strategy and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. However, the project focused
almost exclusively on information technology instead of a tax administration project supporting
capacity building in tax administration. Due to this limited approach, important additional
project objectives besides the support of improvements in tax administration by providing
technical assistance, staff training, hardware, software and priority equipment and facilities were
not identified. Also it was assumed that the IMF would take care of necessary tax administration
and policy reforms without formally agreeing with the IMF on a sharing of tasks and
responsibilities.
Total expenditure on project identification, preparation, appraisal, and negotiation was
$120,000, representing 51.3 staff weeks of effort. While the informatics team assigned to
manage the project understood general computerization aspects of the project, a multi-
disciplinary team - including specialists in tax policy, tax administration, public sector
management, organizational change, and capacity building -- would have better served the needs
of the project and the GOP.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision plan in the SAR allowed for 60 staff weeks of effort. Supervision intensity
was planned to be heavier in the earlier stages of the project and lighter toward the end. The
SAR (section 3.41) states: "Bank supervision of the project will require abQut 60 staff weeks.
The most critical period was 1993 for procurement. After contract award, project supervision
will require 3 missions per year during the first 2 years and 2 missions per year thereafter. These
missions will include the Task Manager, and Computer and Tax administration specialists". The
procurement was indeed managed successfully and the intensive supervision (as well as the
choice of a competent project implementation agency) may have contributed to this success.



- 27 -
Total supervision effort over the period 1994 to 1999 was 148 staff weeks or 2.5 times
what was planned in the SAR. A review of mission Aide-Memoires (AMs) indicates a strong
Bank presence from a consistent team with expertise in informatics and economics. Notably
absent was expertise in tax administration expertise. The Bank assisted and coordinated a very
complicated procurement process, which was successful. The Bank was also instrumental in
reviewing and amending the turnkey contracts to BIR and BOC's benefit.
After the signing of the two turnkey contracts the Bank helped BIR and BOC in the
software development and rollout. BIR supervision was more challenging to the Bank's
supervision mainly due to the problems with the QAE, which of course had consequences for
supervision. Lack of systemic process re-engineering resulted in complicated form design for
BIR for instance. Ultimately, with both BIR and the Bank's efforts, simplifications occurred and
the development was completed in a satisfactory way. However, this absorbed a lot of the Bank
and the borrower's time and resources; and could have been addressed and resolved earlier on in
a more efficient way had the BIR QAE been satisfactory. Based on review of the supervision
Aide Memoire the Bank tried to push for form simplification since 1995, however this was
implemented towards 1997.
The ICR team reviewed in detail the AMs generated over the period 1992 to 1999. These
AMs advised the Borrower to correct implementation problems, to resolve supplier issues; etc.
These AM clearly demonstrate that the project. despite some original design flaws, was
correcting itself and moving in the right direction.
Like most Bank projects, the project was supervised by several TTLs. The initial team
(1990 to 1994) was composed of Messrs. Moussa and Fernandez. Mr. Fernandez's untimely
death in 1994 resulted in Mr. Moussa assuming project management responsibility in
collaboration with Ms. Khan (1995 to 1997). Ms. Khan left the project in 1997; Mr. Moussa
reassumed responsibility for the project until November 1998, when he retired from the Bank.
Ms. Melhem officially replaced Mr. Moussa in March 1999.
The project had the usual matrix management issues that the institution is presently trying
to eliminate. The project's TTLs belonged to EMTTI's Informatics Group, while the project's
"owner" was EASPR, and other project initiatives and activities were coordinated and managed
from the Manila-based Country Unit. The management and information flow across this three-
unit matrix (EMTTI, EASPR and the Manila Resident Mission) was sometimes difficult to
coordinate and suffered from inattention during some periods of the project's life. Changes in
the task team leader (four over the course of the project) and EASPR sector leaders further
impeded the effective supervision of this project. Notably, the TCP had no official task manager
for four months as the region left the project without an official manager. These managerial
weaknesses were noted in the QAG review conducted in July 1999.
After a May 1999 supervision mission, the project's very low disbursements resulted in its
performance being downgraded to unsatisfactory. The project was reviewed by a QAG panel in
July 1999 (based on its unsatisfactory rating), and the panel found the project's supervision
quality to be unsatisfactory. This was based on several perceived factors: (i) procurement
delays; (ii) weak management and supervision by EASPR, (iii) poor coordination and



- 28 -
communication across the tripartite matrix; (iv) delayed communication between the Bank and
the borrower on important loan matters; and (v) delays in assigning a new task manager to the
project in November 1998.
Following the QAG review, project coordination and supervision quality improved,
although only in April 1999. A more attentive (and new) sector leader provided critical support
and a hands-on approach to supervision. Additional resources and adequate expertise were
subsequently allocated to the project, including expertise in tax administration, tax policy and
public sector management. Subsequently, in December 1999 a final supervision/pre-Intensive
Learning ICR mission was led by EASPR specialists in Public Sector and Tax Administration,
helped position the project within the broader public sector reform context and reviewed its
status, achievements, and short-to-medium term prospects. Finally the project was designated as
one of the 3 EA projects to undergo an Intensive Learning ICR process, with the objective of
self-learning and disseminating awareness, lessons learned and best practices in the Tax
computerization area.
Based on the above we find the Bank supervision quality satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall lending and supervision performance is rated satisfactory. The basis of
this evaluation is based largely on the assessments above. Despite the challenges described
above, the Bank did work to supervise the project adequately, but its supervision was impeded
by the project's relatively short time span, its extremely ambitious goals and its initial design
flaws. On the positive side, the procurement process was managed extremely well and is used as
a model for projects with high Information Technology investments.
The Bank's unrealistic disbursement schedule in the SAR and loan agreement (where most
disbursements were expected to occur in the first half of the project's life) ultimately led to its
unsatisfactory rating. When the two turnkey contracts were awarded, both contracts stated
clearly that disbursements for software development would occur mostly at the end of the
project, when these services were delivered. This fact was not reflected in the disbursement
schedule, which should have been amended in 1994 to reflect the procurement of goods and
services, rather than the procurement only of goods.
The Borrower's opinion of the Bank's performance is better than the assessment listed
above (as noted in BIR's ICR.) The Borrower did mention that it would have benefited from
better financial management training regarding the Bank's reporting requirements for the project.
The Borrower also thought the Bank should have pushed for the project to be tax-free at the loan
signing. That issue caused many problems during the project as 30 percent of local expenditures
(for contractual, services and equipment) were subject to tax, to be paid from counterpart
contributions. Finally, the Borrower thought that the Bank should have insisted on business
process re-engineering prior to computerization. This would have considerably simplified the
computerization of the registration, collections, returns, filing and audit and may have resulted in
a better tax administration system. The Borrower also suffered from the absence of a tax
administration expert in the project team; and was confused by the abundance of advice provided



- 29 -
by both the IMF and the World Bank on the project. For related information please refer to
Appendix 10, ILICR workshop minutes.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The TCP was the largest computerization project the GOP had launched so far.
Considering the lack of experience in preparing and managing such projects the quality of
project preparation was reasonably high. BIR and BOC selected qualified management teams to
handle the project and competent project directors were nominated.
The main weakness in project preparation on the side of BIR was the attempt to import
existing procedures in need of reform into the computerization process instead of aiming at
simplification and streamlining of procedures before computerizing. However, this was partly a
fault of World Bank project preparation, because BIR was planning to re-engineer and streamline
operations prior to the launching of the project, but was advised by the Bank that such work
should be part of the contractor's responsibility instead of a pre-loan activity.  BIR's
performance in project preparation therefore can be rated as satisfactory.
BOC did not face the re-engineering problem for several reasons: re-engineering was
mandated by the 11-point reform program imposed by IMF (which BOC executed entirely), and
the ASYCUDA software already included procedure simplifications. BOC had a strong
leadership, was ready for reform, and expended immense effort to reform its bureaucracy and
improve its relations with importers. BOC's performance at preparation was highly satisfactory.
DOF supported the project's preparation at the highest level. Its preparation for the project
was therefore satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
BIR can be lauded for several key achievements that are often lacking in other tax
computerization projects:
*  Successful development and pilot-testing of a new tax administration software, the ITS
*  Simplifying tax procedures and introducing a uniform taxpayer identification number
*  Successful management of project costs within the umbrella defined by the WB loan despite
numerous Change Notices. Unlike other similar projects, the final cost of the turnkey system
did not exceed the original estimate by more than 14 percent.
*  Incorporating major tax policy changes in the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program into the
development of the ITS
*  Improving the suspense rate from 80 percent in initial pilot sites to less than 10 percent today



- 30 -
One negative aspect on the software development side is that BIR did not assume sufficient
ownership of the development activities, which were to a large extent simply left to Anderson
Consulting. The fact that the Project Supervision consultant (Crown Agents) was at an early
stage of project implementation no longer allowed to attend the BIR/Anderson Consulting
management meetings may have contributed to the supplier delivering less than what was
originally expected (such as providing tax experts, forms experts and top of the line database
design).
The Borrower lost valuable time by changing its encoding and processing strategy. It
modified the original RDO-based processing proposal to the RDC-based one; and today is
reverting back to an RDO-based processing scheme.
DOF was the main catalyst behind the project's concept and preparation and provided
support to the project, especially with regard to defending the project to Congress or DBM in
order to ensure the needed government funding. We find DOF's implementation performance
satisfactory.
However, overall the borrower's implementation performance was satisfactory as the
Borrower worked very hard to realize the project's objectives and succeeded in this task.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency, Crown Agents, can be credited for having conducted a problem-
free, highly transparent procurement process, which concluded smoothly with the award of two
turnkey contracts. Since 1994 the TCP procurement has been hailed as a success by procurement
experts.
The implementing agency seems to have been excluded from crucial design meetings in the
project's early phase (1994 to 1995). The PIU could and probably would have given proper
advice to BIR on certain fundamental issues such as form re-design. Similarly the PIU could
have assisted BIR in its struggle over the TIN and other data conversion issues. These problems
seem to stem from an unclear evolution of CA's role, who started initially as a "procurement
consultant" and whose role shifted to " project supervision consultant" after the procurement
cycle was completed.
FINLINK was an excellent project that was mostly conceived and designed by the PIU to
improve communications among BIR, DOF and BOC. However, the agencies did not share
applications as originally planned. FINLINK could allow BOC to crosscheck the top 5000
exporters with the income tax and VAT returns in BIR's system. BIR could have allowed the
SEC and BOC to access the BIR TIN database to ensure that BOC and SEC importer records
were filed under the same TIN. Despite limited past usage, FINLINK is witnessing renewed
attention in 2000 as the new DOF management team is encouraging BIR and BOC to use third-
party information and cross-checking mechanism to verify tax information reported by importers
and some large taxpayers.



-31 -
Despite the end of its contract in November 1998, the PIU continued to assist the project
until April 1999 without remuneration. One of the PIU's project managers, Mr. Louie Chanco
can be lauded for his continuous support to the project.
For all above reasons we find the performance of the implementing agency to be
satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on 7.4, 7.5 and 7.6 we find the overall borrower performance satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
On the basis of this evaluation the project provides the following key lessons:
I. Lessons Learned for the Borrower:
Embedding the Tax Computerization Project within a Broader Public Sector Reform
Initiative: The Tax Computerization project should have been positioned, from the beginning,
under a broader public sector reform perspective. The project was planned in isolation of its
environment, with no strategy for sustainability and little recognition of the external constraints
and challenges ahead. From the beginning, the World Bank and the GOP should have planned
for sustainability post-1999 in three major areas: (i) budget resources, by committing the GOP to
allocate yearly a certain percentage of the overall BIR budget to the computerization activities;
(ii) staff resources by reforming civil service laws or seeking an exception from general civil
service salary scales for BIR and BOC IT personnel; (iii) management and leadership for the
project regardless of internal administrative changes.
Complexity and Scope: The messages from the project's clients and reviewers are mixed:
on the one hand the project was too complex for BIR to achieve its objectives in six years; on the
other hand the project's scope was too narrow and should have been integrated with tax policy
and administration reforms as well as accompanied by sectoral reforms of the judiciary, civil
service, etc. These are not contradictory statements; they simply imply that BIR should not have
been left alone to revamp its own procedures. Rather, reforms of BIR should have been part of a
sweeping effort begun in parallel with the other agencies that BIR depends on to be the fully
functional and credible revenue authority envisioned at project inception. All project managers
(past and present) commented on the project's complexity, the need to have broken it into
different, sequential sub-projects, of which the total duration would have been eight to ten years.
To quote a BIR manager, TCP was "too much, too soon, too lonely."
Retaining Skilled IT Staff: The need for legislative changes to civil service rules was
recognized before the project started. Market-based salaries for IT staff would have allowed both
BIR and BOC to retain their qualified IT staff, whose departure was very costly in terms of (i)
system sustainability; (ii) ability to improve the system; (iii) the opportunity cost of managers'
time selecting and recruiting new staff; (iv) training costs as new hires had to be retrained for the
same vacated IT positions; (v) security of the computer systems; and finally (vi) lowering of the



- 32 -
remaining staffs morale and motivation. Possible solutions to the staff retention problem are to:
(i) reform the GOP's Civil Service system by introducing performance-based compensation that
is on par with the private sector; (ii) create an independent revenue authority (to include both
BIR and BOC) with specified performance targets for revenue collection over a defined time
period; and (iii) outsource IT operations for BIR and BOC to the private sector (currently under
study by BIR.)
Communication and Coordination with DOF: Even though the project began with
excellent communication among BIR, BOC and DOF, the last two years of the project (1998-
1999) saw significant degradation in communication. Collection targets set by DOF were seen
as too high and unrealistic by BIR staff. DOF management required a countersignature of every
withdrawal application; hence, slowing down the disbursement process. These problems could
have been avoided if the original steering committee had continued its weekly meetings, Crown
Agents had continued their role of facilitator and coordinator, and all three agencies had been
better aware of what was happening across all project components. As of Spring 2000 we note
that communications have improved and DOF is actively coordinating with BOC and BIR's new
commissioners.
II. Lessons Learned in Software Development and Computerization:
Development of the ITS: As noted above, the ITS software was built from scratch. The
developer's task was to understand the full complexity of how the Filipino tax process works and
to model the process in a software package.  This very difficult task requires excellent
communication between the client and the developer. The BIR representatives in the developer's
team to advise and test the software should have included the most innovative BIR users and
some volunteer taxpayers. The development should have been done in stages. The system
design depended on a certain database architecture outlined in the SAR that proved to be
unfeasible. Finally, the database reporting module (NOMIS) should have been developed to be
an executive decision system for both BIR and DoF to use intensively as a analysis tool for tax
and collection trends per region, per tax type, per industry, etc.
Functional Specifications: These are the guidelines given to the software developer by the
BIR users, which serve as the blueprints of the new system. BIR's specifications were neither
geared toward a new system nor a computerized environment, and most of what they
accomplished was to automate existing manual processes. This could be partially attributed to
relative inexperience of the BIR users involved in the functional specifications; some
misunderstanding about the contractor's mandate; and certainly lack of BIR process re-
engineering prior to designing the system's functional specifications.
Re-engineering  of any agency's processes should be conducted prior to their
computerization. BIR's processes in tax administration, intemal communications and public
communication should have been reviewed, streamlined and simplified prior to the development
of the ITS software. [I don't really think we need all these details here]
Site Preparation: Both BIR and BOC had local offices that were inadequate to run a
computerized system. Both the tax and customs systems were planned to run in a largely



- 33 -
distributed environment (i.e., in several sites). These sites had to be prepared for the installation
of major hardware; wiring offices; connecting them for data communication; ensuring adequate
temperature, space, security and power conditions for the computers running the system; and
containing crucial taxpayer and revenue information.  The site preparation and facilities
management were very costly to both BIR and BOC. A facilities upgrading plan should have
been prepared prior to the project. The SAR did not examine that issue nor did it visit with
sample RDOs to assess the potential costs of site preparation.
Regional Data Centers: The project may have benefited from increased efficiency and
economies of scale had there been one data center number rather than seven. This consolidation
would have solved some of the IT staffing and training issues as well as some of the facilities
management issues. The GOP is considering going back to a one data center architecture once
the ITS is rolled-out entircly to the 41 RDOs that are currently computerized.
Pilot Strategy: The pilot stage, which spanned more than two years, should have been
conducted in one-year or only two sites, preferably co-located in the vicinity of the contractor
and of BIR's IT support team in the National Office. BOC's successful experience in using its
adjacent Port of Manila site as its pilot site benefited from easy access and hence faster problem
solving for all of its ACOS pilot rollouts. Pilot testing was always staged and smoothly handled
at BOC, hence its staff morale was quite high during rollouts.
Taxpayer Education: Taxpayers should have been informed at an early stage about the
impact of the project on administrative procedures. Also, the awareness of the population about
the increased possibilities to detect stop-filers and non-filers with the use of IT should have been
raised. Such an initiative should have been launched before or in parallel to the roll-out of the
system. BIR started to create kiosks for taxpayer assistance only in 1999 as it realized its services
needed improvement. This was neither sufficient nor timely. BIR had already launched in 1997
a special assistance desk only for the large taxpayers that was quite successful and well received
by the target group.
III. Lessons Learned for the Bank
Custom Software Development: The ITS was developed from scratch. In 1993 there was
no other choice as no "off-the-shelf' package existed for tax administration. Today, many
options exist as with the advent of special tax administration software, such as Tax Solutions
(developed by CIAT), ESKORT (developed by WM-data) various products, which have already
been pilot-tested and used in other countries, are available. Assembly and customization still
require time and effort especially to integrate multi-vendor products. Yet a clear advantage of
buying off-the-shelf software is that the customer is guaranteed support, and timely
improvements as the software maker improves and enhances its core products. BOC for
instance, has already received seven upgrades of the ASYCUDA software. BOC and other
ASYCUDA client countries can request system enhancements, and UNCTAD developers
incorporate the client requests in their new releases of the core software.  In future tax
computerization projects the Bank should, to the extent possible, encourage its clients to
purchase and customize standard tax administration software.



- 34 -
Simplification of the Disbursement Process: Both BIR and BOC stated that the Bank's
disbursement rules were complicated when applied to the project; where 30 percent of local
expenditures were financed by local counterpart funds. This 30 percent was to include taxes.
Until 1996, BIR and BOC were still making some mistakes in their withdrawal applications by
including taxes in amounts requested for reimbursment. Training on the Special Account
Management was insufficient as BOC did not report according to Bank procedures on the BOC
Special Account (SA). All of these issues delayed both agencies and the Bank supervision team,
and sometimes distracted them from other fundamental issues. Also, the Bank's disbursement
estimates supplied in the SAR did not match the signed contract agreements for the two turn-key
contracts, which stipulated that payments for services delivered (software development) would
occur towards the end of the project and after the client has satisfactorily used the delivered
software applications. In the future the Bank should also avoid to the extent possible multi-
currency contracts as the ACPS turnkey had provisions for four currencies.
Matrix Management: Project supervision was complicated by the fact its TTLs belonged
to a different anchor unit (EMTTI) from the team formally responsible for the project (East
Asia's PREM). This reduced the efficiency of various Bank processes and sometimes delayed
decision-making.
Need for a Tax Administration Specialist: The Bank relied on the IMF to provide tax
administration and policy advice instead of having this expertise as part of the Bank team. This
caused considerable confusion to the borrower who -(as stated in the ILICR workshop) "was
torn between the WB and IMF's advice" and likely delayed the implementation of important
administrative reforms.
Change Management: The Bank underestimated the magnitude of the changes introduced
by the TCP on all stakeholders: BIR, BOC, all oversight agencies, and the taxpayers themselves.
The content and duration of the training programs were insufficient for the GOP and its
stakeholders to absorb all of the changes introduced. Trainers, facilities, time, budget and
incentives were inadequate. In approving large agency modernization loans the Bank should
emphasize training and change management, which are critical success factors.
Project Planning: The project's implementation plan was simplified. It did not include
specific benchmark performance indicators nor success criteria. Both agencies had to tailor their
own implementation plan to that of their supplier. Existing methodologies for software
development cycle should be followed to enhance implementation efficiency systematically.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
We have received comments on the draft ICR from the three major stakeholders, DoF, BIR
and BOC.
DoF lauded the Bank's candor and stated that it was encouraging to the borrower, and
motivating for increased efforts to resolve remaining issues with the project. DoF agrees that the



- 35 -
project preparation needed more focused and detailed evaluation and a planned re-engineering
and streamlining of BIR procedures before project start.
DoF noted that all the major observations and assessments in the report concurred with
those voiced during the ILICR workshop by DoF, DBM, BOC, NEDA, BIR, etc. participants.
DoF commented that the shared common views were a good indicator of sustainability since all
the major stakeholders agreed on the project's successes and unresolved issues.
DoF disagreed on two points mentioned in the report:
a) On the weak commitment of government to support/sustain gains when administrations
changed, and that the current administration did not place the project on their top priority list.
b) On the feasibility of establishing an independent revenue authority that would combine BIR
and BOC, in the short to medium term time frame. This is very much in line with our view as we
think the Bank or other donors could assist DoF in financing a feasibility study for the
independent revenue authority model merging BIR and BOC, today.
BIR: BIR had some editorial comments and some reservations about some of the
"unsatisfactory" ratings in section 4. However, BIR thought the ICR was an excellent reference
document to be used for similar projects as it contained the essence of some replicable, universal,
best practices in the sector.
BOC: BOC had some editorial changes but was overall very appreciative of the thinking
and analysis effort that the World Bank invested in the report.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A



- 36 -
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
.  d i0 dI i;j00toInd5i1x  0 0   1  uProjectedin last PSR                  Actualtest Estlmate
Development of a 14 Modulle ITS System    Completed                           Completed
Rollout to BIR Offices: The National Office,                                  Has to be completed by end of 2000
19 ROs, 44 RDOs
Increase of internal efficiency of Tax  On-going effect                       On-going effect
Adminsitration: Cost of generating vs
Revenue generated, for BIR and BOC
Number of BIR and BOC staff that have  6000 BIR staff, 650 BOC staff          6000 BIR staff, 2500 BOC staff
been trained on the system
Development of the Customs ACOS and    ACOS system developed, rollout to five last ACOS system totally developed, Rollout to
rollout to seven sites                sies (out of 21) have been iniated      21 sites have been completed
Output Indicators:
1nSctrI4ti                             Pjete In las PSR                       A.ulLts Etat
Increase in Number of TaxPayers correctly  3 Millions                         10 Millions registered taxpayers, broken
regsitered in all groups (regular Taxpayers,                                  down as
LTD, Industry Groups)                                                         1.5 Millions self-employed and
sole-proprietors
8.5 Million employees
1000 Large TaxPayers
Increase in Revenue collection for all groups Not projected, at that time the revenue  In Jan, Feb and March 2000 BIR exceeded
(regular Taxpayers, LTD, Industry Groups)  collected was dropping due to the economic  its collection targets by PhP 4.5 Billion, a first
crises, increase of non-compliance and  time since 1992.
prospect of tax amnesty. However revenue
increase from the LTD was 24.65% between
Sept 98 and April 99; a much higher
increase compared to previous period and
prior to ITS.
Increase of collections in computerized                                      The earlier computerized RDOs experienced
RDOs versus non-computerized RDOs                                             an average growth rate of 18.6% versus
8.4% for non-computerized RDOs.
Increase of identification of stopfilers or tax   34 RDOs had to have the StopFiler Module  Between May and Dec 99, BIR collected
evaders. Prosecution of stopfilers and  rolled-out and functional             PhP 60.5 Million from the resolution of
evaders                                                                       38,512 cases.
Decrease in sumggling (for BOC)
End of project



- 37 -
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     ActualSLatest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost BY Component              US$ million     US$ million
Bureau of Customs                                      27.40            16.20
Bureau of Intemal Revenue                              54.90           35.30
Total Baseline Cost                                    82.30           51.50
Physical Contingencies                                 3.70
Price Contingencies                                    6.30
Total Project Costs               92.30            51.50
Interest during construction    13.80
Total Financing Required               106.10           51.50
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      IC           NC           Other'       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         4.90          4.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     56.60         0.00         3.70         0.00         60.30
(54.40)      (0.00)       (3.20)        (0.00)       (57.60)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         5.40         0.00          5.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.40)       (0.00)        (5.40)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         21.80        21.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     56.60         0.00         9.10         26.70         92.40
(54.40)      (0.00)        (8.60)       (0.00)       (63.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ExpenOur  IC2NCB  er     N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (45.60)       (45.60)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (5.90)        (5.90)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)



- 38 -
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                          0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (51.50)         (51.50)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Appraisal Estimate            Actuat/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank  GGovt.   CoF.
Bureau of Customs         31.52      20.97                 16.20                          51.4    0.0    0.0
Bureau Internal Revenue   31.48      22.23                35.30                          112.1   0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
Comments: The Total WB budget for BIR's tax Computerization project was USD 42 Million.
The peso counterpart amounted to PhP I Billion (equivalent to roughly USD 25 Million based on 1999
exchange rate)
The World Bank project loans of USD 42 Million was allocated to four major items, namely:
35% (or IJSD 14.8 Million) for Hardware Implementation and site preparation
31% (or USD 13 Million) has been allocated for software development, training of users on ITS and
Technical assistance
21% (or USD 8.9 Million) has been allocated for roll-out implementation at national office, RDCs, RDOs,
and the LTD.
13% (or USD 5.3 Million) has been allocated for non-computer equipment (video-conferencing equipment,
information kiosks, vehicles, etc. and project management (Crown Agents) )



- 39 -
Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Please refer to the formal Financial Analysis of the project's IRR, summarized in both section 4.2,
4.3. The complete financial analysis is listed in the separately attached document and spreadsheets
in Appendix 1.



- 40 -
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
[Stag:e of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty               Perfoma nce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS. etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation          2   IS
1991
1992                           2   IS
Appraisal/Negotiation
1993                           6   IS, FE, PE
Supervision
1994                           4  IS                                     S                  S
1995                           4   IS                                    S                  S
1996                           4  FE, IS                                 S                  S
1997                           4  FE, IS                                 S                  S
1998                           3  IS                                     S                  S
1999                          10  FE, IS, PS, TA, TP                     S                  S
ICR
2000                           3   FE, IS, TA                            S                  S
Data in table derived from the old FACT system (Financial and Cost Application, Task management
Project. Project preparation and appraisal data do not reflect work output.
Specialized staff skills
FE: Financial Economist
IS: Informatics Specialist
PE: Procurement Expert
PS: Public Sector Specialist
TA: Tax Administration Specialist
TP: Tax Policy Specialist
U: Unidentifiable
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
_______________________         No. Staff weeks               US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                40.7                         89.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                     11.6                         31.3
Supervision                              148.4                        399.1
ICR                                       lX.l                         92.5
Total                                    218.1                        612.2



- 41 -
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                         O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
@Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
E Physical                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
M Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
ZEnvironmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction                O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
@ Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
M Other (Please specify)           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
@ Private sector development              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
@ Public sector management                0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA



- 42 -
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
C Lending                                            O HS Os *U OHU
O Supervision                                        O HS * S   CU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS C U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        O HS * S  C  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS Os  O  U  O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS  G  U  O HU



- 43 -
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Appendix 1: TCP's Financial Analysis, and related Annexes
Appendix 2: BIR's own Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Beneficiary Survey
Appendix 4: BIR Lessons Learnt
Appendix 5: BOC's own ICR
Appendix 6: Intensive Learning ICR Workshop on 4/12/00
a) Participants List
b)Workshop Agenda



- 44 -
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Please refer to Appendix 3, which contains the Beneficiary Survey results.



- 45 -
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Notes from Tax Computerization ILICR Workshop
I. Introduction and Launching of workshop:
The intensive learning implementation completion workshop was held on 4/12/00
at the Resident Mission. The workshop's agenda and participant list are listed in
Appendix 8's attachments The workshop was attended by almost all invitees (27
participants out of 30 invited). Notable in their attendance were DoF Undersecretaries
Castello and Gison, DCIR Guillermo, DCBOC Reyes; DBM's Ed Campos and former
project leaders such as DoF Undersecretary Guevara and BOC Commissioner Parayno.
DoF, DBM, NEDA, BIR, BOC. The TCP's consultants (Andersen Consulting, SunPhil,
Unisys and UNCTAD) were also well represented. The Bank ICR Mission team
consisted of Dana Weist, Michael Engelschalk and Samia Melhem. The conference was
coordinated and facilitated by Louie Chanco.
The workshop was introduced and concluded by Mr. Aloysius Ordu, Acting
Country Director. Aloysius described the implementation completion exercise, its
importance for the World Bank and its borrowers, and the value of the lessons learnt
distilled from the project.
The first section of the workshop was based on presentations of the project's
outcome for BIR and BOC, followed by a World Bank presentation.
BIR Presentation: DCIR Guillermo presented the BIR achievements as of today.
To summarize these (listed in detail in BIR's ICR and in the document "Making every
Peso count"):
a) Development, completion and deployment of the Integrated Tax System
b) Building of a large communication network connecting all RDOs, Data Centers,
National Office, Large Taxpayer/Excise Division and 3000 Agent Authorized Banks to
BIR's systems
c) Massive training and Change Management program: Trained 6000 BIR staff
d) Increase of revenue in 2000 by PhP 4.5 Billion above target (for Jan, Feb and March)
e) Setup BIR Web page, Information kiosks and Taxpayer assistance units.
i) Enhanced voluntary compliance as collections in computerized RDOs grew by 33% in
contrast with 14% for non-computerized RDOs
g) Total project costs (Bank financing plus counterpart funding) were PhP 2.1 Billion
BIR concluded by stating computerization had enormous benefits on BIR, and would
even have greater benefits if the agency was provided with the necessary resources to
improve itself.
Finally BIR stated that a mere 1% increase in collections is enough to recoup the BIR's
investment in TCP.



- 46 -
BOC presentations: The presentations were made by UNCTAD and Unisys
UNCTAD presented the development of ASYCUDA++, its testing, its phased
development and rollouts, its numerous upgrades (Currently the BOC has ASYCUDA
1.15) its core modules (Selectivity, Manifest Declaration, Assessment, Import entry, etc.)
and its extensions (EDI, Direct Trader Input, On-line Release system, etc.)
Unisys explained the development of the ACOS system. ACOS consists of three
components: ASYCUDA++, (described above); Collection Systems (Project Abstract
Secure, Automatic matching and payments and Payables and Project Reconcile) and Data
Warehousing (statistics and comparative analysis). Unisys discussed also the
implementation of the wide area network in 21 BOC ports, and the modernization of the
agency in general.
The World Bank concluded the first session with two presentations. The first was
"Lessons learnt in Tax administration projects" (by Michael Engelschalk) and the second
one discussed the importance of Public Sector Reform to backup Tax administration
efforts (by Dana Weist).
These introductory presentations got everybody ready for the second agenda item,
undocumented outcomes and benefits that stemmed from the project. The following are
most of the participants' comments on the subject.
II. Undocumented Outcomes and benefits of the project
Usec Guevera, DOF
BOC components have done wonders: "overwhelmed with success"
*   DOF developed comprehensive and functional database to formulate policies and
analyze problems based on TCP data.
*   TCP helped fight corruption, introduced transparency and reduced transaction
costs.
Key to BOC's success was (i) engaging of the private sector; which is even willing
to pay for BOC's services; and mostly, (ii) trade facilitation.
*   Enhanced government expenditure and cash management; during deficit period,
managed cash flow on a day-to-day basis (FINLINK to DBM). Daily forecasts also used
to make decisions for next month based on TCP data.
*    Sustainability could also be insured from the private sector: If project is accepted,
other resources could be made available (A certain Senator contributed his pork barrel to
build a Customs center)



- 47 -
*    Taxpayers would be willing to pay for less staff discretion and better, honest
services.
UNISYS, Tony Tissington
*   commitment of people, and real team work between BOC and its suppliers
(UNCTAD, Unisys)
*   packaging of services - not just hardware, but also better offices, equipment,
processes and even Change Management.
*   workplace modernization benefits in general
*   prepayment of shipment was an excellent innovation in collecting duties and taxes
from importers in a timely manner
*    selectivity allowed increased efficiency in cargo clearance processing
*   computerization - ACOS, (ASYCUDA  ++, Collection System  and data
warehousing) other systems, interfaces to DOF and other government agencies and banks
*   change management achievements
*   Changing attitudes and workplace environment and behavior was a significant
outcome of the project's implementation for BOC. This was mainly due to working with
Development Academy of Philippines in developing change management program; and
closely working with DoF as most directives came from top of DOF and BOC. CM
included awareness surveys, questionnaires and workshops
*    lhuge increase in rollout without any other resources; roll out teams were
extraordinary in gaining acceptance
Efficiency gains BOC has achieved
less paper (fewer opportunities for bribes, streamline procedures)
improved cargo release times (few hours instead of up to 20 days)
*   selectivity improvements
*   cargo inspection improvements
*   pioneers in new frame relay network technology - won awards for using this
technology (led technology development - commercial use) to build a first-class Wide
Area Network (WAN) for the 21 modernized ports
*    Contractor focused on project outcomes (need to get job done) rather than sticking
to the text of the contract's TOR, flexibility and responsiveness to client's need



- 48 -
Comm. Parayno, BOC
*   much of success due to willingness of UNISYS to establish itself as a leader in
customs project integration (willingness to view project implementation as an investment
rather than a source of gains)
*   partnership among DoF, BOC, UNCTAD and UNISYS extraordinary and key to
success
*   Project Enhanced reputation of BOC
*   Level of corruption measured by SWS in 1991: police and customs were tied as
most corrupt agencies (-48 percent)
*    Comments from Federation of Philippines Industry: major change in satisfaction
with how BOC is performing its job especially with regard to graft and corruption
(bureaucratic) -- not as much impact on smuggling
*   International observers have found greater professionalism in BOC staff (belief in
themselves and BOC's mission, and ownership of the Customs modernization project)
relative to 5 years ago (failure to identify with organizational goals)
Ed Campos, DBM
-   Focus on sustainability now that the main achievements have taken place:
Involving private sector may provide some elements of sustainability - private sector
demands may impede political interference (should perhaps be extended to BIR).
*   Need for public sector reform: cannot address institutional issues (possible misuse
of computers - example of property tax payment on and off the table) despite the
systems' built-in audit trail. The reform has to include Civil Service and Judiciary reform
and change many related government processes such as budgetary allocation and overall
agencies' performance management.
NEDA staff
*   Broadening of taxpayer base enhances fairness of tax system, and the TCP has
contributed to increasing the number of registered taxpayers.
*   Need to train government auditors, such as COA staff to work with computers to
understand BIR and BOC's computerization issues.
BIR
*   AC had excellent Filipino partners and that was one of the factors behind the
project's success.



- 49 -
Discussion of Project Outcomes (all participants)
*    Role of Crown Agents provided continuity between DOF, BIR and BOC as CA
established communication standards and change notice management between both
Bureaus and their supplier.
Crown Agents was key to a successful and smooth procurement process.
*   Recognition by Congress, as Legislators' testimonials (both Houses in Congress)
state seeing real improvements in BOC since the TCP was implemented
Trade and export promotion with shorter cargo release times
Simplified immigration and customs forms (1 short form similar to the US entry
Customs form)
*   Leadership in Information technology implementation: BOC pointed the way in
how IT can be used to improve and enhance efficiency of processes, while addressing:
*    Challenges of computerization, decentralization
Information effect on reengineering processes
Need to move fast on technology projects
Seeking partnership with private sector by outsourcing some IT functions
Training and capacity building to BIR and BOC staff in general
Creation of BOC and BIR training centers and programs
Training in tax and customs is essential element of capacity building
*   Technology literacy
*    Change in work processes towards knowledge and analytical work from clerical
functions (BIR and BOC) as:
*   Electronic data transmission greatly enhances timeliness and possibilities for trend
analysis and forecasts (BIR)
*   Previous work was computational rather than analytical (BOC)
*   Future need to make staff analysts and data miners.
(However need for further analysis and intelligence work. Still much has to be done;
BOC would be happy if 3 percent of existing data in its data warehouse were
analyzed systematically towards intelligence and fraud detection purposes)
Cross checking with other institutions (LRA, BOT, etc.) much easier



- 50 -
Enhanced taxpayer awareness regarding filing and compliance.
III. Challenges and Difficulties Encountered in the project
The third section focused on the Challenges and Difficulties encountered in the
project. Participants filled out what they experienced as challenges in the following 13
categories. After that, volunteers reported on each category to the rest of attendees, and
some additional feedback and brainstorming was generated by the attendance.
Reports on Challenges Encountered (ranked from highest to lowest priority)
1. Challenges in GOP support, coordination and ownership
*   Changes in leadership caused discontinuity to policy and direction
*   New BIR Commissioners had their own agenda and one did not support the Large
Taxpayer Services and changed the TCP specifications repeatedly
*   Weak commitment of Government to support/sustain project gains when
administration changed. For example, the Ramos administration was an enthusiastic
supporter of the technology effort but the succeeding administration did not place the
project on top of their priority list.
Wavering political support over changing administrations, lobbying for the
project's benefits and sustainability absorbs agency managers' time.
Administrative arrangements became more difficult with new leaders
Cabinet members place the tax administration budget among lowest priorities (need
for better awareness of sustainability issues with DBM, DoF and Congress)
Leadership and change management functions - There is a real need to create
organizational ownership; however, this is still perceived as external imposition (which
requires top level political leadership) by BIR and BOC
Very unclear division of responsibilities at DOF - confuses staff; DoF had
sometimes several Usecs overseeing TCP, creating confusion and inefficiency
No clarity with respect to authority of DOF over BIR or BOC Commissioners all
are in grades equal to DoF undersecretaries, and this created authority problems and
sometimes minimal teamwork.
FINLINK, one-stop shop should be in the same DOF office that coordinates the
TCP
Higher salaries for technical staff in GOP
New paradigm for IT personnel; consider privatizing or out sourcing options



- 51 -
*   Head of BIR/BOC not protected from harassment, lawsuits, by the private sector; so
the managers may waste their on trivial civil action suits.
Disbursement procedures are long and inefficient between the agencies
Voluminous documents needed for the disbursement process
*   Above two points results in slow release of funds, slow disbursements and hence
Bank rating of the project as Unsatisfactory (June 99)
*   Need for stronger support for Customs Modernization Bill (especially section on
electronic submissions and paperless processing) crucial for adoption of Ecommerce.
2. Challenges in Project Financing
*   Difficulty in requesting funds from DBM. Inadequate counterpart funding, no
guarantee of availability of the Pesos counterpart. Problems with the exchange rate
fluctuations between 1993 and 1999.
*    Sustainability problem: Need additional funds beyond budget for regular
operations.
*   No creative financing scheme or strategy (perhaps using private sector BTO
schemes) to fund the operation of project beyond closing date.
3. Challenges in Legislation and Tax Policies
*   E-commerce bill has not been approved yet. For BIR to be able to process
electronic filing, the e-commerce bill approval is crucial. Today electronic filing and
signatures are not recognized as legal document.
BIR was not consulted when new Government placed emphasis solely on revenue
collection
CTRP developed separately from project - some systems not applicable to new
reform and tax policies. The tax laws should have been reformed before developing the
new tax software system. The approval of CTRP in the middle of the project caused
major disruption.
Legislators impede tax agency's ability to administer taxes - unfunded mandates,
more work for BIR staff to manage new taxes with no increase of personnel.
Whenever laws are changed, lawmakers should consider the effects on current
systems (including consultation with IT professionals). The lack of thereof consultation
reflects a management problem in bureaus - bureau staff always involved in discussion
of changes but IT staff are not included at outset. This lack of communications makes it
very difficult to manage the project.



- 52 -
4. Challenges in Tax administration, organization and procedures
*   The main issues revolve around not having made major changes of policy and
organization nor any procedure streamlining before the Project. Process re-engineering
was needed and was not done.
-   Changes  in  Tax  policy  affected  Tax  administration, which  affected
computerization. All activities (policy, administration and computerization) should be
cohesively planned to work together.
The continuous change of people and positions was very disruptive. The lack of
leadership continuity lessened the project's urgency and importance to the GOP.
New administration meant new policy and strategies, which in turn has an
implication on development; which had to be modified for the new administration.
Form redesign and restructuring of manual processes and procedures occurred after
computerization
Many programs were launched on spiritualism and values that were unrelated to
computerization. In fact, too many things launched at the same time; staff received mixed
signals and too much to learn. While there were many initiatives, these were not part of a
comprehensive overall program
BIR staff were pressured to roll out despite problems (staff performance was
benchmarked on rollouts). That contributed to the loss of sight of the enhancing revenue
collection objective
Too many changes occurred in IT architecture and structure. BIR toggled between
decentralization and centralization.
TCP's implementation had a great impact on organization structure and procedures
on the agency.
No adequate implementation infrastructure was created for the reform process.
BIR's organization is old and outmoded, and its staff skills do not sometimes match its
organizational needs. BIR was not properly organized to assimilate the TCP.
BIR and BOC have no structure to do administration of tax cases.
BIR should increase its audits by immediately making audit selection based on
objective criteria, via computer data, or if not available, via sampling.
Efficiency and fairness of examiners should be rated by computers given some
objective, quantitative criteria complemented by qualitative factors



- 53 -
5. Challenges in Human resources and training
Recruitment and retention of highly skilled personnel: Extremely difficult under
today's defective HR system.
*   Large gap between government and private sector compensation level (contractor
paid staff average pH 50,000/month, GOP paid staff average PhP 14,000/month)
*   Issuance of administrative order 70 and 100 prevents hiring of new personnel
Unreasonable standards for technical (IT) staff defined by Civil Servant
Commission such as having a Master's degree in an MIS-related field from an accredited
Filipino academy or university
Need for continuous technical training program, which was not possible in the
project due to insufficient funding. The continuous training program was needed due to
the several new tools to learn, to the long learning curve, slow staff absorption and to the
need to constantly retrain new staff because of the drain in the IT personnel.
*   Training needed to be hands on, not only CBT or video-based.
*   Retention of Change Management training was needed.
BIR and BOC turnover was a major issue on training (not just technical staff) as
well as RDO heads rotation.
Government personnel stalled from  assuming more active role as long as
consultants were around. This deepened the Bureaus' dependencies on their contractors
and lack of ownership for the software developed.
6. Challenges in Change management and organizational culture
Resistance of personnel in reforms resulted in manual procedures being added to
process as opposed to being changed. The TCP was seen as a radical change instrument
and was vehemently rejected by some. Agency staff should prepare staff in top and
middle management by holding extensive discussions to accept changes first and then
implement them.
Lack of a systematic Change Management (CM) plan. CM should be a critical and
significant component of reform projects such as the TCP. The program would include
values orientation, formation seminars on regular basis and on-going refresher programs
or orientation for new comers.
Cultural issues: There is a tendency to reject what others have accomplished, the
"crab" mentality, big threat to sustainability.
Outcome not linked to financial performance; lack of systematic change
management plan (success measured in number of rollouts and not in broader



- 54 -
institutional objectives). Computerization should not be perceived as the main solution to
improve revenue collections.
*   Assuming that IT will solve problems of corruption is prescribing "aspirin for
cancer".
*   Ability to adapt to the system and use it as a tool for graft and corruption should
apply to both government and private employees.
7. Challenges in Changing Taxpayer attitude and reaction
*   Focus from the beginning on the taxpayer and his education. Adequate program for
taxpayer education came in late in BIR. Had they have been in place in 1996, the 95
percent in suspense rate may have been a lower figure.
Taxpayers did not clearly see TCP's benefits, actually the public reaction was
inconvenience and annoyance towards it.
*   Taxpayers should have benefited from system - system could have helped them
calculate their taxes once they had entered all their family and work information
Taxpayer attitude toward BIR and BOC determine success of any computerization
project. Unfortunately BIR and BOC are still viewed as corruption and graft ridden.
8. Challenges in Relation with contractors and consultants
Adversarial relationship between AC/PS and CA
Crown Agents (CA) got lost in the shuffle, as Andersen Consulting (AC) did not
want it included in the BIR steering committee meetings.
*   Not much trust between AC, Philippines Systems (PS) and users, due to cultural
insensitivity of AC's project director at that time.
AC refused to participate in DOF meetings since they said reported for BIR.
*   CA became too close to BOC and BIR to provide objective advice to DoF.
9.   Challenges in World Bank Assistance
Reengineering or transformation program should be critical component of program.
The World Bank (WB) did not insist on having a transformation program happen before
the project as it was in a rush to move the project to the Board of directors for approval.
There was no provision for the development of a business plan before the
development of the IT Plan for BIR.
*   No tax administrators on any of the supervision missions, just IT specialists.
Project monitoring was IT-based and not Tax administration-based.



- 55 -
*   WB was too optimistic about BIR's absorption of changes and the amount of time
needed to finish the project.
*   BIR discussed issues separately with AC and CA; at the same time, CA was shut
off from the consultative process. The WB did not attempt to correct the situation; nor to
hold joint meetings including CA, ACPS, BIR and DoF.
*   Lack of coordination between World Bank and IMF. Sometimes both organizations
would give conflicting advice and that caused some confusion to BIR.
*   WB did not provide project plan nor adequate indicators and milestones to evaluate
project progress
*   WB should have spent more time pointing out slippage, problems and regressions
and things not turning well in program.
*   WB was too politicized in appraising projects
10. Challenges in Project Design, Planning and Procurement
*   Tradeoff between simplification (simplification of forms suggested by AC knowing
that it would result in high suspense rates)
*   Sustainability issues - budget, staff, leadership, political will and ownership un-
addressed for a long time and only considered towards closure of loan. There should have
been a comprehensive, front-end commitment for sustainability as a pre-condition for
loan approval.
5-year turnkey approach was too ambitious, unpractical and sometimes impossible
for objectives to be achieved over such a short-time span given allocated budget.
Underestimation of complexity of project
Need to reduce project into more manageable identifiable sequential phases, or
"chunks" instead of binding the agencies with one large big design. This issue was raised
at design stage however the World Bank pushed for a single turnkey. A phased approach
(over eight or ten years) would have resulted in simpler smaller pilots, and improved roll-
out cycles (build small modules, test, pilot and roll out)
DOF's need for information for policy and planning was not prioritized in system;
DOF had to do separate project to build database; DOF should have been involved in
planning of system and should be now a user of the ITS.
Did not openly address up front how the new system could be used to identify,
address and eradicate graft and corruption
Government procurement systems impeded system development and improvement.



- 56 -
11. Challenges in Software Development
BIR's Process of re-engineering and forms redesign should have preceded software
development.
Forms should have been simplified for taxpayers.
*   Integration of new systems (BOC and BIR) with existing legacy systems.
*   E-filing and e-payment, as well as automating data capture would have been very
helpful. This could have been done on a BOT basis (Build Operate Transfer).
No computerization strategy, nor plan for the future beyond the loan closing date
*   Changes to UNCTAD core software had to go through Geneva; which slowed
down the process.
BIR significant process changes were made difficult due to contract terms, and
conservative project owners. The contractor' simplification strategies being viewed
suspiciously by client, interpreted as an attempt to do less work and hence rejected.
Now would purchase packaged tax software rather than develop our own
Too little attention was paid to data migration
Establish acceptable procedures for acceptance and payment of goods and services
12. Challenges in Rollout and Usage of New Systems
*   BIR's roll out pilot was too ambitious, not focused on large taxpayers, and
scattered geographically in too many sites
BIR's lack of trained personnel before roll out (roll out was fast tracked to meet
benchmarks)
BOC's personnel resistance to change; low confidence on new system
Rolling-out the software to decentralized agency staff and to banks, while
combining the roll-out with a harmonious training plan and sustaining normal operations
Learning curve of personnel
13.  Other Challenges
Well thought of contingency plan for hand over of project not made
COA auditors not knowledgeable in information technology issues
Policy changes with every new manager



- 57 -
Establish accepted, universal, change control procedures for project
IV. Lessons Learnt
Paradigm for continuity despite administration changes is a must.
Private sector could have a role, in a BOT type relationship with the Bureaus to
improve Service Delivery.
*   Automating Manual procedures is insufficient. A Complete examination of agency
processes, policies and linkages ought to be examined, improved and changed before any
modernization effort is undertaken.
*   Sporadic training is not sufficient. Training should be part of an on-going Change
Management program funded and supported at the highest level.
*   People at the working level must have incentives to keep system. Need a strong,
professional, committed middle management.
Need internal enthusiasm, vision and leadership to sustain the project
Complexity is also a factor of the geographic dispersion and level of
decentralization. The project would have been much easier if it had to be implemented in
the national office only.
V. Future/Next Steps
Need for BIR to implement the IMF's recommendations
Need For Immediate ownership, Leadership and Roadmap
Direction will depend on managing expectations; computerization of both bureaus
can only go so far. The rest is a matter of agency absorption.
Focus
Large Taxpayers are the focus today not the underground economy. The latter
should be officially confronted and eradicated as much possible with the help of the
computer system, and with legislative support.
Use of Third-party Tools
Commissioners have been granted broad powers to use 3rd party information and
this should be fully utilized (change introduced by 1997 tax reform).
Need to enhance 3rd party information (social security, etc.)



- 58 -
*   As a starter for above point, a realistic strategy is to focus on existing databases and
crosscheck information in both (link BIR and BOC's VAT and import information for
instance; for under-declarations).
Solving the IT staff turnover problem
Must find a creative and immediate solution to retaining and improving the training
of competent technical (IT) staff
*   Need for financing of feasibility study of outsourcing (BOT), especially of IT
functions
Need to change the Civil Service laws as the law these cause graft and corruption
Improve Agency Image and Communication to the citizens
GOP must fund and develop a Communications and outreach plan for BIR.
Attrition and redundancy program  to get rid of staff with unsatisfactory
performance in both BIR and BOC. Having good staff improves the Bureaus' image.
Find Creative solutions for budgetary sustainability
Creativity is an answer to concerns of sustainability
New program: super green lane program arose from analysis of data from system
(and desire to loosen controls on "good guys") - expectations are very high. Proposing to
charge a fee (P2500 per transaction) for this program which may address some of
sustainability concerns.
Rewarding internally agency staff who comes with innovative proposals on
bettering the agency's organization, systems or procedures.
Making further efficiency improvements
Move to electronic processing of export clearances - need funding (UNISYS
available for one more year; annual budget has already been expended)



- 59-
Appendix 1
WORLD BANK OFFICE MANILA
REPORT ON THE ICR FINANCIAL EVALUATION
OF THE PHILIPPINES
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT (TCP)
MAY 11, 2000
Manila, Philippines






- 60 -
ICR FINANCIAL EVALUATION
OF THE PHILIPPINES
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT (TCP)
Contents
I Introduction                                                         I
1. Background
2. Objective
3. Coverage
4. Methodology
II Executive Summary                                                   2
III ICR Financial Analysis                                             3
IV Conclusions and Recommendations                                     3
V. List of Annexes                                                     4
1 - Incremental Project Costs 1993 - 2000
1-a Incremental Project Costs 1993-2000 (Actual VS. SAR)
2 - Consolidated Revenues (Actual Collections VS. Target) 1993-2000
2-a Consolidated Revenues (Actual Collection VS. SAR Target)
1993-2000
2-b Bureau of Internal Revenue - Schedule of Collection Target
VS. Actual
2-c Bureau of Customs - Schedule of Collection Target VS. Actual
3 - Financial Rate of Return Calculations
4 - Assumptions for the Project's Financial Rate of Return






- 61 -
FINANCIAL EVALUATION
OF THE PHILIPPINES
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
I Introduction
1. Background
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) prepared on March 31, 1993 for the Philippines
Tax Computerization Project indicated attractive benefits on project returns and recovery
of project costs using the Net Present Value (NPV), Financial Internal Rate of Return
(FIRR), and Benefit-Cost Ratio evaluations. There were likewise other non-financial
benefits cited in the SAR. The project closed last December 31, 1999 and there is now the
need to prepare the project's Implementation Completion Report (ICR). This financial
evaluation is part of the ICR.
2. Objective
The actual benefits from the project are to be evaluated. Likewise, these benefits
should also be looked at in the light of the benefits cited in the SAR, with appropriate
adjustments to be comparable, and of the economic conditions existing during project
implementation. Specifically, the objective of this study is to evaluate benefits from the
project using Annex 12 as well as paragraphs. 4.15 and 4.16 of the SAR.
3. Coverage
The evaluation covered the period 1993- 2000 with the Bureau of Internal
Revenue (BIR) and the Bureau of Customs (BOC) as its major components. It also
covered the regional computerization/large taxpayers where data was available.
4. Methodology
The evaluation mainly used the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) evaluation tools
and the Benefit-Cost Ratio based on DCF results. The DCF tools used are the Net Present
Value (NPV) and the Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR). The framework of
analysis used is that of the Annex 12 of the SAR. The figures in the SAR were deflated
by the reduction in the GDP growth rates so as to be comparable with the actual growth
rates used in the evaluation. Since rollouts only started in 1996, the project benefits
started to be computed only at that year, which represent a 3-year delay on incremental
benefits. As such the SAR figure on 3-year delay has been used.



- 62 -
II. Executive Summary
The benefits from the project were financial and non-financial. The incremental
benefits could only be computed with a 3 year delay starting 1996 due to the fact that
only in 1996 did the roll outs started. On the financial benefits, the project gave a total
incremental collection benefits to the government of about Php 2 trillion from 1996 to
2000 or an equivalent FIRR of 307 % from a total cost of Php 3.35 billion. An attractive
return indeed. The Benefit-Cost Ratio based on present values is about 9, indicating a
highly beneficial undertaking. The NPV of the project's incremental revenues using
interest rates of 10 % to 20 % averages to Php 16 billion. Comparing this to the project's
average cost present value of Php 2 billion, the project earns more than what it costs by
about Php 14 billion.
The foregoing benefits were obtained despite the reduction of almost half of its
assumed GDP growth rates from 7% to an average of 4% as a consequence of a sluggish
economy mainly brought about by the Asian crisis. Comparison to the SAR could not
straight away be made on the peso figures since the GDP growth rates have been
significantly different. Thus based on a revised SAR, imputing the GDP growth changes,
the project attained 90% of the SAR incremental collection targets under a 3-year delayed
benefits comparison. The FIRR of the project of 307 % is higher than the recomputed
SAR FIRR of 210 % mainly because of the heavier initial cash outflow under the SAR.
The benefit cost ratio and NPV of the actual figures and the SAR are not comparable due
to the significant reduction in the GDP and lower collection. Despite all the reduction in
GDP, the project managed to retain its attractiveness of return and cost recovery as a
worthwhile project to sustain.
The non-financial benefits are from the project were easily felt and clearly
noticeable. At the BIR, the computerization of key business processes such as receipts
and reporting of tax payments, among others greatly enhanced employees' productivity.
At the BOC, computerization has improved cargo release time, the selection and extent of
physical and documentary inspection, and the banks' reporting and transmittal of
importer's payment. Improved internal and external communication has also greatly
enhanced the efficiency of both agencies. However, the impact on manpower
productivity in terms of head count and time charges has not yet been established.
III. ICR Financial Analysis
The actual incremental collections from 1996 to 2000 was about Php 2 trillion
which is 90% of the adjusted SAR figures primarily due to the Asian crisis resulting to
sluggish GDP growth (Annex 2-a). This represents an FIRR of 307 %, an NPV of about
Php 19 million compared to cost NPV of about Php 2 billion with a Benefit-Cost Ratio of
9 (Annex 3).  This analysis did not include the other intangible benefits, which are
difficult to quantify, more particularly the economic benefits brought about by



- 63 -
automation and work simplification. By the closing of the project on December 31, 1999,
both agencies met their respective rollout objectives.
IV. Conclusions and Recommendations
In spite of the economic crisis and other difficulties encountered during its
implementation, the TCP achieved reasonable financial benefits, although it did not meet
the target set in the SAR. The benefit-to-cost ratio posted a respectable 9 times at
discount rates ranging from 10% to 20%. Other financial indicators such as internal rate
of return and net present values also showed encouraging marks.  This financial
evaluation did not consider the non-quantifiable economic and social benefits that were
inevitably brought forth by the project. In like manner, revenue losses due to deficiencies
and inefficiencies of the manual system were not quantified. Considering the immediate
and long-term impact of the project not only to the agencies concerned but also to the
Filipino taxpayers as a whole, the overall benefit of the TCP more than compensates its
investment cost.
It is important, however, that the full implementation and operation of the
computerized system be sustained if the government wants to maximize the benefits on
new technology. The planned linkage with other key government agencies is also worth
pursuing; proper and consistent system maintenance, both hardware and software must
also be undertaken. The cooperation and support of the tax-paying public are also greatly
needed to ensure continuing success of the computerization project.
V. Annexes
1 - Incremental Project Costs
2 - Consolidated Revenues
2-a Bureau of Internal Revenue - Schedule of Collection Target VS. Actual
2-b Bureau of Customs - Schedule of Collection Target VS. Actual
3 - Financial Rate of Return Calculations
4 - Assumptions for the Project's Financial Rate of Return






- 64 -
A N N E X E S






- 65 -
Annex 1-a
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
ICR Financial Evaluation
Incremental Project Costs 1993 - 1999
(Actual VS. SAR)
(Billion Pesos)
Year                  Total Expenditures                        SAR
1992        1992      % of Total
BOC        BIR        Total     Prices(1)     Prices    Expenditures
1993       0.1295      0.000       0.130       0.120       0.239        50.421
1994        0.210      0.164       0.374       0.438       0.528       82.966
1995        0.218      0.391       0.610       0.481       0.470       102.306
1996        0.182      0.525       0.706       0.513       0.339       151.466
1997        0.131      0.293       0.424       0.293       0.365        80.236
1998        0.050      0.328       0.378       0.239       0.299        79.705
1999        0.091      0.410       0.501       0.296       0.299        99.015
2000        0.105      0.123       0.228       0.127       0.299         0.423
Total        1 117     2.233]_    3.350         28 2.840                 8.318
Note:
1. Current prices divided inflation factor based on 1992 prices.



- 66 -
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT                                                        Annex 2
ICR Financial Evaluation
Consolidated Revenues (Actual Collection VS. Target) 1993-2000
(Billion Pesos)
Target                            Actual                  Target
Year         BIR       BOC         Total       BIR         BOC         Total    Attainment
1993       143.34       77.55     220.89      145.93       81.97      227.90     103
1994       185.49       84.52     270.00      187.44       81.61      269.05     100
1995       214,11       93.35     307.45      211.46       97.60      309.06     101
1996       258.79      101.35     360.14      256.49      104.57      361.06     100
1997       333.18      110.80     443.98      314.54       94.80      409.34     92
1998       335.06       78.28     413.34      337.64       76.01      413.64     100
1999       353.63       83.64     437.27      341.16       86.50      427.66     98
2000       397.80       91.88     489.68      414.00        93.68     507.68     104
Totals       2221.39     721.35    2942.74      2208.67      716.73     2925.39     99
Note:    The collection data for 2000 was based on annualized first quarter collections of
P82.8 billions for BIR and P28.11 billions (as of April) for BOC.



- 67 -
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT                                       Annex 2-a
ICR Financial Evaluation
Consolidated Revenues (Actual Collection VS. SAR Target) 1996-1999
(Billion Pesos)
Actual       |     _    SAR
Year     BIR        BOC      Current P   1992 P(1)  1992 P(2) % Attainment
1996     256.493   104.566      361.06    262.59      259.06         101
1997     314.542    94.800      409.34    283.28      284.17         100
1998     337.637    76.005      413.64    260.97      293.92          89
1999     341.158    86.497      427.66    253.05      315.02          80
2000(3)    414.000    93.667     507.67     282.04     343.59          82
Totals   1663.830   455.535    2,119.36   1,341.93    1,495.75         90
Notes:
1. Collection at current prices divided by inflation index.
2. Tax effort with the project multiplied by GDP based on 1992 Prices
3. Estimated collections based on first quarter data or P82.8 billions for the BIR
and P28.11 billion for the BOC.
Price Index Calculation at 1992 Base Price
SAR             Actual(Current)
INFLATION            INFLATION
Year      rate     factor      rate      factor
1992    8.90%         1.000    8.90%        1.000
1993    5.60%         1.056    7.60%       1.076
1994    6.00%         1.119    9.00%       1.173
1995    7.00%        1.198    8.10%        1.268
1996    7.00%         1.282    8.45%        1.375
1997    7.00%         1.371    5.10%        1.445
1998    7.00%         1.467    9.70%       1.585
1999    7.00%        1.570    6.60%        1.690
2000    7.00%         1.680    6.50%        1.800



- 68 -
Annex 2-b
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
ICR Financial Evaluation
BUREAU OF INTERNAL REVENUE
Schedule of Collection Target VS. Actual (1993-1999)
(In Billion Pesos)
.I 1993     1994     1995      1996      1997      1998     1999
Total Number of computerized RDOs                        4         5         9        9
Computerized RDOs
Actual                                             27.581    43.749   156.499  157.231
Target                                             33.615    48.326   180.093   164.82
% Attainment                                         82%       91%       87%      95%
Non Computerized RDOs
Actual                145.931  187.444  211.462  228.912   270.792   181.138  183.927
Target                143.336  185.486  214.105  225.176   284.849  174.971  188.812
% Attainment            102%     101%       99%     102%       95%      104%      97%
Grand total
Actual                145.931  187.444  211.462  256.493   314.542  337.637  341.158
Target                143.336  185.486  214.105  258.791   333.175  355.064  353.632
% Attainment            102%     101%       99%      99%    94%          95%      96%
Incremental Collections     12.027   41.513   24.018   45.031    58.048   23.095    3.522
Growth Rate                 8.98%   28.45%   12.81 %   21.30%    22.63%     7.34%1  1.04%



- 69 -
Annex 2-c
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
ICR Financial Evaluation
BUREAU OF CUSTOMS
Schedule of Collection Target vs. Actual (1993-1999)
(Billion Pesos)
Increment
Year       Target        Actual      Attainment    Amount        Percent
1993          77.550        81.971     106%             9.101    12.49%
1994          84.515        81.610      97%            (0.361)   -0.44%
1995          93.345        97.601     105%            15.991    19.59%
1996         101.348       104.566     103%             6.965     7.14%
1997         110.801        94.800      86%            (9.766)   -9.34%
1998          78.279        76.005      97%           (18.795)   -19.83%
1999          83.637        86.497     103%            10.492    13.80%



- 70 -
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT                                                             Annex 3
ICR Financial Evaluation
Financial Rate of Return Calculations (Consolidated - BIR and BOC)
(Billion Pesos)
GDP           Tax Effort  Tax Effort    Total    Project Benefits(3 Years Delay)
Real       1992      Without    With the     Project   Incremental         Net
Year  Growth(1)   Prices(2)    Project   Project(3)   Expenses   Collection       Benefit
1351.559
1993    1.39%     1370.313    15.53%      15.46%         0.130        0.000       -0.130
1994    5.40%     1444.242    15.61%      15.88%         0.374        0.000       -0.374
1995    4.11%     1503.603    15.69%      16.21%         0.610        0.000       -0.610
1996    5.06%     1579.611    15.76%      16.62%         0.706        13.65       12.942
1997    6.07%     1675.533    15.77%      16.91%         0.424        19.03       18.606
1998    0.41%     1682.430    15.78%      15.51%         0.378         0.00       -0.378
1999    5.13%     1768.784    15.79%      14.31%         0.573         0.00       -0.573
2000    5.00%     1857.220    15.80%      15.19%         0.156         0.00       -0.156
Total                                                    3.351       32.678       29.327
Notes:                                  FIRR                                      307.35%
1. (GDP CY-GDP PY) I GDP PY
2. GDP current year divided by            Discount
inflation factor during the year        Rate                    Present Values
3. Tax collection to GDP ratio at           10%            2.21        21.14        18.93
current prices                           12%            2.05        19.47       17.42
14%            1.91        17.97       16.06
16%            1.77        16.60       14.82
20%            1.55        14.23       12.67
Benefit Cost Ratio (Times)
10%                     9.6
12%                     9.5
14%                     9.4
16%                     9.4
20%                     9.2
GDP Calculation
GDP
Year          INFLATION           1992       Current
rate(1)    factor(2)   Prices(3)   Prices(4)
1992      8.90%       1.000     1351.559    1351.559
1993      7.60%       1.076     1370.313    1474.457
1994      9.00%       1.173     1444.242    1693.865
1995      8.10%       1.268     1503.603    1906.328
1996      8.45%       1.375     1579.611    2171.922
1997       5.10%      1.445     1675.533    2421.306
1998       9.70%      1.585     1682.430    2667.106
1999      6.60%       1.690     1768.784    2989.065
2000      6.5%(5)      1.800    1857.220    3343.000
Notes:
1   NEDA Statistics
2 Previous Year's inflation factor X (Current Year's Inflation Rate + 1)
3   GDP Current year divided by Inflation factor for the year
4   Major Statistical Indicators (BIR Statistics Division)
5   Estimate based on fist quarter average monthly inflation rates



- 71 -
Annex 4
TAX COMPUTERIZATION PROJECT
ICR Financial Evaluation
Assumptions for the Project's Financial Rate of Return
1. All costs and expenses are stated at actual or current prices when they are incurred and have
been restated at 1992 prices.
2. All incremental costs during the project period are included in the project costs.
3. Foreign exchange transactions are converted into PhP at the exchange rate prevailing on the
transaction dates. Taxes and duties are excluded.
4. The project average useful life is estimated at 5 years. However, since different project
components were not in operation by the fifth year , the project useful life is assumed to be
completed beyond the year 2001 as initially estimated.



- 72 -
Final Versiop - February 2, 2000                               Republic of the Philippines
Department of Finance
Bureau of Internal Revenue
National Office Building
BIR Road, Diliman 1100
ureau o tema Kevenue
BIR Implementation
Completion Report
*          *                                  S *  *  .   *          *0  
BIR TaC Computerization Project
World Bank Loan No. 3603 PH
:   *. 0 i.',                                      -    eX\ > -U  



- 73 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Table of Contents
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ....................................1I
B. Achievement of Objectives .....................................                 .         1I
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................................3
D. Project Sustainability .....................................5
E. Bank Performance .....................................5
F. Borrower Performance ....................................7
G. Assessment of Outcome .....................................7
H. Future Operations .....................................8
I. Key Lessons Leamed .....................................9
Annex A - Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ....................................                                         A-1
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ....................................                                     A-2
Table 3: Project Timetable ....................................                                              A-2
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........ A-3
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................. A-3
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................................................... A-4
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project ......................................................                A-
Table 8A: Project Costs .......................................................                              A-6
Table 8B: Project Financing ......................................................                           A-7
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................................                    A-7
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .......................................................                  A-8
Table 11: Compliance with Operatlonal Manual Sl                                iiiii1   l                                           _
*    s                 E. ..}. "  2-.. ,'7,7 a



- 74 -
Final Version - February 2,2000
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (no data available) .............................. A-8
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ...........................................  A-8
Annex B - Other Tables
Table I - Capability Rollout Status (as of Dec. 29,1999) .................................... B-1
Table 2 - 1"t Semester CY2000 Rollout Plan ...........................................   B-2
Annex C - Results of lIS User Survey
Annex D - PTCP Interviews



-75-
Final Version - February 2, 2000
BIR hnplementation
Completion Report
BIR TCaC Computerization Project
A. StatementVEvaluation of Objectives
The main objective of the Philippine Tax Computerization Project has been established as fol-
lows:I
"to support improvement in tax administration by providing technical assistance, staff train-
ing, hardware, software and priority equipment andfacilities. This will make the tax admini-
stration more efficient and accelerate the process and collection of revenues and improve the
access and auditability of tax records. "
The project strives to improve tax administration. However, it does not set increased revenues as
its direct objective. This is taken from the context that computerization by itself cannot bring
about increased revenues in the midst of an economic crisis, or when certain basic reforms have
not yet been set in place.
The TCP (1993-1999) was a project of enormous scope for BIR. Fourteen (14) project steering
committees were organized, peopled by both the BIR and AC-PS2 personnel in order to develop
and rollout the ITS systems to 41 Revenue District Offices (RDOs), 7 Regional Revenues Offices
(RRs), 5 Revenue Data Centers (RDCs) and of course to the National Office itself. There were
major project risks foreseen: the procurement process, the fast turnover of personnel and the ac-
ceptance of new procedures on the operations of the Bureau. The project design minimized these
risks through a transparent system of procurement for a turn-key contract, the massive training
programs included in the project (which provided for expected staff attrition), a change manage-
ment program and the suppliers initially operating the systems with the potential to extend this as-
sistance if needed.
B. Achievenent of Objectives
1. Attainment of physical objectives. As previously mentioned, the project did not set a revenue
target for itself, but rather in terms of rolled out systems and sites (Annex B, Table 2). The project
met its rollout objective in bringing the Integrated Tax System to 5 Revenue Data Centers (RDCs),
7 Revenue Regional Offices (RROs), 41 Revenue District Offices, and of course to the National
World Bank Staff Appraisal Report, March 15, 1993
2 Andersen Consulting - Philippine Systems Products, Inc. The winning consoqium for the BIR component
of the Philippine Tax Computerization Project  m



- 76 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Office, with these offices representing about 90% of BIR's total revenue intake. Seven major ca-
pabilities from the 14 ITS systems were rolled out to to replace the manual system of processing
data at the computerized RDOs. Further, the Limited Bank Data Entry (LBDE) System was op-
erationalized in 115 RDOs, the Large Taxpayer's Division and three (3) Special Industry Groups.
These applications and their underlying business processes continue to undergo enhancements to
respond to evolving taxpayer and operational requirements or new legislation. An example of a
system change which was not part of the original design was the Tax Reforrn Act of 1997 (Re-
public Act 8424), popularly called the CTRP, or Comprehensive Tax Reform Program.
2.  Institutional development. The Bureau undertook many institutional strengthening measures to
show its commitment to make the project succeed. Some of these measures include: a) creation of
the Infornation Systems Group, under the leadership of the newly created position of Deputy
Commissioner for ISG; b) creation of the Revenue Data Centers, a new BIR organizational unit; c)
involvement of scores of BIR IT and non-IT personnel in the systems development process to en-
sure that the requirements of BIR are reflected in ITS; d) implementation of a change management
program for values formation of BIR staff, for rollout support and for enhancement of communi-
cations, to ensure the readiness of stakeholders involved in the project; and e) implementation of
the largest technical and user training exercise of BIR in its history.
3.  Attainment of beneficiary objectives. Project beneficiaries in general are happy with ITS. A
beneficiary survey was conducted during September-October, 1999 in order to validate the attain-
ment of objectives of the different beneficiaries of the BIR TCP. It focused on three beneficiary
groups: BIR management (assistant commissioners, regional directors, revenue district officers
and division chiefs) and BIR users (technical staff and rank and file), large taxpayers and accred-
ited agent banks (Annex C).
a)  BIR users. The survey showed that majority of BIR users surveyed agree that the ITS is a useful
productivity tool. While more users agree that ITS generally produces information that is accurate
and readily available, a substantial number of the respondents remained undecided. Practical sug-
gestions were made by actual users on how to improve on various aspects of the TCP.
b) Large taxpayers. The large taxpayer respondents were unanimous that computerization will en-
courage accurate information from taxpayers. Majority believe that it will assure taxes are prop-
erly credited to government and that BIR's web page and information kiosks were helpful for
them in obtaining tax information
c)  Accredited Agent Banks. Majority of the surveyed banks believed that the Limited Bank Data
Entry system supplied by BIR for their use generated accurate and up-to-date information. On the
negative side however, more banks feel BIR does not provide timely feedback on erroneous bank
reports, as compared to those who expressed satisfaction.
4.  Other objectives met. Other achievements of the TCP were the setting up of the 5 Revenue Data
Centers, which are responsible for processing data and documents regarding taxpayer transactions;
the National Training Center and Cebu Training Center were also established and have been the
venue for the various technical and ITS business training of more than 6,000 BIR personnel. In-
formation Kiosks and the BIR Web Page were also established to serve the public and meet the
communication requirements of the Bureau.
5. Comparative Revenue Performance. During the implementation period, collections from RDOs
that were computerized since 1996 until the end of 1999 experienced an average of 18.7% growth,
while non-computerized RDOs only experienced an 8.4% growth. RDOs computerized since
1997 up to end of 1999 experienced a 17% collections growth, versus only a 7.28% growth in
non-computerized RDOs. RDOs computerized since 1998 up to 1999 experienced a revenue
growth of 5.9% versus only a revenue growth of 2.0 % for non-pilot RDOs (refer to Annex A, ta-
ble 9). It is clear that computerized RDOs have performed better than non-computerized ones.
However, it is difficult to conclude that computerization has been the sole cause for the difference



- 77 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
in performance, as there are many other independent variables that affect revenue collections.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
I. Factors Generally Not Subject to Government's Control
a)  Economic crisis. The Philippine economy in the last five years experienced a temporary
boom, but was cut short by the Asian economic crisis. The shrinkage of the economy became
evident in BIR's 1999 revenues, which was off its target..
b) Rapid advancement in computer technology. Over the five-year term of the project, many
computer hardware items that were delivered in the early part of the contract had become out-
dated towards the end of the contract, necessitating further outlays for their replacement.
2.  Factors Generally Subject to Government's Control
a)  Project scope. The development and implementation of fourteen major systems exceeded the
Bureau's ability to implement in a single project in five years, and may have caused some in-
stitutional indigestion, so to speak. It may have been more effective to divide the project into
four separate modules: i) Core ITS (Integrated Tax System), consisting of Registration,
Collections, Returns and Taxpayer Accounting; ii) Expanded ITS, consisting of Accounts
Receivable, Taxpayer Reconciliation, Tax Credits and Refunds, Excise Tax, Audit Selection,
Returns Compliance, National Office MIS; iii) Office Automation, consisting of Case
Monitoring, Documents Tracking, Legal Information System, office productivity tools and
Internet and Intranet web and email applications; and iv) Internal Administration Systems,
consisting of the Financial Management Information System, Human Resources Information
System and its sub-components, Fixed Assets System and the Accountable Forms System.
Unlike the current ITS design, each system should have its own core management reports, and
not lumped into NOMIS. The deferral of NOMIS implementation also deferred the availabil-
ity of key reports in the initial systems. It may have been possible to implement Office Auto-
mation and Internal Administration using suppliers different from the ITS supplier. Given the
same five-year period, it may have been better to program the duration of each phase not to
exceed 24 months, although the Expanded ITS should sequentially be after Core implementa-
tion.
b)  Use of Project Supervision Consultant. The use of Crown Agents as the Project's procure-
ment consultant allowed a very transparent and expeditious procurement process that was
lauded by a special committee created by the Office of the President to look into IT procure-
ments of government.
c)  Counterpart funding and project tax exemption. A large portion of the local counterpart
funds was used for the payment of customs duties and VAT. The counterpart funds for taxes
needed an annual congressional appropriation. Likewise, the project's taxability, in conjunc-
tion with World Bank's rule that no part of the loan could be used to pay taxes, made project
disbursement accounting complex. Project funding and disbursement procedures could have
been greatly simplified if the project were declared tax exempt in the loan agreement.
d)  Implementation of CTRP. The Comprehensive Tax Reform Program (CTRP) which took
place in the fourth year of the BIR TCP, caused the introduction of some critical changes in
ITS, as well as the indefinite deferral of the Excise Tax System.
e)  Salary levels, senior staffing, consultant support. Unfortunately throughout the project
life, BIR was unable to break out of the Salary Standardization Law, which kept technical
salaries much lower than market rates. Hiring senior staff has been next to impossible, while



- 78 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
retaining trained senior IT staff has become extremely difficult. This continues to be a major
challenge of the project at this time.
f) No DOF project component. A separate loan and project component for DOF (including
the One-Stop-Shop) may have facilitated a more formal way of addressing DOF's own inter-
nal and PTCP-related information requirements. However, such requirements were regarded
as merely accidental in the specification and delivery of BIR and BOC's systems. This may
have caused a perception of lack of responsiveness of the BIR systems to DOF's require-
ments.
g) DOF-BIR communications. During the early part of the project, the PTCP Steering Com-
mittee chaired by DOF exercised an oversight role over the project, which included the review
of important change notices and activities at BIR and BOC. Because of the critical and nu-
merous activities involved in the passage of the Comprehensive Tax Reform Program, the
PTCP Steering Committee was unable to meet regularly. This lack of communication be-
tween DOF and BIR led to the development of alternative monitoring activities by DOF. An
example was DOF's countersignature requirement on all applications for withdrawal by BIR
and BOC, which added to the payment processing time for supplier invoices.
h) FINLINK. The objective to electronically connect different revenue agencies through
FINLINK was laudable and worthwhile. However, the connected agencies did not fully utilize
the available hardware infrastructure, presumably because each agency was too involved in its
own applications development priorities. FINLINK would have been more effective with
stronger leadership that could compel connected agencies to develop resource-sharing appli-
cations.
3. Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency's Control
a) RDC-RDO concept. The 1993 Invitation for Bids requested a centralized database with mir-
ror datasets at the RDOs to ensure that the file-anywhere and the pay-anywhere concepts
could be easily implemented. However, lack of good RDO sites prevented RDO-based data-
bases. Because of this, BIR management authorized only seven revenue data centers to be
shared by RDOs. Recently, BIR management initiated encoding to be devolved back to the
RDOs. In the future, BIR is looking forward to a centralized database which can more effec-
tively handle out-of-district transactions while saving on RDC-based systems administration
costs.
b) Taxpayer registration. After the 5-point reform recommendation regarding the replacement
of the TAN with the TIN, BIR made significant progress in building a TIN database. This
database was however initially disregarded when a decision was made to implement the Tax-
payer Record Update (TRU) program, requiring taxpayers covered by pilot RDOs to re-
register. This caused confusion among taxpayers when banks refused to accept returns and
payments even if the taxpayer already had a previously registered TIN. Because the practice
tended to discourage tax payments, the TIN requirement was eventually relaxed to allow pre-
viously registered TINs.
c) Multiple pilot rollouts and business process-reengineering. The six pilot rollouts of ITS
revealed the weakness of the system brought about by insufficient prior business process
reengineering. This large number of pilot sites also spread the problem resolution capabilities
of the Bureau too thinly. Subjected to the harsh realities of field testing, the system fought
hard to stay on track despite mounting suspense rates and taxpayer complaints. On hindsight,
ITS would have benefited more from a separate preparatory phase consisting of stakeholder
buy-in (including users, taxpayers, CPAs and banks), re-engineered procedures, and simpli-
fied tax forms.



- 79 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
d) Collection through banks. During the early part of the project, BIR enjoyed significant lev-
erage for additional services from the Banking community because of the ten-day float given
to banks on tax collections they received. This leverage was considerably reduced when DOF
asked BIR to impose a shorter five-day float. The banks' float income could have been more
effectively used by BIR to obtain concessional services from the banks, more particularly re-
turns encoding services.
e) Audit implementation. ITS based the selection of audit candidates principally on the com-
pletion of taxpayer returns and the details of the Account Information Form (AIF), a new tax
form required from taxpayers. The poor taxpayer compliance on both returns and AIF made
it impossible to use information from these forms as basis for audit selection. Because of this,
the entire audit functionality was not implemented. On hindsight, it would still have been pos-
sible to implement at least Case Monitoring, Document Tracking and Assessment issuance,
which were also audit functionalities available from ITS.
f) Transitions in leadership. While the project has relatively done well in adjusting to changes
in leadership, each change brought in its own direction and priorities which affected the proj-
ect. For instance, Commissioner Liwayway Vinzons-Chato prioritized full implementation of
ITS which eventually resulted in multiple roll-outs sites. On the other hand, Commissioner
Beethoven L. Rualo implemented a phased approach for ITS rollouts.
D. Project Sustainability
1. General forecast on sustainability.
a. Plus points. The prognosis for BIR TCP sustainability is very good. Application systems
have been developed. Rollouts to 5 RDCs and 41 RDOs have been attained. A system of
self-correction and system-improvements has been initiated with the rolled-out modules of
ITS. A core ITS applications maintenance team, a rollout team and trained users are available
to improve, make-available and use ITS. DOF has expressed its full support in looking into a
long-ranged solution to the funding of BIR's tax computerization budget.
b. Drawbacks. a) The low salaries mandated by Salary Standardization Law continue to inhibit
hiring while BIR is helpless in retaining trained technical staff who have served their training
service contracts; b) The current budgeting cycle allows only for single-year contracts, which
run counter to the multi-year cycles of IT projects, c) Minimalist budgets approved by Con-
gress do not allow for any capability growth in BIR's computerized systems;
2. Possible follow-on efforts. Certain follow-on efforts will greatly enhance project
sustainability. Some of these include: a) Project preparation assistance to identify, cost out
and specify terms of reference for a broad-based revenue technical assistance project for tax
administration effectiveness; b) development of a legislative proposal to exempt BIR from the
Salary Standardization Law; c) initiatives to fully realize the concept of near-zero encoding
for BIR, including efforts for Internet-based electronic filing and payment of taxes; d) indus-
try-oriented taxpayer monitoring approaches; and e) follow-through of the tax computeriza-
tion bill providing automatic funding for the tax computerization program.
E. Bank Perfornance
I. Task Management History.



- 80 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Project preparation began in late 1990, when the World Bank under its Task Manager Claudio
Fernandez entered into discussions with BIR regarding the possible financing of the Tax Comput-
erization Project. At that time, BIR had just received a $600T grant from the Asian Development
Bank to finance the finalization of the Bureau's Information Systems Plan, as well as to develop a
Value Added Tax System (VATIS). This contract was awarded by ADB to the Crown Agents for
Oversea Governments and Administrations, Ltd. , a UK-based tax administration consulting firm.
ADB was not ready to proceed further with a subsequent loan component for the project, which
led the World Bank to initiate further project preparation activities towards an eventual project
loan. Part of the preparation activities organized by the bank were two study missions conducted
with the IMF: one for BIR in January, 1991 and another for BOC in October, 1991. The January
mission resulted in a 5-point reform program for BIR which included among other, the replace-
ment of the Tax Account Number (TAN) with the Tax Identification Number (TIN) and the crea-
tion of a Large Taxpayer's Division. These became conditionalities to the loan. The October mis-
sion on the other hand resulted in an 11-point program for BOC.
As a result of the review missions, the Bank authorized an $800T grant for the preparation of an
Information Systems Strategic Plan for BOC, and Invitation for Bids, for both BIR and BOC. For
this purpose, the Bank engaged Crown Agents in its capacity as a noted international procurement
firm to continue this next stage of the project.
Mr. Fernandez, with the assistance of Mr. Antoun Moussa, developed a draft of a comprehensive
Staff Appraisal Report by December, 1992, which was then finalized by March, 1993. Loan Ne-
gotiations commenced also this month. The Loan Agreement was finally signed in July of 1993,
and became effective in December of the same year.
The excellent project preparation and loan appraisal activities of the bank allowed for a smooth
transition into project supervision, which occurred twice a year. Despite the untimely death of the
Bank's project prime mover, Claudio Fernandez in June of 1994, project momentum was fully in
place, and contract signing continued for both Andersen-Consulting/PSPI and Unisys with BIR
and BOC respectively, were consummated in July of that year.
The project received prompt attention from the Bank with respect to project supervision queries
and actions over the loan implementation period. Task management was initially headed by Mr.
Moussa, who later shared the role with Ms. Shamima Khan. In 1997, Ms. Khan was reassigned to
another role in the bank. Mr. Moussa assumed the full task management role, until November
1998 when he retired from the Bank. Ms. Samia Melhem, who accompanied Mr. Moussa during
the Novermber, 1998 mission, formally took over task management in March of 1999.
2. Comments on Bank Performance.
Bank performance was laudable throughout the process, facilitating sustainable implementation
despite changes in GOP and project leadership. Certain aspects however could have been put in
place that may have improved project design and implementation. Some of these include the fol-
lowing:
a)  The Bank could have provided increased project and financial management training regarding
its reporting requirements from the project, as well as periodically monitored compliance
against such Bank standards.
b) The Bank could have insisted on a tax-exempt treatment for the project in the loan agreement.
The Bank's rule that no part of loan proceeds could be used in the payment of taxes made dis-
bursement accounting more complicated, and caused an underutilization of loan funds, since
local funds had to be used for the portions that the bank would not disburse for.



- 81 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
c) While the 1991 IMF specified reforms were useful in addressing macro-level areas of atten-
tion, the Bank could have insisted on a follow-on business process-reengineering project in
the project design, prior to computerization. This could have been mandated for registration,
collections, returns filing and audit, and could have eliminated many causes of suspense
transactions during pilot testing.
F. Borrower Perfonnance
1. Borrower Project Management History.
Project preparation, appraisal and implementation activities for the PTCP were cast in an envi-
ronment of transitions in GOP leadership. DOF leadership had moved from Estanislao, to Leung,
del Rosario, de Ocampo, Enriquez, Espiritu and finally Pardo. BIR moved from Ong, Chato,
Rualo and finally Fonacier. Despite these changes, GOP perfornance did not suffer significantly
during these transitions. This may be attributed to the strong secondary leadership and contrac-
tor/consultant support during project preparation and implementation. In DOF, Usec. Guevara
provided continuity despite the changes of department secretaries. In BIR, Deputy Commission-
ers Deoferio, Carreon and Guillermo provided the needed continuity and project leadership, with
DCIR Guillermo being present since project inception till closing. The continuing support of
Crown Agents and AC-PS in BIR allowed for uninterrupted handovers during changes in leader-
ship.
2. Comments on Borrower Performance.
The BIR TCP was undoubtedly one of the largest government computerization efforts ever at-
tempted in Philippine history. Throughout the project preparation and implementation phases, full
support was available from BIR management with respect to the provision of resources and com-
plementary policies supportive of the project. Most of these are shown in section B.2 of this re-
port. In addition, some other key evidences of Bureau commitment to the project include:
a) Active involvement of the Commissioner as chairperson of the Management Advisory Com-
mittee, the top policy committee for the BIR TCP, and in providing solutions to TCP obsta-
cles. An example of this is the simplification moves directed by Commisioner Rualo to limit
data entry in the returns, to limit rollouts to key ITS applications, to provide data encoding at
the RDOs and to focus rollouts on large RDOs;
b) Continuing efforts of both the Bureau and its suppliers to understand the reasons for initial
rollout problems, and institutionalization of a system of feedback and correction of such
problems.
G. Assessment of Outcome
1. Versus stated objectives.
Based on the stated objectives of the TCP in the staff appraisal report, the Tax Computerization
Project (TCP) satisfactorily achieved its main objective: "to support improvements in tax admini-
stration by providing technical assistance, staff training, hardware, software and priority equip-
ment and facilities." To quote the December, 1999 Aide Memoire of IMF entitled "Philippines:
Future Directions for the Bureau of Internal Revenue's Tax Computerization Project:" it states:
"Many, countries, including some developed ones, would welcome the opportunity to have such a
computing infrastructure and comprehensive suite of application systems to carry out their tax
administration work."



- 82 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
2. Revenue growth expectation.
It should be noted however that so far, the project's unstated objective to radically improve total
revenues has not yet been met, although as shown in Table 9, it can be said that computerized
RDOs consistently perform better than non-computerized RDOs.
3. Institutional development.
Institutional development (improvements in the "rules of the game") in the tax collection has been
attained. Tax collection information is encoded by banks, and electronically transmitted to BIR
within 24 hours. Tax identification numbers are issued within 20 minutes in most cases. A wide
area network connecting BIR computers across the country is now in place. Where before many
BIR personnel were afraid to use computers, the continuing training programs of the Bureau have
not only provided new skills but have also positively shaped attitudes of both management and
staff computer users on the benefits of computers in BIR's work. A continuing values improve-
ment program allows BIR staff to appreciate their sensitive stewardship role over govemment
collections.
4. Risks.
The project's technical momentum is in place, with ITS systems developed, computer systems
rolled out, and its users trained. The main sustainability risk however is project funding. Suffi-
cient long-term funds must be allocated for the project in order for it to undertake multi-year
outsourcing contracts. This can be attained if computerization funds are assured at the Develop-
ment Budget Coordinating Council (DBCC) level, the highest budget allocation body in govern-
ment. The Tax Computerization Bill will also ensure these funds, when the bill is approved by
Congress. A follow-on loan for certain project requirements (ITS and hardware enhancements,
business reengineering, internal admin systems and a new organization study) will help BIR meet
its sustainability challenges.
The other risk to sustainability is the need for BIR to hire and retain technical personnel. Given its
low salary rates, many of its computer staff would prefer to seek private or international employ-
ment after they have received training and reference experience at BIR. A legislated solution re-
leasing BIR from the Salary Standardization Law is a preferred direction in this regard.
H. Future Operations
1. Strategy for future operations.
a.  CY 2000. TCP wind-down operations will continue up to April, 2000 as the Bureau pays off
its final obligations with its suppliers. A small facilities management contract is expected to
be implemented early in the year using local funds. Rollouts to about 50 non-Metro-Manila,
Metro-Cebu RDOs will continue. Full rollout of the complete ITS systems will be piloted in
some RDCs, ROs and RDOs. Project preparation activities are expected to begin with the
Bank or potential donors regarding a proposed revenue technical assistance project (RTAP),
which may include linkages with the Public Sector Reform Loan. RTAP is expected to ad-
dress the many small, yet important areas for consultancy studies such as industry-oriented
business process reengineering, tax knowledge database development, electronic filing and
tax reporting and other tax-specific administrative enhancements.
b.  Beyond CY 2000. The Tax Computerization Bill is expected to be enacted in 2000, for im-
plementation in 2001. This bill will assure BIR's receipt of 1/4th of 1% of its previous year's
collections for the next two years, and 1/5"h of 1% thereafter. The donor-assisted project
preparation activities are expected to materialize in the form of business reengineering studies
and tax policy studies. The reorganizational realignment of ISG as a byproduct of the Tax



- 83 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Computerization Bill's approval is also expected to take place in CY 2001. More taxpayer
service facilities in the form of a customer call center and electronic filing capability are ex-
pected to be in place. Linkages to other government agencies such as the Bureau of Customs,
the Land Transportation Office, Land Registration Authority and local government units will
help surface under-declaration of tax liabilities, asset holdings that are inconsistent with in-
come taxes declared, and identification of non-filers (or the underground economy). It is rec-
ommended that the Bank's Operations Evaluation Division conduct its impact evaluation after
the end of 2002, by which time ITS rollouts have been completed and impact to beneficiaries
are more apparent.
2. Performance Indicators. The following indicators are expected to monitor the Bureau's ef-
fectivity in managing the performance of its IT operations (Annex A, Table 6):
1. Number of Rollouts to BIR field offices
2. Revision of key business processes
3. Activated 3rd party linkages
4. Results of user surveys
5. Increase in revenues in targeted industry groups
6. Increased throughput rates of key transactions
1. Key Lessons Leamed
1. Reengineering and project phasing. A preliminary project phase dedicated to reengineering
core business processes should have preceded ITS development. Systems development and
installation could have been divided into four separate projects: Core ITS, Expanded ITS, Of-
fice Automation and Internal Administration Systems. Expanded ITS should be developed
only after the core has been piloted. Office Automation and Internal Administration can be
performed simultaneously with ITS by separate suppliers.
2.  Pilot testing. Pilot testing should have been limited to only one or two RDOs and one RDC at
most. Piloting to six RDOs dissipated problem resolution resources.
3.  Staff hiring and retention. Training contracts are generally inadequate in ensuring that tech-
nical staff do not resign for better paying jobs elsewhere. A basic market-oriented realign-
ment of salaries is required to attract and retain technical staff. This is not to disregard the
value of overtraining of staff numbers to anticipate attrition, which although expensive, can
work if done on an annual program basis to fill-up yearly manpower requirement quotas. Suf-
ficient funds for training should be provided.
4.  Taxpayer education. No matter how imperfect the tax forms, if taxpayers are properly edu-
cated, they will be able to fill up the forms correctly, minimizing suspense returns. A truly
extensive tax campaign to educate taxpayers should be done prior to rollout activities.
5.  Consultant support. The engagement of procurement and project supervision consultants
have been very helpful to the Bureau in ensuring appropriate specifications, a transparent pro-
curement process, and a means to provide check and balance on the requests and claims of
suppliers.
6.  DOF component. A separate project component for DOF could have responded more posi-
tively to DOF's information requirements, rather than merely depending on BIR's available
reporting provided by ITS. Regular conduct of the steering committee meetings would have
facilitated better communication between DOF and BIR.
7.  Project continuity. One of the beneficial effects of a multi-year project supervised by a donor
agency is that the project is more resilient to the deleterious effects of leadership changes in



- 84 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
government. This project is a case in point, as bank task management, with the assistance of
bureau project management was able to provide remarkable project continuity despite four
changes in BIR commissioners and six changes in DOF secretaries over the project period.
8. To Centralize or Decentralize. One of the key design decisions during the development of
the Information Systems Strategic Plan in 1992 was the choice between a centralized or de-
centralized database approach. While a centralized database approach was initially preferred
because of its functional simplicity, a hybrid approach with both a centralized database with
decentralized mirror datasets was selected, primarily because the poor communication lines
and continuous power outages in 1992 made it necessary for the RDOs to have the capability
for stand-alone processing. A centralized database would have been simpler to implement
and would have simplified the handling of out-of-district transactions, immediately facilitat-
ing the file anywhere and pay anywhere concepts.
9. Tax exemption of project. The project could have simplified its procedures for budgetary
requests and project disbursements if the project were declared tax-exempt from the start
(through the loan agreement).



- 85 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Annex A - Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial    Partial   Negligible    Not applica-
Macroeconomic policies            E                          l El
Sector policies                   El           El            El
Financial objectives              a                          El
Institutional development        Eil                                       El
Physical objectives                            Eli                        E
Poverty reduction                 El                                        El
Gender concerns                   El            l            EK
Other social objectives           E            El
Environmental objectives          aEl                        El
Public sector management                        J                          
Public sector development         El                         E              El
Others (specify)                  a            El            El1
Likely      Unlikely       Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability                       Eli            El O
Highly
C. Bank Performance           Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                     l                           El 
Preparation assistance            El           ERi
Appraisal                                       El             El
Supervision                                                   E1  l
Highly
D. Borrower performance       Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                       E                            EVI
Implementation                    El                           El1
Covenant compliance               El                           El
Operation                         a                            El
Highly                                 Highly Un-
satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   satisfactoy
E. Assessment of Outcome          EJ                         El             El



- 86 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Table 2: Relted Bank LoanslCredits
Year of
Loan/credit title             Purpose            approval          Status
Preceding operations
I. Japanese Grant   For procurement phase       1992        Completed
($ 800,000)
2. Japanese Grant   Advance payment for Project  1993       Completed
Supervision Contract
($ 200,000)
Following operations
1. None
Table3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                    Date Planned       Date Actual/ Latest
Estimate
Identification                                   1991               1991
Preparation                                      1992               1992
Appraisal                                     1992-1993          1992-1993
Negotiations                                    3/1993             3/1993
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)     NA                 NA
Board Presentation                              4/1993             4/1993
Signing                                         7/1993             7/1993
Effectiveness                                  12/1993            12/1993
First Tranche Release (if applicable)            NA                 NA
Midterm Review (if applicable)                   NA                 NA
Second (and third) Tranche Release (if applica-  NA                 NA
ble)
Project Completion                            12/31/1998         12/31/1999
Loan Closing                                  6/30/1999          12/31/1999



- 87 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Table 4: LoanlCredit Disbursements: Cumultive Estimated and Actual
FY 93     FY 94       FY 95      FY 96      FY 97      FY 98      FY 99
Appraisal Estimate          4.70       11.10      21.40      32.90      41.80      42.70      44.09
Actual                      0.80      3.24        7.17       13.86      20.72      27.06      44.09
Actual as % of Estimate     17%        29%        33%        42%        50%        63%        100%
forecast
Date of Final Disburse-  April 30,2 000
ment
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I Key Implementation Indicators
in SAR Presidents Report               Estimated                              Actual
I.  Set-up a modem, operational  1.1 Nationwide  installation  of  1.1  ITS software accepted by Users and be-
Intemal Revenue tax Admini-      computer systems, including     ing rolled-out to various Metro Manila
stration System                  creation of RDCs                sites
1.2 Rollout to 41 RDOs (including Large
Taxpayer's Division) and 7 Regional Of-
fices
1.3 Established BIR Command Center and 5
RDCs
1.4 Reduced ratio of PCs from I PC:10 users
to 1:6 users.
2.  Increased  govemment reve-  2.1 Tax effort index of 14% at-  2.1 Tax effort ratio for 1998 is 12.64% and
nues                            tained by 2000                    11.94% as of 3rd Quarter 1999
3.  Improved Voluntary Compli-  3.1 At least 10%  increase of  3.1 Increase in collection from  Large Tax-
ance                             collection from  Large Tax-     payers' (first 200) by 24.65%  for Sep-
payers group and other In-      tember 1997 to April 1998 as compared to
dustry groups                   September 1998 to April 1999 (prior to
computerization).
3.2 Attain return filing regularity  3.2 As of 19'h November 1999, 36,966 stop-
of 99% for top 2000 taxpay-     filer cases were identified, which resulted
ers and other industry groups   in P 57.65 M revenues.
4.  Increased taxpayer base      4.1 Increase in taxpayer base   4.1 ITS registered 279,710 business taxpayers
and 1,255,433 employees as of September
30, 1999
4.2 New  TPs generated  from   4.2 Information Linkages with the Land Reg-
purchases of large assets (e.g.  istration Authority (LRA) resulted in the
luxury vehicles, real estate)   uncovering of 45 cases with a total as-
sessment of P 30 M as of September 30,
5.  Attain savings on administra-  5.1 Savings of at least P 5M an-   1999
tive costs                       nually from storage, printing,  5.1 Savings:
mailing  costs  and  bank  *   Storage cost- P 0. 96 M
"tloats'                    *   Mailing Cost - P 1.1 M
*   Bank Float - P 209.13 M



- 88 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
If Modified Indicators (if applica-
ble)                                          NA                                    NA
Ill Other Indicators
1.  To  improve efficiency and  1.1 Survey results for selected  1.1 SWS survey showed a +41% Satisfaction
transparency in BIR  opera-      Taxpayer                        on BIR Service.
tions
2.  Transform  the image of the  2.1 Increase throughput rates of  2.1 Throughput review of key transactions:
BIR to that of a world-class     key transactions            *   Faster processing of tax retums
organization  staffed  by  a                                 *   Faster response time to taxpayer inquiries
highly respected  work-force                                 *   Systematic problem  resolution through
noted for their integrity and                                    Helpdesk
professionalism                                              *   Improved  internal      communication
through intra-net and video conferencing
2.2 Enhanced taxpayer assistance  2.2 Improved processes through the follow-
ing:
*   Approval of BIR Organizational Plan per
E.O. 175
*   Availability of BIR Information through
Webpage and Info Kiosk
*   Obtain TIN within 20 minutes from reg-
istration
*   Issuance of Tax Clearance Certificate
within 15 minutes from registration
*   Encoding efforts by banks teller was re-
duced by 59%.
Table 6: Key Indicatoms for Project Operation
11. Modified Indicators (if applicable)
1. Number of Rollouts to BIR field offices
2. Revision of key business processes       * Registration, returns filing and payment, tax
reconciliation, audit
* Establishment of TIN query facility in BIR for
3. Activated 3rd party linkages             use by mandated EO 98 agencies
4. Results of user surveys                  * Positive net agreement rating in user surveys
5. Increase in revenues in targeted industry  *10% increase
groups
*48 hours payment posting and I week returns
6. Increased throughput rates of key trans-  posting lead time for large taxpayers; I week
actions                                     payment posting, 30-days  non-peak  returns
posting and 90 days peak returns posting lead
time for regular taxpayer.



- 89 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study             Purpose as defined at ap-        Status            Impact of Study
praisal/ redefined
1991    Implementation  Provide strategies for using  Completed          Basis for Invitation for
System   Strategic  Plan  Info. Tech. for BIR central,                   Bids (IFB)
(ISSP)                   regional and revenue district
offices to enable the bureau to
perform its mission of ad-
ministering and executing
internal revenue laws, rules
and regulations. It also con-
tains the proposed hardware
and  software  architecture
necessary in implementing
these strategies together with
a pragmatic approach to the
development, operation and
support of systems built.
1993 Invitation for Bid  Describe the nature, technical  Completed       Basis for submission of
(IFB)                    requirement and the bidding                     Competitive Bid for sup-
procedures for the Philippine                   ply for turnkey computer
Tax Computerization Project                      system
(PTCP). Also an invitation for
bidders to develop the soft-
ware of new tax application
systems for the bureau, sup-
ply the computer and com-
munications equipment, and
provide for the support serv-
ices such as training and
maintenance of the software
and equipment.
1994 BIR Modernization  Document and  define  the  Completed             Baseline  for  systems
Plan                    project plan, major activities,                  delivery by AC-PS
deliverables and overall work
approach for the 5-year mod-
ernization plan of the Ander-
sen Consulting (AC) and
Philippine Systems Products
Inc. (PSPI) or known as AC-
PS, the BIR winning bidder.
1998 IMF Report         To review  progress on the  Completed            Basis for systems for
Philippines:  Challenges  changes that have been intro-                   selected Modifications to
in Revenue Administra-  duced to date to support mod-                    the ITS
tion and Tax Compliance  ernization of the tax and cus-
Improvement by  John  toms administrations and to
Crotty     and  others  provide recommendations on
(January '98)           the next steps that are to be



- 90 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Study            Purpose as defined at ap-       Status           Impact of Study
praisal/ redefined
undertaken.
The Philippines:  Im-
proving   Control   on  To identify measures that can
Large Taxpayers & Bank  be implemented in the BIR in
Remittances  by  Paulo  the short and medium term to
Sergio  dos    Santos  improve the control on large
(March '98)            taxpayers and bank remit-
tances of collections to the
Treasury and to review the
status of the modification be-
ing introduced to reduce errors
in tax return and payment in-
formation.
Communications Support  Communications project to  Completed           The project identified the
to Manage Change       rationalize  the  roles  and                    strengths  and   weak-
functions of information and                   nesses, problems, issues
communication  in carrying                     and concerns of the ex-
out the BIR mandate and to                     isting  information  and
pursue the effective and effi-                 communication  systems
cient utilization of human,                    (both internal and exter-
physical and financial com-                    nal) of the Bureau. Ap-
munication resources of the                    propriate  recommenda-
Bureau.                                       tions for organizational
improvement and effec-
tive implementation of
EO 175 and the ITS
Rollout/Devolution have
been made.
Table BA: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)
Item                              Local    Foreign     Total      Local   Foreign     Total
Costs       Cost               Costs      Costs
Breakdown of Categories:
a. Hardware & Software             2.89      37.60      40.49      2.71     37.54    40.25
b. Other Project Cost              5.81       2.26       8.08     22.03      2.08    24.11
c. Tech. Assist. & Admin.          0.21       2.85       3.05      0.19       4.48     4.67
d. Taxes & Duties                 10.10        0.0      10.10      1.45        0.0     1.45
Total of Categories               19.01      42.71      61.72     26.39     44.09     70.48



- 91 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (USSM)   ActuaUlatest estimate (US$M)
Local  Foreign               Local  Foreign
Source                             costs     costs    Total    costs      costs    Total
IBRD/IDA                                     42.71    42.71               44.09    44.09
Cofinancing institutions                              -        -              -         -
Other external sources                 -                  -
Domestic contribution              19.01         -    19.01     26.39         -    26.39
TOTAL                              19.01     42.71     61.72    26.39     44.09    70.48
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Comparison of Revenues between Computerized and Non-Computerized RDOs
Collections/Growth Rate
1999 (Nov- Average Annual
1996        1997        1998     Dec est.)    Growth Rate
1. Computerized from CY 1996-1999
4 pilot districts  27.58M     36.77M      47.35M       50.37M
6.25%      33.31%      28.78%       6.37%           18.68%
IlI   non-pilot  228.91M     277.77M     290.30M      289.36M
districts          8.24%      21.35%        4.51%      (0.32%)           8.44%
11. Computerized from CY 1997-1999
5 pilot districts             43.75M      54.93M       59.48M
17.11%      25.55%       8.28%           16.98%
110   non-pilot              270.79M     282.72M     280.25M
districts                     18.30%       4.40%       (0.87%)           7.28%
111. Computerized from CY 1998-1999
9 pilot districts                         185.28M -   183.69M
12.55%     (0.86%)           5.85%
106   non-pilot                          152.36M      156.03M
districts                                   1.63%       2.41%           2.02%



- 92 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement                       Sect-    Covenant  Present      Original    Revised  Ful-  Desc.  of  Connmnt
ion     Type       Status      Fulfill-    fillment Date   Covenant
ment Date
1.  Procurement of Goods        Sec. I   Procure.   Completed   1992  -   1992- 1998   Goods        None
a.  Computer Turnkey                     - do -    - do -       1998       1991 - 1994   - do -
b.  Printing Equipment                   - do -    - do -                  1994 - 1995   - do -
c.  Audio Visual/Comms System            - do -    - do -                  1995 - 1997   - do -
d.  Utility Vehicles                     - do -    - do -                  1994 - 1995   - do -
2.  Employment of Consultants            Pro-      Completed   1994  -  1994- 1999   Consult-    None
curement               1997                    ants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                               Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.
2.                                    (for Bank fill-up)
3.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle             Planned               Revised                Actual
.  Weeks  i  US$      Weeks 4T US$          Weeks       US$
Through appraisal
Appraisal - Board
Board - effectiveness
Supervision                                          (no data available)
Completion
TOTAL
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of     Days In     Specialized        Ratin           Type of
Stage of Project Cycle      M/Y        Persons      Field      Staff Skills  Imple-    Dev't     Problems
menta-   Impact
tion
Status   ____
Through Appraisal                           .                                  _
Appraisal  through   board
approval



- 93 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Board  Approval  through
effectiveness
Supervision                  10/91        2       2 weeks
11/92        3      2 weeks
6/94        2       2 weeks
1/95        2      2 weeks
9/95         1      2 weeks
10/96        3      2 weeks
3/97        2       2 weeks
10/97        2      2 weeks
3/98        2       2 weeks
10//98       2      2 weeks
5/99         1     2 weeks    ____.;._--_
Completion                                                        _                              _ .



- 94 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Annex B - Other Tables
Table Ia - Capability Rollout Status (as of Dec. 29, 1999)
REG             PAYMENT    STOPFILERS    RETURNS
RR # 4 SAN FERNANDO, PAMPANGA
# 17- Tarlac, Tarlac                  Aug. 16, 1999       Oct. 22, 1999
# 18- Olongapo City                   Aug. 13, 1999       Oct. 22, 1999
# 19-SBMA                             Aug. 12, 1999      Oct. 22, 1999      Dec. 15, 1999     .        -
# 21 - San Fernando, Pampanga         July 15, 1999      Oct. 22, 1999
# 23 - Cabanatuan City                Oct. 08, 1998      Dec. 06, 1999
RR #5 VALENZUELA
# 24 - Valenzuela, M.M.               Aug. 10, 1999       Oct. 18, 1999     Dec. 15, 1999
# 25 - Plaridel, Bulacan              Sept. 01, 1999      Oct. 25, 1999
# 26 - Malabon/Navotas                Aug. 24, 1999      Oct. 28, 1999
# 27 - Caloocan City                  Aug, 16 1999       Oct. 28. 1999
RR #6 MANILA                            _        _                            _ _ __
# 29 - Tondo- San Nicolas             Nov. 05, 1998       Jan. 18, 1999     June 15, 1999     Nov. 26, 1999
** # 30- Binondo                          July 01, 1996      May 24, 1998      May 08,1999       Oct. 18, 1999
# 31 - Sta. Cruz                      Nov. 05, 1998       Feb. 22, 1999     June 15, 1999     Nov. 26, 1999
*5#32 - Quiapo-Sta. Mesa-Sampaloc         July 01,1996       May 24, 1998      May 08,1999       Oct. 18, 1999
"   #33 - Ermita-lntramuros-Malate       July 01,1996        May 24, 1998      May 08,1999       Oct. 18, 1999
# 34 - Paco-Pandacan-Sta. Ana          Oct. 05, 1998      Dec. 14, 1998     May 08,1999       Nov. 26, 1999
RR # 7 QUEZON CITY                                                                :_S:_                     :___
# 28-Novaliches                        June 15, 1998       Jan. 18, 1999     May 08,1999
# 38 - North, Quezon City              June 01,1999       June 30, 1999     Sept. 15, 1999
#39 - South, Quezon City              Aug. 01, 1997       Aug. 01, 1997     Feb. 01, 1998     Sept. 06, 1999
40 - Cubao                            June 01,1998        Oct. 19, 1998     May 08,1999       Sept. 06, 1999
# 41 - Mandaluyong                     June 22, 1998       Jan. 18, 1999     May 08,1999
42 - San Juan                         Jan. 12, 1999      March 29, 1999    Aug. 16, 1999
43 - Pasig                            Sept. 02, 1998      Jan. 18, 1999     June 15, 1999
#45 - Marikina                         Nov. 12, 1998      Feb. 15, 1999      June 15, 1999
#46 - Cainta-Taytay                    Sept. 09, 1998      Jan. 18, 1999     June 15, 1999
RR # 8 MAKAT CITY                             C:________,
# 44 - Taguig-Pateros                  Sept. 09, 1998     Dec. 14, 1998      June 15, 1999     Sept. 06, 1999
# 47 - East Makati                     July 15, 1998      Mar. 01, 1999      May 08,1999       Aug. 23, 1999
# 48 - Wcst Makati                     July 15, 1998      Mar. 01, 1999      May 08,1999       Aug. 23, 1999
# 49 - North Makati                    July 15, 1998      Mar. 01, 1999      May 08,1999       Aug. 23, 1999
# 50 - South Makati                    July 15, 1998      Mar. 01, 1999      May 08,1999       Aug. 23, 1999
# 51 - Pasay City                     March 15, 1999      May 17, 1999       June 15, 1999     Dec. 13, 1999
'' # 52 - Parahaque                      July 01,1996       May 24, 1998       June 15, 1999     Sept. 06, 1999
4 53 - Las Pi6as-Muntinlupa            July 22, 1998      Dec. 14, 1998      June 15, 1999     Dec. 13, 1999
RR# SAN PABLO CITY                                                                                           t
# 54 - Trece Martirez City             March 15, 1999      April 28, 1999     Oct. 04, 1999 
# 55 - San Pablo City                   June 25, 1999       July 26, 1999    Sept. 07, 1999    _             -
# 56 - Calamba, Laguna                 March 15, 1999      April 28, 1999     Aug. 31, 1999
# 57 - San Pedro, Laguna                May 17, 1999       June 30, 1999      Sept. 07, 1999
RR # 13 CEBU CITY                                                                      .
4 80 - Mandaue City                     June 16, 1999      July 19, 1999     Sept. 13, 1999
"* # 81 - Cebu City, North                Aug. 01, 1996       Oct. 03, 1997     May 08,1999       Aug. 23, 1999
# 82 - Cebu City, South                 June 18, 1999       July 15, 1999    Sept. 13, 1999
# 83 - Talisay, Cebu                    June 17, 1999      July 27, 1999     Sept. 13, 1999
RDO 116 - Large Taxpayer Division         Sept. 01, 1998      Sept. 01, 1998    Sept. 01, 1999    Aug. 23, 1999
'' - pilot RDOs



- 95 -
Final Version - February 2, 2000
Table 2 - 1s  Semester CY 2000 Rollout Plan
ACTIVITY          JAN       FEB       MAR       APR      MAY        JUN
I   RDO Based Processing           13     RR7        RR9                RR5
RDO 80   RDO 41  RDO 54                RDO 24  RR4
RDO 81  RDO 42  RDO 55                 RDO 25  RDO  17
RDO 82  RDO 28   RDO 56                RDO 26  RDO  18
RDO 83   RDO 43   RDO 57               RDO 27   RDO  19
RDO 45                                 RDO 21
RDO 46                                 RDO 23
RR 8
RDO 53
Bank Reconciliation by
RDO                          RR6       RR7       RR9                 RR5       RR4
RDO 29  RDO 28  RDO 54                 RDO 24  RDO  17
RDO 30  RDO 38  RDO 55                 RDO 25  RDO  18
RDO 31  RDO  39  RDO 56                RDO 26  RDO  19
RDO 32  RDO 40  RDO 57                 RDO 27   RDO 20
RDO 33  RDO 41                                    RDO 21
RDO 34   RDO 42                                   RDO 22
RDO 43                                 RDO 23
RDO 45
RDO 46
RR 13
RDO 80
RDO 81
RDO 82
RDO 83
2.  Establishment of LTS and roll-   LTS
out of ITS Transaction Proc-
essing (REG, CBR, RPS, CMS,
RCS, TAS)
Establishment of ETS and roll-   ETS
out of ITS Transaction Proc-
essing (REG, CBR, RPS, TAS)
3.  Stop Filer Capability       RDO 25
RDO 26
RDO 27
RDO 17
RDO 18
RDO 21
RDO 23
4.  Accounts Receivable
Capability                                                                RR 8
RDO 47
RDO048
RDO 49
RDO 50



- 96 -
APPENDIX 3
Republic of the Philippines
Department of Finance
Bureau of Internal Revenue
Survey Report
Attainment of Objectives of Beneficiaries of the
BIR Tax Computerization Project
Scope of Survey
1. BIR Management
Assis1ant aCqmnigers
Reg?lo l ectors
Revenue District Officers
Division Chiefs
2. BIR Users of the Integrated Tax System
Technical Staff
Rank and File
3. Large Taxpayers
4. Accredited Agent Banks



- 97 -
Table of Contents
Executive Summary .................................................1
1.0 Rationale for Survey ...................                       .1
2.0 Groups Surveyed ..................1
3.0 Principal Conclusions: ..................2
4.0 Conclusions regarding Benefits, Obstacles and Suggestions reported by
Respondents ..................3
5.0 Areas of Improvement ..................5
6.0 The ICR Task Force ...................                         .6
Annex 1 - Summary Tables ..................7
A. BIR Users ....................7
B. Large Taxpayers ....................9
C. Accredited Agent Banks ...................                                     10
E. Benefits, Obstacles and Suggestions (focus group discussions) ............. ...... 13
F. Areas of Improvement................... 15
Annex 2 - Survey Results
Annex 3 - Tabulation of Benefits, Obstacles and Suggestions Regarding the BIR Tax
Computerization Project
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY                   November, 1999                     Page I



- 98 -
Executive Summary
1.0 RATIONALE FOR SURVEY
With the close of the World Bank funded BIR Tax Computerization Project (TCP) by December
31, 1999, many sectors are interested in knowing the impact of the TCP. World Bank as the funding
agency requires the preparation of an Implementation Completion Report - an end of project report that
describes the level of attainment of the intended objectives of a project. DOF and BIR management are
also keen in obtaining a temperature reading of the project, with regard to the views of users, taxpayers and
deputized collecting agents banks.
This survey report is an output of the Implementation Completion Report Task force of BIR, with
the assistance of an external consultant to oversee the conduct of the survey, focus group meetings, as in
the writing of the final report. This report will serve as an annex to the Borrower's Evaluation Report,
which in turn formns part of the final Implementation Completion Report for the Project, to be prepared
after the Loan Closing Date.
2.0 GROUPS SURVEYED
GROUP            METHOD USED               SUB- GROUPS                NUMBER OF
SAMPLED
RESPONDENTS
1. BIR Users           Survey and Focus    1 mixed management/rank & file        138
Group Discussions     group (Cebu users) and 6
homogeneous-rank focus group
sessions
2. Large Taxpayers     Survey                         None                 19 (out of top 200)
3. Accredited Agent    Survey                 7 AABs (out of 30) with 3          21
Banks (AAB)                                  respondents from each bank
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY                     November, 1999                      Page I



- 99 _
3.0 PRINCIPAL CONCLUSIONS:
3.1 BIR Users
Respondents' profile (Annex 1, Al):
*      75% of the respondent users have been exposed to the Integrated Tax System
(ITS) in various roles for more than six months.
*      90% have been employed in the Bureau for more than one year.
Conclusions:
2. Majority of BIR users agree that the ITS is indeed a useful productivity tool (see
annex 1, A2)
3. More users agree that the ITS information is accurate and readily available than
those who disagree. However, a large portion are undecided, and can be swayed
in either direction by additional exposure to ITS (see annex 1, A3).
4. Majority agree that ITS captures tax information efficiently, and is able to use the
data to control BIR personnel accountabilities and performance (see annex 1, A4).
5. Majority agree that ITS plays a big role in making taxpayers feel the impact of
computerization (see annex 1, A5).
6. A high majority are aware that relevant training programs were conducted to
prepare users for ITS (see annex 1, A5).
3.2 Large Taxpayers
Respondents'profile (see annex 1, B):
*      Majority of the respondents belong to the managerial level.
*      Majority of the respondents have been in their present jobs for more than one
year
Conclusions:
2. Respondents are unanimous that computerization will encourage accurate
information from taxpayers. Majority believe that it will assure taxes are properly
credited to government (see annex 1, questions I & 2).
3. Majority believe that it is now easier to secure tax forms (see annex 1, question 3)
4. More respondents are in agreement (than those who disagree) that obtaining
information from computerized BIR offices is easier, and that BIR's webpage and
information kiosks have been helpfulfor them to obtain tax information (see annex
1, questions 4 & 5).
5. While more respondents agree that computerization makes compliance with BIR
requirements easier, a large number of undecided respondents exists, and could be
swayed into either direction depending on BIR's performance (see annex 1,
questions 6 & 7).
6. It should be noted likewise that a significant number of the respondents gave
neutral answers in all the questions, which may be attributed to a lack of
awareness on the issues pertaining to a particular question (see annex 1, questions
2 to 7).
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY                      November, 1999                      Page 2



- 100 -
3.3 Accredited Agent Banks
Respondents' profile (see annex 1, C):
*      Majority of the respondents are of supervisory or management levels.
*      A high majority have been in their present positions in excess of one year
*      63% are hands on users, while 3 7% are report users.
*      A high majority have been using the Limited Bank Data Entry (LBDE) system
for more than six months.
Conclusions:
2.  A high majority of AAB users believe that the LBDE system generates accurate and
up-to-date information that is quicker in completing required tasks (see annex 1,
question I - 3).
3. A high majority of AAB users believe that the LBDE system is user friendly, and
provides for easier submission of collection information to BIR.(see annex 1,
questions 4 - 5)
4. Respondents who believe the Integrated Tax System (ITS) helps in communication
with BIR equal the number of those who disagree (see annex 1, question 6).
5. There are double the number of respondents who do not believe that BIR provides
timely feedback on erroneous bank reports than those who do (see annex 1,
question 7).
4.0 CONCLUSIONS REGARDING BENEFITS, OBSTACLES AND SUGGESTIONS REPORTED
BY RESPONDENTS
Both survey questionnaires and focus group discussions were used in eliciting
user views regarding the TCP. The following conclusions reflect the combined views of
the management and rank and file users of BIR with regard to TCP benefits, obstacles
and suggestions.
4.1 Conclusions regarding Perceived Benefits
2. A dramatic reduction in time querying
taxpayer   registration,   bank   collection
information, collection statistics and legal
information was attained.
3. Computerization (including office automation) shortened the time required for
report generation and preparation of correspondence.
4. There is now faster detection of stop filers and non-filers as well as incorrect
taxpayer-declared information..
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES S[IRVEY                     November, 1999                       Page 3



- 101 -
5.  There has been an upgrading of skills of BIR personnel, including an enhanced
appreciation by them of the usefulness of IT in their work
6.  Taxpayers are aware of BIR's efforts to improve services especially in areas
regarding taxpayer account inquiries and securing TINs.
7.  The system ensures that tax payments are properly and immediately remitted
4.2 Conclusions regarding Perceived Obstacles
2. There is a lack of budgetary support and/or
inadequate coordination that results in
insufficient logistical resources to support
computerization.
3. Erroneous  taxpayer-supplied  information  is  a  major  impediment  in
computerization, underscoring the needfor more error-handlers and also a need to
properly educate taxpayers
4. In some cases, the system is unacceptably slow in the access of records (especially
during video conferencing, which shares the same data lines). In other cases, it is
simply not available due to system errors or power outages. Likewise, restrictive
special access procedures slow down regular staff in accessing the system.
5.  There are still some in the RDO leadership, as well as staff who exhibit negative
attitudes and a lack of teamwork regarding computerization. Some RDO staff
assigned to do computer work would rather delegate their assignments to non-BIR
assistants
6.  Unhappy BIR IT personnel due to favoritism  in promotions, lack of action on
promised incentives, poor rewards, assignment of unqualified personnel.
7.  There is a serious lack of technically trained BIR personnel, with a growing
apprehension that this will be aggravated with the end of the AC-PS contract. A
lack of user training has resulted in the assignment of unqualified personnel.
8. Frequent changes in procedures as a result of the changes in the law and or
leadership
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY                      November, 1999                      Page 4



- 102 -
4.3 Conclusions regarding User Suggestions
2. Management should ensure an adequate
budget for computerization.
3. The need to improve the interface between the Bureau and the taxpayer, such as to
simplify the tax forms, to provide facilities for info drives (e.g transportation and
advertising), and to educate taxpayers on the simplified tax forms.
4.  The needfor continuous procedural improvements and training guided by an active
change management process. This includes enhancing ITS further to address
improvements requested by users, promulgating and distributing consistently
uniform procedures in processing returns by field offices; and accelerating user,
policy maker and AAB training.
5. The need to increase on-the-job training to ensure better application of theoretical
knowledge. Recognize extended OJT as equivalent to classroom training with
respect to obtaining regular access rights to the system.
6. The need to address the plight of the rank and file, including a request to promote
deserving employees and to reduce salary deductions from contractual staff
7. The provision of adequate site preparation and the attainment of a 1:1 user to PC
ratio within the bureau.
5.0 AREAS OF IMPROVEMENT
The survey suggested the following areas for improvement for BIR.
5.1 From BIR Users (see annex 1, Fl)
2. Need to focus on information accuracy and
timeliness
3. Need to ensure accountabilities monitoring by system..
4.  The systems should ensure that payments are both timely and accurate
5.2 From Large Taxpayers (see annex 1, F2)
1. The BIR information kiosk should be
updated and tailored to the needs of large
taxpayers.
2. BIR needs to further simplify its compliance requirements for large taxpayers.
3. Forms availability should be assured for large taxpayers
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY                      November, 1999                       Page 5



- 103 -
5.3 From Accredited Agent Banks (see annex 1, F3)
1. BIR should ensure immediate reporting of
errors to AABs.
2.  BIR should improve on the training of bank personnel involved in the Limited
Bank Data Entry (LBDE) system.
3. BIR should increase its efforts in improving communications with AABs in relation
to the LBDE system.
6.0 THE ICR TASK FORCE
Head:                  Norma L. Lipana                HREA, Financial & Admin. Service
Members:               Wilhelmina S. Sefieris         HREA, ODCIR-ISG
Lani V. Prudente               Office of the ACIR-IPQS
Ma. Victoria P. Biagtan        SSTMD-IPQS
Rosa Lee M. Versoza            DBA Pool
Alvin C. Fegarido              DBA Pool
Yolanda R. Crobalde            ODCIR-ISG
Nema Benita M. Larines         LTD
Gina Villasoto                 LTD
Arlene V. de Guzman            Management Division
Felix Paul Velasco III         Management Division
Carol Pesayco                  Planning Division
Robert C. Santos               Planning Division
Katherine A. Aranza            Statistics Division
Eunisa V. Rapsing              Statistics Division
Lizabel Valderrama             Statistics Division
Maricel P. Esteban             Statistics Division
Consultant:            Luis A. Chanco                 Office of the Project Supervision Consultant
Workshop Facilitators:   Ramon Tuazon and Armida Budomo
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY                       November, 1999                      Page 6



- 104 -
Annex 1 - Summary Tables
A. BIR USERS
Note: Difference from 100% represents no responses for criteria.
1. Demographics
Criteria                                     Percentage Score
1. Sex                    Male           Female
________           ~~~39           56
2. Status                 Single         Married
2 6    6 9
3. Education           Some College      College      Post Graduate
4    56    32
4. Position             Managerial     Supervisory     Rank & File
19             17              52            A___-
5. Designation         Rank & File       ACIRs/       RDOs/Division     Regional
HREAs       Chiefs/Technical   Directors/RDC
AsAsistants      Heads
67               8             21               4
6. No. of              Below 1 year    I yr - below 5   5 yrs to below 10   10 yrs & above
Years/Months in                           years           yrs
BIR
9    32    16    42
7. Length of          Below 6 months   6 mos to 1 year   Above 1 year to   Above 2 yrs to 3    Above 3 yrs
Involvement in TCP                                        2 yrs           yrs
16    20    20    10    25
2. On the usefulness of ITS as a productivity tool
PERCENTAGE
QUESTION                                                    AGREE   DISAGREE  NEUTRAL
1. Computerization allows accomplishment of more tasks.      71             7            20
2. Computerization shortens the time necessary to complete                 1 1
transactions.                                                71            l l           l 
3. The systems/applications developed are easy to            69             4            27
understand & follow.
4. System assists in the efficient and effective utilization of  61          5            2
Bureau resources.                                             U l           5i2
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY                         November, 1999                         Page 7



- 105 -
|15. Computerizationreducesworkload                        58            16           23]
3. On the Availability and Accuracy of Data in ITS
PERCENTAGE
QUESTION                                                  AGREE    DISAGREE   NEUTRAL
l. System improves data inquiry function.                  78             1           19
2. System provides statistical data and information for tax  61           5           3
planning and policy analysis.                              61                         J U
3.  Systems allow  automatic generation of timely and       57           1            26
accurate reports.                                          57            15           26
4. Information generated is up to date                     46            22           29
5. Information generated is accurate                       44           21            32
4. On ITS Data Capture
PERCENTAGE
QUESTION                                                  AGREE    DISAGREE   NEUTRAL
1. System captures tax registration information efficiently.  664                     24
2.  System   monitors  and  controls  BIR  personnel        52           1            3 1
accountabilities and performance.                           2            1            31
5. On Making Taxpayers Feel the Impact of Computerization
PERCENTAGE
QUESTION                                                  AGREE    DISAGREE   NEUTRAL
1. System provides for more effective and efficient controls,  6          4           22
systems and procedures to ensure that the required returns  66                        22
are filed within the due dates as provided by the law.
2. System  provides for timely recognition and accurate     59            8           28
reporting of stop-filers.                                   J             8           28
3. System ensures that tax payments are accurately remitted  58           9           28
in a timely manner.
6. On the Provision of Training
PERCENTAGE                ]
QUESTION                                                  AGREE    DISAGREE I NEUTRAL j
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY                       November, 1999                        Page 8



- 106 -
1. Relevant training programs were conducted to prepare the  85            2            1
users for the computerization project                   l            l5            l
B. LARGE TAXPAYERS
Note: Difference from 100% represents no responses for criteria.
1. Demographics
Criteria                             Percentage Score
1. Status                Single          Married
26    63
2. Education             College       Post Graduate
58              32       i     ____
3. Position            Managerial      Supervisory     Rank & File
63    21                         5
4. No. of              Below I year    I yr - below 5    5 yrs to below    10 yrs & above
Years/Months in                           years          10 yrs
Present Position
11    37    16    26
PERCENTAGE
QUESTION                                                  AGREE    DISAGREE   NEUTRAL
1. Computerization encourages accurate information from    1              0            0
taxpayers                                                 1               0 V
2. Computerization gives the assurance that the taxes paid  6             0           32
are properly credited to government                        68             0          32
3. BIR tax return forms are now easier to secure           52           16           32
4. Obtaining tax information from computerized BIR                     -1
offices is more convenient                                 53           11              7 3
5. The BIR web page is useful in obtaining needed tax      53             5           26
information
6.  Computerization  makes  compliance  with  BIR          48           21            32
requirements easier.
7. The information kiosk is useful in obtaining needed tax
information                                                37 /                       3L
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY                        November, 1999                        Page 9



- 107 -
C. ACCREDITED AGENT BANKS
Note: Differencefrom 100% represents no responses for criteria.
1. Demographics
Criteria                               Percentage Score
1. Sex                     Male            Female
21    79
2. Status                  Single          Married
63    37
3. Education              College        Post Graduate
89    11
4. Position             Managerial        Supervisory    Rank & File
16    37    47
5. No.                  Below 1 year     1 yr - below 5  5 yrs to below    10 yrs & above
Years/Months in                             years            10 yrs
Present Position
16    47    32    5
6. Use of the        Direct (Hands-On)   Indirect (Use of
Limited Bank Data                       Rpts. Generated)
Entry (LBDE)
System
63    37
7. Length of Use of     Below 6 mos.     6 mos. to 1 yr.    Above 1 yr To   Above 2 years
LBDE                                                        2 years        to 3 years
LBDE ___    11                              26              47                5
PERCENTAGE
QUESTION                                                     AGREE   DISAGREE  NEUTRAL
1. The LBDE System generates accurate information             94              5             0
2. The LBDE System generates up-to-date information           94              0             5
3. The LBDE System allows for a shorter time to complete       85            1 1
required tasks.                                                O J           l
4. The LBDE System is user-friendly.                          79             16             5
5. It is easier to submit collection information to the        68            21
Revenue Data Center (RDC) through  Electronic Data              58          2  l
Transfer (EDT)
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES StJRVEY                          November, 1999                         Page 10



- 108 -
6. It is easier to communicate with the Bureau of Internal    37  37      2 1
Revenue under the Integrated Tax System            3 '                    21
7. Feedback from the Bureau of Internal Revenue regarding
erroneous reports are transmitted within reasonable time.  26  52         21
8. Relevant training courses were conducted to prepare
bank staff in using the system                     J /        47           5
9. Technical and procedural problems are systematically    47  1          32
resolved by the Revenue Data Center.           L      l        X          32
D. BENEFITS, OBSTACLES AND SUGGESTIONS (FROM SURVEY FORMS)
Note: Ties are denoted by repeated rankings
1. TCP Benefits
MANAGEMENT'S LIST                         RANK AND FILE'S LIST
1 Ease of report preparation, work        1  Shorter time for inquiries and
completion and accurate reports           monitoring of taxpayer information
2  Shorter time for inquiries and         2 Ease of report preparation, work
monitoring of taxpayer information        completion and accurate reports
3  Faster acquisition and easier          3 Reduces workload
monitoring of collection data from banks
4  Shorter time for report generation     4  Shorter time for report generation
4  Improved data inquiry and statistics for  5  Faster acquisition and easier
planning and analysis                     monitoring of collection data from banks
5 Faster identification of stop filers
2. Obstacles in the Successful Implementation of the Tax Computerization Project
MANAGEMENT'S LIST                         RANK AND FILE'S LIST
1 Behavior and attitude of BIR officials  1  Lack of funds/budgetary constraints
to ITS (some are not in favor of the
project, and are resistant to change)
2  Lack of funds/budgetary constraints    1  Lack of highly trained
personnel/computer experts
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY                 November, 1999                  Page 1 1



- 109 -
3  Lack of highly trained              2  Systems are slow or unavailable
personnel/computer experts
4  Lack of facilities, supplies and    3  Inadequate training for BIR and
resources                             taxpayers
5  Lack of up-to-date models of PCs    3  Lack of cooperation and teamwork
3. Suggestions for Improving the Tax Com puterization Project
MANAGEMENT'S LIST                     RANK AND FILE'S LIST
1 More seminars/training on            1 More seminars/training on
computerization to policy makers and   computerization to policy makers and
users.                                 users.
2  Further enhancements of the ITS     2  Further enhancements of the ITS
systems                                systems
3  Additional PCS to achieve a 1:1 ratio.   3  Additional PCS to achieve a 1:1 ratio.
4  Educate taxpayers on correct filling up   4  Educate taxpayers on correct filling up
of forms                               of forms
5  Uniformity of procedures in processing  5  Availability of information and
returns                                documents, including regular updates.
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY              November, 1999               Page 12



- 110 -
E. BENEFITS, OBSTACLES AND SUGGESTIONS (FOCUS GROUP DISCUSSIONS)
Interactions among participants in focus group discussions brought a new dimension in
the prioritized lists of both management and rank & file users.
1. TCP Benefits
MANAGEMENT'S LIST        RANK AND FILE'S LIST     CEBU JOINT MGT/RANK
AND FILE'S LIST
1 Improved data           1 Easier access to       1 Easier to verify
inquiry, accessibility to    information           registration records
taxpayer, collection, legal
and statistics information
1 Faster work output;    2 Easier detection/control  2 Easier to verify taxpayer
shorter report generation   of stopfilers and non-filers.  payments
time using office
automation (memos,
letters and reports) and
ITS
2  Recognition of        3 Faster service to       3 Detects and corrects
potentials of IT in BIR   taxpayers                erroneous information by
operations and increased                           taxpayers
computer literacy
2  Early detection of     4  Upgrading of skills of   4  Taxpayer convenience
stopfilers and non-filers  BIR staff               regarding inquiries
3  Recognition by         5  Ensures tax payments    5  Easier to generate TINs
taxpayers of BIR's efforts   are properly and      and store taxpayer data
to improve services      immediately remitted
2. Suggestions for Improving the Tax Computerization Project
MANAGEMENT'S LIST        RANK AND FILE'S LIST    CEBU JOINT MGT/RANK &
FILE'S LIST
1 Provide adequate        1 Continuous user         1 Simplify forms for
budget for                education.                laymen
computerization.
2  Continuous             2  Continuous taxpayer    2  Implement more on-the-
enhancements of the ITS   and AAB education        job training opportunities
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY             November, 1999                Page 13



- 111 -
systems
3  Intensify internal and    3  Promote deserving  3  Provide sufficient
taxpayer information     employees                 budget to the project
campaign regarding TCP
4  Ensure an active change  4  Continue enhancements  4  RDO-based encoding of
management program        based on user feedback   returns and CBR validation
5  Prioritize site        5 Reduce salary          5  Provide sufficient
preparation and personnel   deductions from contractual facilities for information
training                  staff                    drive (e.g. transportation,
advertising)
3. Obstacles in the Successful Implementation of the Tax Computerization Project
MANAGEMENT'S LIST        RANK AND FILE'S LIST       CEBU JOINT MGT. &
RANK AND FILE'S LIST
1 Lack of logistics (eg   1 Taxpayer information   1 Non-compliance of
telephone lines, funds,   incomplete, inaccurate or  taxpayers in filling up
computers, supplies)      not updated              forms
2  No training or        2  Lack of manpower       2 No budget for supplies
inadequate training                                and materials (toner, paper,
continuous forms)
3  Negative attitudes/    3  Lack of support from  3  Very slow response
resistance of BIR         RDO leadership           time of computers (eg 30
employees                                          mins. for 1 inquiry)
4  Constant change in     4  Favoritism in         4  Special access
procedures (including     promotions               procedures very
CTRP implementation)                               inconvenient
5  Transition of trained  5 No action on promised   5  Lack of manpower
personnel; assignment of    incentives, promotions  (error handlers, CBR
unqualified personnel;                             encoders)
restrictive implementaion of
security matrix; fast
turnover due to poor
rewards
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY             November, 1999               Page 14



- 112 -
F. AREAS OF IMPROVEMENT
1. From BIR User Survey Results
PERCENTAGE
QUESTION                                                   AGREE    DISAGREE   NEUTRAL
1. Information generated is accurate                        44           2 1           32
2. Information generated is up-to-date                      46            22           29
3. System monitors and controls BIR personnel               52            1             3 1
accountabilities and performance                              J           t            31
4. System ensures that tax payments are accurately remitted  58            9            2
in a timely manner                                          58             9           2
5.  System  provides for timely recognition and accurate    59             8           28
reporting of stopfilers
2. From Large Taxpayers Survey Results
PERCENTAGE
QUESTION                                                   AGREE    DISAGREE   NEUTRAL
1. Information kiosk is useful in obtaining needed tax
information                                                 J  /                       32
2.    Computerization  makes  compliance  with  BIR         4             2 1            2
requirements easier                                         48            2            32
3. BIR tax forms are now easier to secure                   52            16           32
4. Obtaining tax information from computerized BIR offices
is more convenient                                          53            11           37
5. The BIR web page is useful in obtaining needed tax       53             5           26
information                                              _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
3. From Accredit Agent Banks Survey Results
PERCENTAGE
QUESTION                                                   AGREE   DISAGREE  NEUTRAL
1. Feedback from the BIR regarding erroneous reports are    2             5            2 1
transmitted within reasonable time                          26            5            21
2. Relevant training courses were conducted to prepare bank
staff in using the system                                   J  /             /
3. It is easier to communicate with BIR under the ITS       37            37           21
4. Technical and procedural problems are systematically     4             2 1           32
resolved by the RDC                                         4  I                       32
BIR TCP BENEFICIARIES SURVEY                        November, 1999                       Page 15



- 113 -
PTCP Interview
Appendix 4                                         accomplishment  milestones  more  clearly,  before
Beethoven L. Rualo                        proceeding to the next phase. I would insist that the
Beetove    L.Rualprocedures  should  first  be  reengineered  before
Former Commissioner,                 computerization can be started. Then core systems
Bureau of Intenal Revenue             (registration, collections and returns) should be rolled out
(1998- 2000)                      first. Once pilot rotlouts were completed, the large
revenue regions such as Makati, Manila, Quezon City
and Cebu should be prioritized.
Could you please describe your role or roles
in the Project?                                                  Atty. Liwayway
I was Director of the Makati Region at about the time            Vinzons-Chato
when the project started. I was Deputy Commissioner                Former Commissioner,
for Operations when the project rollouts began in                Breau of Internal Revenue
1996.  In  1998,  1  was  appointed  as  BIR                         (1993 - 1998)
Commissioner, concurrently Chairman of the
Management Advisory Committee for the Project.
What do you think were the main successes          Could you please describe your role or roles in
of the Project especially  in your area of    the Project?
concern?
As then Commissioner of Internal Revenue, I was
I think it will be difficult to name a third world    fortunate to have started with the TC from bidding and to
country that achieved the level of tax computerization    see an  e nce start  of the  rol    of som   tC
that BIR achieved over the last five years. While    see and expenence the start of the roll-out of some TCP
systems. I was the Chairperson of both the Management
there wereImany problems at the start such as the    Advisory Committee (MAC) as well as the Management
large number of suspense returns, these problems    Committee  (MANCOM),  which   had   over-all
have substantially declined, given my directive to    determination and control of the architecture and designs
simplify the data entry process using a limited    of the systems, both the ITS and the IAS, as well as the
number of fields taken  from  the return filed.                 ,                      ,
Simplification and effectiveness was also gained by    structure and organization of the TCP, including the
the TCP when I instructed that ITS should focus only    manning and the timely delivery and performance of the
on just a few core modules (instead of the original
14), and that the rollouts sites would also be limited
to what BIR IT management can handle at any given    What do you think were the main successes of
time.                                              the Project especially in your area of concern?
What were the main setback of the Project,    I would think that the main successes of the TCP were
and   especially  those   you   specifically    the development of the Information Systems Strategic
encountered?                                       Plans (ISSP) I and 11, the expert and professional
handling of the Project by the BIR officials and
During the initial implementation of the project, I felt    personnel assigned to the Project, the training programs,
that the project was unnecessarily complex. As an    the ITS systems designed and developed for the TCP,
example, having six pilot areas rather than one or two    and the over-all management and coordination of the
made it harder to correct the large number of    Project among all the participants thereto.
erroneous returns being experienced by the pilot
RDOs. Likewise, the project lost focus on what was    But first and foremost, the main success of the TCP was
really important when it tried to roll out all the ITS  getting people's involvement and commitment to the
systems, instead of rolling out only the core systems    Project that allowed us the opportunity and the vehicle to
first: registration, collections and returns.      get the BIR people to accept and support our vision of a
world class tax administration that, I believe, excited the
If the project could be done all over again,    BIR people to bring to reality.
what would you recommend to be changed?
Like the proverbial task of how to eat an elephant
(easy: one bite at a time), the Tax Computerization
Project tried to do too much too soon. Dividing the
project into logical phases would have set the
Tax Computerization Project



- 114 -
What were the main setback of the Project,   If the project could be done all over again, what
and   especially  those   you   specifically       would you recommend to be changed?
encountered?
I would recommend that the Project be undertaken at a
There were several area of concern that may be    lesser scale, with the BIR personnel and its backroom
considered as main setbacks of the                 operation,  such  as  the  Collection  and   Bank
Project, as follows:                               Reconciliation (CBR), the Audit System, Taxpayer
Accounting System (TAS), being prepared first to handle
*  We lacked the ability to attract good IT    the front end of the TCP or Taxpayer Compliance.
personnel due to unattractive and noncompetitive
compensation package. Thus, BIR people who    I would also prepare and bring in an experienced Change
were working on the Project were assigned a    Management Group to handle the overwhelming changes
number of roles that tended to overwhelm and    occurring  internally and externally  with  the TCP
exhaust them in their work and their roles.   implementation.
*  There was a pervasive perception that the TCP
systems designed and developed were merely the
electronic application of BIR manual procedures
and not an improvement of existing manual                   Carol E. Carreon
processes  therein. This  became  areas  of             Managyng Diretor, SAP Phikppine, Inc.
contention that almost scuttled certain systems of         Fomer Depm_y Commis rioner of
the Project as difficulties and delays were                  BumraoIte    Rvm ue
attributed to this. One such area is the issuance            Bwreaz of InteralRe 'e
of Tax Clearance Certificate for sales and                        (1997-1998)
transfers of realty where the issue of what RDO,
whether the RDO where the Taxpayer is located
or the RDO where the property is located, would
be the appropriate issuing office.
*  We came up with a massive undertaking, an    Could you please describe your role or roles In
Integrated Tax System, that overloaded the BIR    the Project?
at a time when changes were also being
undertaken on the basic legislation, i.e., the    I was  the  Project  Director for the  BIR  Tax
National Internal Revenue Code, that the BIR   Computerization Project.
had to implement as well as the simultaneous
restructuring of the entire BIR organization.  What do you think were the main successes of
*  We lacked the physical facilities and structures    the Project especially in your area of concem?
that would house the computer equipment and
personnel for the Revenue Data Centers (RDC).  The completion of the Integrated Tax System, the start of
*  Getting the taxpayers to accept and be educated    enhancements, and the rollout to 12 RDOs and 3 ROs
in the new procedures and requirements that was
needed in the ITS. One such example is    What were the main setback of the Project, and
resistance and complaints encountered in the    especially those you specifically encountered?
implementation of the Taxpayer Record Update
(TRU) Program  that was designed to (TRU)    a  initial pilot was too big a bite to chew
Program that was designed to record non-filers    *  data conversion strategy not well thought out
and update BIR's taxpayer records.             *  functional specifications not well thought out
*  The Change Management Group chosen to    If the project could be done all over again, what
handle the changes occurring and that would    would you recommend to be changed?
occur from the shift from manual to electronic
processes was not up to the challenge poised by    *  simplify functional specs
the changes that were brought about by the TCP.    *  modify data conversion strategy
This was due, in part, to the lack of financial    .   I RDO/I RO as pilot - with relatively clean data
resource for hiring a good external professional    *  institute quick wins as early as year 2
that would undertake the change management
program that was needed in the areas of change
as they occur.
_~~    m                                          



- 115 -
PTCP Interview
What were the main setback of the Project, and
especially those you specifically encountered?
Lilia C. Guillermo                       The main project setbacks that occurred were initially
Deputy Commissioner of                 associated with the problematic rollouts to the pilot sites.
Information Systems Group               With perseverance and hard work in the simplification of
Bureau of Internal Revenue              ITS programs, and in following up taxpayers, the Bureau
was able to reduce rejected returns from a high of 80% to
a manageable 5 to 10% in the initial rollout sites.
At a certain point, project supervision meetings with
Could you please describe your role or roles         DOF PTCP Steering Committee stopped because of
in the Project?                                      other DOF priorities. This necessitated alternate control
measures by DOF, which included the detailed review of
When the initial discussions for the project began in 1989 -    BIR  applications  for  withdrawal  prior  to  their
1990, I was Chief of the Management Division and the    countersignature, adding to the processing time required
head of BIR computer unit supporting the microcomputer    for applications for withdrawal which strained BIR's
application requirements of BIR (the Revenue Information    relationship with its suppliers. Project funding also
Systems Service. Inc., or RISSI supplied the mainframe    became very difficult in the last year of the project, since
computerization needs of BIR). In 1992, 1 was named    appropriated but unspent budgets reverted back to the
Deputy Project Director of the BIR Tax Computerization    National Government, had to be reinstated into BIR's
Project (TCP). In 1996, 1 became assistant commissioner    budgets. Until corrective action was taken by DBM on
for Information Planning and Quality Service, and finally,
in 1999, as Deputy Commissioner of the Information    request by BIR, there would have been insufficient funds
Systems Group and concurrent Project Director of TCP.  to pay off the rest of the AC-PS contract, despite the
presence of a Forward Obligation Authority for the
What do you think were the main successes            project.
of the Project especially  in your area of
concern?                                             If the project could be done all over again, what
would you recommend to be changed?
The BIR Tax Computerization Project is perhaps the
largest single govemment computerization project    I would make sure that correct manual procedures are in place
ever attempted. While procurement was cited as one    before computerization. I would also ensure that a proper site
of the main risks of the project, the procurement    preparation activity for the distributed computer locations
commenced at the start. This would ensure that ITS rollouts
phase was conducted in a highly transparent manner,    proceeded according to schedule unhampered by lack of site
and was even cited by a government task force    facilities.   I would also insist that one of the early
examining IT procurements, as a model for other    recommendations of the project should be on how to provide
government agencies to adopt.                        market-based  salaries  to  BIR  IT  personnel.    This
recommendation may require a legislative proposal for this
The TCP became the prime mover toward the    purpose.
realization of the Bureau's modernization plan in
achieving "world-class" status, since this involves the
development of a highly sophisticated network of
computerized  tax  systems  as  well  as  the                   AlbertoA.Pio de Roda
transformation of Bureau personnel into a workforce                 Assistant Commissioner of
who  are highly  trained  and  knowledgeable  in               Information Systems Operation Service
information technology.                                             Bureau of Internal Revenue
Likewise, despite the magnitude of the work, all
fourteen envisioned systems were developed and
tested, although implementation of some were
deferred because of the need for BIR to prioritize its    Could you please describe your role or roles in
resources on the more urgent applications.           the Project?
All throughout the project, change and cost control    1992- 1994     1I Consultant (as appointed by CIR
was diligently applied, so that the contract with the                 Ong; assisted in the formulation of the
supplier, Andersen Consulting - Philippine Systems                    TCP specifications).
Products, Inc. did not exceed the budget category
allowed for it under the World Bank loan.
*t- Tax Computerization Project



- 116 -
1994- 1998    Assistant Commissioner of Internal    What do you think were the main successes of
Revenue,  Information   Systems    the Project especially in your area of concern?
Development Service. Oversee the
Development of ITS and Head, ITS    Assisted by expert users involved in the project
Acceptance Committee.              particularly from the Withholding Tax Division as well
as from the field offices, we have developed a
1998 to present Assistant Commissioner of Internal    comprehensive and usable system to reconcile returns
Revenue,  Information  Systems    data. TRS will ensure that the withholding agents remit
Operation  Service. Oversee  the    tax collected in full and will detect understated income
Implementation of ITS.             and underpayment of taxes.
What do you think were the main successes    I am confident that once the prerequisite systems are in
of the Project especially  in your area of    place and fully operational, the TRS will achieve its
concern?                                          purpose. No less than the IMF cited that among the
compliance improvement initiatives of the BIR, we
*  development of ITS on time and on budget       should take advantage of the large amount of income
*  training of BIR IT staff on Systems            information already reported to the Bureau and the
Development and Operations                    TCP's already developed TRS to verify taxpayers'
reported incomes.
What were the main setback of the Project,    What were the main setback of the Project, and
and   especially  those   you   specifically    especially those you specifically encountered?
encountered?
Detailed   System    Specifications   were   not    The effectiveness of TRS can be measured only when
comprehensive and System  Development Quality    full rollout of ITS application is done. Currently in
control could be improved.                        various Revenue Districts, TRS cannot be implemented.
Reporting and matching arrangements under TRS require
If the project could be done all over again,    utilization of reports generated by almost all systems.
what would you recommend to be changed?           If the project could be done all over again, what
I would recommend that during the System          would you recommend to be changed?
Specification phase, representatives from the IS
group should be included to give a broader view of  Computerization is a welcome and an inevitable change
what users has requested so far and not limited to the  particulary in the field of taxation. Nonetheless, the
experience of users assigned to the team.         development of the various systems under ITS is one
thing and its implementation, another. As we introduce
change initiatives such as a project as significant as TCP
in the Bureau, I think, that the personnel affected should
have been prepared (not only on the technical aspects but
also on the attitude and behavioral aspects) for the
Ofelia B. Ibaniez                      expected changes.  As a change management(CM)
.-Issirlant Commissioner of           advocate, I believe CM interventions should have been
Poligy and Planning Service           initiated even during the conceptualization of the TCP.
Bureau of Internal Revenue
Could you please describe your role or roles
in the Project?
I joined the project as Project Steering Committee
(PCS) Chairman for the Tax Reconciliation System
(TRS). As Chairman, I provided overall direction to
the development of the TRS which system intends to
reconcile the income information reported to the BIR
in the taxpayer retums and withholding agents returns
data.



- 117 -
PTC-P Interview
day operations of the BIR. ITS has evolved over time,
with its core function basically intact.
Juan Ingersol A. Castro                   The TCP had its not so nice moments also. During the
Assistant Commissioner of              initial phases of the project, some ideas and facts
Infor,mation Systems Dev't Servic        presented by the expert users from the field which were
Bureau of Internal Reven4e            not considered  or overruled  by  consultants  or
management during the design have proven to be worth
reconsidering. One classic example is the RDO-based
processing proposal which ended up RDC-based.
Realizing this after implementation, now we are going
Could you please describe your role or roles    into RDO-based processing which intends to give
in the Project?                                    ownership to operations people.  Another specific
example is the issuance of TIN from scratch which ended
In August 1994, I started as an analyst (BIR    up in conversion and clean - up of problematic TINs
counterpart) in one of the many teams of the BIR-    from the old system. But the greatest setback is the
TCP who contributed in the preparation of the    Manila pilot. The big bang approach had the people in
Inception Report. Five months later I was assigned    some sort of a state of culture shock. Applying reality
as one of the analysts for the Registration System -    checks, the TCP's flexibility is put to test.
the first system of ITS. My participation included
coming out with  the functional and technical    If the projectcould be done all over again, what
specification and the detailed design. Later part of    would you recommend to be changed?
1995, 1 was moved to the technical team where I
performed database administration and support tasks.    If the project could be done all over again, I suggest full
In summary, I think I was given ample exposure in   time involvement of all concemed, particularly those
both  the business and technical areas of the    who have in depth understanding of the different
registration system.
processes of the bureau, be observed. In this way a
complete scenario of each and everyone's expectations
What do you think were the main successes    can be managed well. More participation, more brains to
of the Project especially in your area of    perform, therefore, less rework. Moreover, when we
concern?                                           embark  on  a big  project, the most appropriate
implementation approach given the timing, manpower,
Currently, the Registration System is the most stable    infrastructure, and budget should be carefully studied,
system  in terms of functionality. This can be    not just because there is a need to implement but because
attributed  to  the  full time  involvement  and    we find the need to provide a system that can aid in the
commitment of knowledgeable users from the field as    delivery of the bureau's services.
well as the information systems group. Processes and
data requirements were carefully analyzed to handle
the basic business and technical needs of the
application system.  It took several focus group
meetings and debates to come up with the most
acceptable design and the result is now being enjoyed       Wilhelmina S. Sefieris
by the ITS or REG converted district offices.          Head Revenue Executive Assistant - ODCIR-ISG
Though I have a limited involvement as far as the
other ITS systems are concerned, I believe that the
same  efforts  were  devoted.  To  date  the
implementation of other systems such as RPS, CBR,
TAS and RCS are being given focus which form part    Could you please describe your role or roles in
of the core systems in line with the CIR's directions    the Project?
for the year 2000.
My involvement with TCP includes the following:
What were the main setback of the Project,    Member, Project Steering  Committee  for NOMIS
and   especially  those   you   specifically       Planning and Control System; Chairperson,  Steering
encountered?                                       Committee for Cost/ Benefit Analysis of BIR-TCP;
Project Manager for the Codes Review Project for BIR
We have to consider the fact that there is no perfect    Transformation Program of Operations Group; Assistant
system, thus, starting from the REG down to the    Project Director for BIR  Transformation  Program
other systems, several enhancements have already    (Operations  Group); Local Coordinating  Manager
been introduced to cater to the demands of the day to
Vit-- Tax  Computerization  Project



- 118 -
(Operations); and  Administrative  Head, Project    What do you think were the main successes of
Management Office.                                 the Project especially in your area of concem?
What do you think were the main successes          As far as the Integrated Tax System (ITS) is concerned,
of the Project especially in your area of    much had been achieved especially on the following:
concern?                                           business processes in the Bureau which were drastically
defined to efficiently carry out the computerization;
The main success of the project are: setting up the    information is processed electronically with the least
infrastructure  for  the  computerization  of tax    human intervention, thereby eliminating the commission
administration  processes;  better communication    of human error; bulk information are processed and
between National Office and field offices, massive    output readily available to users across all sites; on-line
training of personnel all over the country to keep    collection  reconciliation  are  made  possible; and
them  updated on current developments in IT and    transparency in government transactions are enhanced.
business processes, and better service to taxpayers in
areas where ITS has been successfully rolled-out.  What were the main setback of the Project, and
especially those you specifically encountered?
What were the main setback of the Project,
and   especially  those   you   specifically    In the operations of the Revenue Data Center, the
encountered?                                       following setbacks were encountered, which in some
ways have cascaded to different users of the ITS, such as
The project is too big and too complicated with so    lack of funds to maintain the Project; lack of funds to
many objectives. There were simultaneous activities    pursue the nation-wide  roll-out of the ITS; and
but not enough manpower to handle them. Another    compensation structure at the Bureau cannot attract top-
setback is the inability to retain and recruit IT staffs    caliber IT manpower.
to handle critical functions. This is a grave threat for
the successful implementation of the Project.      If the project could be done all over again, what
If the project could be done all over again,    would you recommend to be changed?
what would you recommend to be changed?
-1                                         Like in most IT environment, users may not readily
The primary objective of the project must be to    realize the benefits of ITS which may results to
increase taxpayer's base through registration and  frustrations in the long run.  Such being the case,
clean-up of available database.                    enhancements  to  the   systems  are  necessary.
Enhancements to the existing ITS are desirable rather
The registration system  must first be rolled-out    than changing one or more component(s) of the system.
before any another system. The phasing of roll-out    In short, integration should be pursued vigorously with
must be one RDO  after another.  It must have    useful enhancements implemented along the way.
stabilized in one pilot RDO before rolling out to
another. The subsequent roll-outs may then be by
group if major problems initially encountered in one
site have been fully resolved. Quick fixes or work
around must not be resorted to in order to test the            Cynthia Q. Santos
systems capabil ity.                                             Chief of Statirtics Division
Bureau of Internal Revenue
Alfredo V. Misajon
Head, Makati Data Center of
Bureau of Internal Revenue
Could you please describe your role or roles in
the Project?
Could you please describe your role or roles       I participated in the redesigning of BIR forms (Circa
in the Project?                                    1993 - 1994), and later was tasked as NOMIS-MPG
writer and NOMIS - MPG Trainer.
I joined the Project as Revenue Data Center (RDC)
Head initially of Visayas, then the Southern Luzon
and presently the Makati Data Center.



- 1i19
PTCP Interview
What do you think were the main successes    was expected on some of its obligations (e.g. tax experts,
of the Project especially  in your area of    forms redesign, database design).
concern?
Finally, this led to a situation where crucial CNs which
Revision of BIR forms, coming up with a manual    were less than favorable to BIR were approved. My
procedures guide and conducting the training.     opposition to these CNs is well documented.
What were the main setbacks of the Project,
and   especially  those   you   specifically    If the project could be done all over again, what
encountered?                                      would you recommend to be changed?
Change in administration and non-retention of trained    First of all, I was never in favor of a single large project.
ITS personnel; Technology transfer difficulties from  I believed the bureau would have been better off with
ACPS to BIR such as: TCP design on BIR form 1209    several smaller (maybe even sequential) projects, not
incurs "default" tax collections, the occurrence of    necessarily awarded to a single supplier. Then we could
"suspense" files.                                 have gotten separate projects for process/forms redesign,
building of the ITS, delivery of hardware, etc.
If the project could be done all over again,    If, as was supposed to be the case, it was necessary to
what would you recommend to be changed?            award to a single supplier on a turnkey basis, I would
have simplified the scope so that it could be done in two,
If the project could be done all over again, I suggest    or at most three years. Five Years is too long for an IT
the perfection of ITS generated BIR Form  1209    project
report and generation of collections data by
alphanumeric tax code, by industry/occupation, by
RDO, by month or period.
Luis A. Chanco
Project Supervision Consultantfor
Arnaldo del Rosario                                          BIR - TCP
Former Crown Agents' Consultant                    (Former Crown Agents' Consultant)
Could you please describe your role or roles    Could you please describe your role or roles in
in the Project?                                   the Project?
I was involved in drafting the technical architecture    In 1990, when I was Vice President of the Development
of both the BIR ISSP and the Invitation for Bids, was  Academy of the Philippines, my group, the Information
part of the evaluation team, and later assisted BIR in    Technology  Applications  Group  undertook  the
managina the project (mainly through advise on    preparation of the first Information Systems Plan for
proposed CNs).                                    BIR. In 1992, 1 joined Crown Agents as a Principal
Information Systems Consultant, and was responsible for
What do you think were the main successes    the preparation of the application systems descriptions of
of the Project especially in your area of    the Invitation for Bids for BIR. From 1992 to 1999, 1
concern?                                          took various roles under Crown Agents for the project as
application requirements consultant, procurement adviser
We were able to minimize additional charges by the    for non-computer equipment procurement, organizer for
supplier during project implementation.            FINLINK, liaison between BIR and DOF, BIR and the
World Bank. I was also BIR's consultant in the
What were the main setback of the Project,    preparation of the Implementation Completion Report.
and especially those you specifically
encountered?
I believe that the Bureau started to lose "control" of
the project very early when we (Crown Agents) were
not allowed to join the regular management meetings.
This allowed the supplier to deliver less than what
Tax  Computerization  Project                                                     i



- 120 -
What do you think were the main successes            have easily been written for access by SEC and BOC, to
of the Project especially  in your area of    ensure that their own records carry  correct TINs.
concern?                                             Unfortunately, both BIR and BOC had their hands full in
implementing their respective systems, which made the
One of the successes of the project in my area of    FINLINK project less relevant.
concern relates to the fairly comprehensive statement
of application requirements that was incorporated in    If the project could be done all over again, what
the Invitation  for Bids.   Because the required    would you recommend to be changed?
functionalities were stated ahead of time, the project
steering committees responsible for creating the    An important initial action that should be done is the
functional and technical requirements of ITS had as    preparation of legislation for an early retirement program
their baseline a reasonable statement of requirements    at BIR, and subsequently to exempt BIR from the Salary
for ITS.                                            Standardization Law. This will ensure that the Bureau
will be able to hire and retain good management and
The concept of FINLINK also arose as a direct result   technical staff.
of my discussions with then DOF Undersecretary
Milwida Guevara, Director Delfin G. Espejo and BIR
Assistant Commissioner Alberto Pio de Roda.
FINLINK provided the hardware infrastructure for
the ten connected agencies to exchange their data                       S
with one another.
Cfo1e2r! PSPI)
What were the main setback of the Project,
and especially those you specifically
encountered?
A principal setback in the project was the systems
development approach. It assumed that the expert    Could you please describe your role or roles in
users knelv all there  was to know  about the    the Project?
application system that they were specifying to AC-
PS - and once specifications were frozen, the expert    The role of SunPhil was to develop the computer
user could no longer make revisions, despite the fact    infrastructure  of the  BIR  to  support  the  Tax
that some errors in functionality specification could  Computerization (TCP). This covers the setting up of
only become apparent when the finished software    computer rooms at the various Data Centers, installation
could already be iterative or prototyping approach  of data networking devices, the deployment of servers
could have yielded a more realistic representation of    that will contain and manage the taxpayer databases, and
the requirements of the users.                      workstations for online access to the various district
offices of the Bureau. It also covers the conduct of
Forms design was also not given the key attention it   technical courses to ensure that the Bureau becomes self-
deserved. As a result, forms became overly complex    reliant in sustaining the operations of the ITS.
difficult to accomplish, and encode, causing large
quantities of suspense returns.   The procedures    What do you think were the main successes of
design for the front-end procedures such as taxpayer    the Project especially in your area of concern?
registration and filing also did not receive the depth
of analysis it needed, which resulted in confusion in    SunPhil was able to set up the computer infrastructure to
such  procedures. The Taxpayer Record Update    support the BIR's TCP in accordance with its agreement
(TRU) program of BIR did not take advantage of the    with the BIR such as: the establishment of 5 Data
existence of the TINs database, but preferred to issue    Centers; 48 sites prepared &  supported; 20  SUN
new TINs to taxpayers, an action which virtually    Database Servers; 56 SUN  Workstations; 800  PC
disenfranchised many with existing TINs and who      Workstations; 10 Systems Printers; 100 Workstation
wanted to pay their taxes, but were refused by banks    Printers; 50 WAN Devices; and 150 LAN Devices.
because they were not registered with TRU.
FINLINK was an excellent project, and could have    What were the main setback of the Project, and
yielded quick revenue raising results if information-    especially those you specifically encountered?
sharing applications were implemented. BOC could
have easily developed a top 5000 importers list that    The difficulty of developing the infrastructure can be
could have been cross-checked with their income tax  categorized as follows: the buildings and rooms designed
VAT returns at BIR. BIR on the other hand could    to house the computers are often  dilapidated and
have easily written a TIN verification program could    cramped and thus, made it very difficult to prepare for
-      .,. -          SI 



- 12 1 -
PTCP Interview
computer and electronic equipment; a major portion    Moussa in Nov. 1998. I was awaiting for an official
of the RDOs where computers were deployed are not    replacement to be nominated by the division which
owned by the BIR and thus, the coordination for    "owned" TCP, East Asia's Public Sector Department.
electrical and  computer wiring  was extremely    Between Nov. '98 and March '99 1 acted as the de facto
difficult; the Bureau experienced a high rate of    TTL and in mid March 1999 1 was officially requested
turnover among the technical staff it had trained; and    by EASPR management to be the project's Task Team
payments of the BIR  to the consortium  were    Leader (TTL) which I accepted. Since Mid March 1999 1
extremely  delayed  and  thus, has affected  the    have been closely supervising the project pretty much
operations of the project.                         alone until August 1999. In August 1999, I started to
receive a lot of help and resources from EASPR after an
Other  difficulties   encountered   are:  AC-PS    internal Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review panel in
experienced the imposition of unreasonable criteria    July 1999 rated the project as unsatisfactory as far as
and bureaucratic red tape in the acceptance of the    implementation, design and performance indicators were
products; changes  made  by  the  BIR  in  its    concerned. In December 1999, four other specialists
organization and strategic direction affected some of    looked closely at the project with me to put it in the
the major deliverables of AC-PS; and resentment and    proper  context of  Public  Sector  Reform,  Tax
indifference  of a  majority  of BIR  staff to    Administration and Tax Policy. I  visited the project
computerization.                                   team and related GOP officials three times overall - in
October 98 with Tony Moussa, in May 1999 alone and in
If the project could be done all over again,    December 1999 with Ms Barbara Nunberg (Mission
what would you recommend to be changed?             leader and Public Sector specialist), Ms. Dana Weist
(Senior Economist), Mr. Michael Engelschack (Senior
A central data center, instead of several data centers    Tax Administration Specialist) and Mr. William  Fox
should be set up for the BIR so as to eliminate the    (Tax Policy Consultant). Prior to that another mission
need to train many personnel to man the various data   led by Jaime Caro-Vazquez had visited the project in
centers of the BIR. Resources for computer room    early April 1999 to assess its design, implementation and
renovation can likewise be used to improve the    achievements at the request of the East Asia Public
computer room. The RDOs should be renovated to    Sector Department Management.
include a ceunter where the workstations intended for
taxpayer assistance would be located. The present    What do you think were the main successes of
distribution of the workstations does not give an    the Project especially in your area of concern?
impression that the BIR is computerized.
The projects achieved many of its objectives and was
The BIR  should continue to build upon core    successful in these areas, amongst others, in my opinion:
technologies and platforms adopted in the first ISSP
and/or projects it is currently implementing such as    *  The Philippines today has a modern state of art
E-mail!  Internet,  videoconferencing   systems,       computer software that allows it to do better Tax
Helpdesk and the like. It should likewise continue to  administration for both Internal Revenue (ITS) and
acquire new technologies and incorporate these into     Customs (ACOS).
its existing systems such as computers with fax-    *   Both BIR and BOC have staff who for the most
modem capability, voice mail, call centers, graphical  know how to operate the software in their own
interface/client-server, new software development      specialty area. These staff are using the new system
tools, data  archivinglimaging,  intranet, firewall     on a daily basis and report an improvement in the
security, and data warehousing/mining,                 daily processes and internal communication flow.
*  The TCP has resulted in efficiency gains for both
Bureaus. It also allows to generate reports that are
critical to forecasting and managerial decision and
Samia Melhem                               policy making processes.
Information Teehnology Officer          *  The TCP includes compliance and enforcement
WForld Bank, Washington D.C                  capabilities as well as audit capabilities. All these
will on the long run, and if used in tandem with
sound incentives and enforcement policies, allow the
Tax Administration process to be much fairer and
just than today.
Could you please describe your role or roles    *  The   procurement  process   happened   quite
in the Project?                                        harmoniously for an Informatics project of that size.
Based on our experience at the World Bank
I started working on the project as an interim         computerization projects witness never ending
replacement to the then Task Manager Mr. Tony           procurement problems at the bidding stage, at the
E M  WW't-W Tax Computerization Project



- 1 2 -
selection  stage and then at the equipment    .  I would have made the above project an 8-year
purchase stage. The PTCP did not have any such     project. In the first 2 years nothing would have
problems. No misprocurement happened, and no       happened  in  tax  computerization  other than
major  complaint  was  made  during  the           equipping all the BIR offices with computers and
procurement process.                               training staff. This would have given BIR 2 year
*   Both management teams in BIR and BOC were          to learn about PCs, Windows, email, etc. The next 6
composed of competent dedicated staff who          years would have been the software development
managed and supervised the implementation and      portion of ITS and its rollout.
supervision of the project. BIR in particular had    a  I would have made RDO leadership accountable for
a very professional team who worked extremely      rollout success.
hard to ensure the project's objectives were    *  ITS would have been designed with priorities on
reached.                                           ease of use, audit module and easy to generate
*  The project brought IT and IT awareness at the      reports. The ITS as it is today does not seem easy
GOP. It was amongst the first modernization        to be used as a decision making tool. Also the whole
projects in the Philippines and it has caused,     design of it would have been perhaps revisited (14
because of the employment opportunities it         modules or less?) and BIR management and DoF
created, the labor market to catch-up with         would have been accountable for its development
technology and software development.               not only the BIR IS folks.
*  In general have the project be closely managed by
What were the main setback of the Project,             the BIR I DoF Policy, Strategy and Planning staff as
and   especially  those   you   specifically           well as Operations staff not the BIR ISG staff. This
encountered?                                           made the project a bit of an isolated techie project,
not a serious Business Processes re-engineering
*  The project was not well coordinated with DoF       project.
and DoF's objectives. Somewhere along the line    *  Changed the incentive system for BIR and linked
BIR and DoF stopped communicating well and         salary increases to collection increases. Exempted
that became  a  problem  for the  project.         BIR staff from civil Servant rules and even better
Speciqcally there seems to be a problem.           reform and change all the Civil servant framework
*  The project was too isolated from  the tax          and  base  staff  salaries  on  education  and
administration and policy standpoint. It was       performance.
implemented and marketed by the techies. It
should have been managed by BIR operations
and  the  technology  component  although
important, should have been a small part of a
larger picture, like a Tax administration Reform          Antoun F. Moussa
with a BIR reorganization, businesses process re-
engineering at BIR, major staff skills upgrading.             Fomer Taske Managerr
*  Computerization of BIR should have happened                 lVorldBanlk, Wabhington, DC
before the development of ITS to give BIR staff
some time to absorb the new change, all changes
were introduces at the same time. This was too
much for anybody to absorb.
If the project could be done all over again,    Could you please describe your role or roles in
what would you recommend to be changed?            the Project?
*   I would make the project a smaller component of
a  larger tax  reform  project with  major    At project inception time, I was the World Bank staff
institutional reform at the Tax administration and    representative on a joint WB-IMF  mission  which
policy level, at the judicial/ Tax court level    discussed and agreed with the DOF on the project idea.
(enforcement and compliance issues, penalties,    Subsequently, I acted as a WB mission member, then
etc.) and with a major anti-corruption component    mission  leader/Task  Team  Leader during  project
in the reform project. This would imply a re-    preparation and implementation. I was in such capacity
engineering of some portions of DoF, of BIR and    when I retired from the World Bank in November 1999.
of the tax administration process in general. I
would simplify the process as well for the
taxpayer (forms, etc.) and for the collection staff
of BIR.



- 123 -
PTCP Interview
What do you think were the main successes    *  In  the  efforts to develop  an  integrated  tax
of the Project especially  in your area of             computerization  program  meeting, present and
concern?                                               future requirements, new tax forms and collection
measures were unnecessarily complicated provoking
In my opinion, the project's main success factors     some negative reaction from  taxpayers at the
included, but not limited to, the following:           beginning.
*  A clear political will at the highest level of    *  The local budget constraints and the inability
govemment  to  undergo   a   customs/tax           especially in the case of BIR to have adequate
administration modernization program.              budgetary resources to meet the required training
*  Management leadership and commitment at both        and deployment needs.
the BIR and the BOC and executive capability to    *  While management commitment in both bureaus
"champion" both modernization program.             was clear, this did not necessarily filter down to
*  The "wholesome" approach to the deployment of       some critical areas of revenue collection.
necessary legislative/administrative and technical    *  Due to the above staffing difficulties, the technology
measures.                                         transfer program  in both bureaus was met with
  The use of "turn  key" contracts for the            difficulties.
computerization of both the BIR and BOC.
*  The use of outside consultants to assist both   If the project could be done all over again, what
bureaus in the quality control and in the    would you recommend to be changed?
"integration"   and   deployment   of  the
computerization programs.                      If the project could be done again, I would recommend
*  Alliance with the "private" sector especially in   the following:
the case of the BOC.
*  Pacing  of the organizational changes, staff    *  Insure at the onset administration, ability to enact
training and the computerization efforts in a      and  deploy  adequate  civil service  measures
practical way.                                     especially with respect to recruitment/deployment
*  The ability, both from the DOF/BIR/BOC and          and salary.
the World Bank sides, to maintain some staff    *  Plan for outsourcing requirements beyond current
continaity and to fuse input from consultants,     project life to insure continuity if needed after
international organizations, and  the  private     project closing date.
sector, into a coherent program.               *  Include a more flexible project budget to meet
*  The fact that software development was mapped       *changing requirements over the comparatively long
to institutional requirements first and preceded   life of the project.
computer hardware acquisition and deployment.    *  Include additional legislative measures to fight tax
The ability of the computerization program to      evasion.
accommodate changes as they became needed    *  Insure that sufficient input is provided by taxpayers
and  apparent  -  without  major  obstacles        in the design of simplified process and forms
(ROs,RDOs etc..).                                  especially for tax lodging and collection.
*  Dedication and enthusiasm of the BIR and BOC
management and staff involved in the project.  I hope the above is helpful.  There are many other
elements and detailed discussions which could be made
What were the main setback of the Project,   to cover the above subjects, but I trust, I covered the
and   especially  those   you   specifically       main elements in my judgment.
encountered?
There were, however, some setbacks and problems in
the execution of the project, which impeded progress
in some areas. They include:
*  The inability of both BIR and BOC management
to recruit and retain staff profiles as required by
the project. This is especially true in the case of
technical staff.
*  The overall civil service constraints and the low
civil service salaries for technology specialists.
*  While "outsourcing" the required assistance was
contemplated, it was not pursued in time and per
project requirements.
>U4t_ Tax  Computerization  Project                                                     11



- 1 24 -
* The financial and logistical support provided by the
Group to all programs and projects related to the
Estelita C. Aguirre                       TCP.
Depu!y Commissioner of
Rejource Management Gromp              What were the main setback of the Project, and
Bureau of Internal Revenue            especially those you specifically encountered?
Funding for the TCP was provided through a World
Bank loan - in this regard, funding remains a major
problem for the TCP, particularly insofar as the local
Could you please describe your role or roles      counterpart funds are concered.
in the Project?                                   Information has also reached the National Office about
the considerable difficulty that was experienced by the
I have had the privilege to serve both the Resource    Pilot Districts during the initial roll-outs of the ITS.
Management and Operations Groups throughout the    Both revenuers and taxpayers alike found it hard to adapt
duration of the Tax Computerization Project.  A    to the paradigm  shift that is part and parcel of
greater part of my service, however, has been and    computerization.
continues to be, with the Resource Management
Group. In this capacity, my primary role in the TCP    A great number of the rank-and-file, particularly those
is the sourcing and allocation of the various resources    who have served for two to three decades, were simply
in terms of funding, equipment and personnel -    unable to appreciate the benefits of computerization,
needed by the Project.                             much less cope with the need to undergo computer
training, until they were actually able to learn "hands-on"
I am also directly and actively involved in the parallel    operations.  Fortunately, this viewpoint has changed
Change Management Project, as well as the TCP      significantly over the passage of time, particularly in the
Training Program, both of which are geared toward    Computerized Districts.
the Bureau-wide "acceptance" and integration of the
changes - procedural. organizational and perceptual -    The taxpaying public experienced some difficulty in
brought about by the TCP.                          getting accustomed to the newforms. These new forms,
which were supposed to be taxpayer-friendly, were
What do you think were the main successes    actually encoder-friendly. At present, however, the
of the Project especially  in your area of    enhanced versions of these forms are much more
concern?                                          taxpayer-friendly.
Insofar as RMG's involvement with the TCP is    On the whole, however, in some respects the TCP could
concerned,  I  believe  its  most  significant    be seen as a case of "too much, too soon".  As the
achievements are:                                  Bureau was under pressure to complete the TCP within a
relatively short time frame, we had - at the start -
*  The procurement and allocation of computer    wanted to roll-out all the ITS systems simultaneously
hardware and peripherals that represent the    only to decide later that we shallfocus on the most basic
physical aspect of the Integrated Tax System and    ITS subsystems. Also, the innate psychological resistance
through which the ITS is being implemented and    to change was not sufficiently addressed during the early
utilized;                                     stage and we recognize that until now we need assistance
in the change management aspect of the TCP.
*  The improvement of the level of computer
literacy  and  effectiveness of the  Bureau's   If the project could be done all over again, what
personnel through the conduct of numerous    would you recommend to be changed?
training programs and seminars;
Given the opportunity to do the TCP over again, I would
*  The production and distribution of redesigned    change the Project's initial approach of installing all ITS
BIR  Forms that reflect both  the changes    subsystems simultaneously at the Pilot Districts. The
introduced by the CTRP and the data format    computerization of the Pilot Districts would, thus, begin
requirements of the ITS;                       with the most basic ITS subsystems such as the
Registration System, CBT and Retums Processing
*  The recruitment and placement of IT personnel    Systern.
to staff the Bureau's Revenue Data Centers and
Pilot District Oftices; and



- 125 -
PTCP Interview
I would also conduct a more extensive information
campaign to inform the public of as many aspects of
the TCP as possible. This campaign would involve
frequent seminars and discussion workshops with
focus groups and non-governmental organizations to
allow taxpayers the chance to articulate their queries
and comments regarding the computerization of the
Bureau. The campaign would also involve detailed
explanations of the various ITS subsystems, their
respective documentary requirements and the benefits
that the use of the systems would afford the public.
These activities would enable the public to be better
informed about the ITS and its various aspects.
" ".MF4*r= Tax Computerization Project                                                             M



- 126 -
Appendix 5
BOC TCP Implementation Completion Report
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1. The major objective is to support improvements in tax administration by providing
technical/specialist assistance, staff/user training, hardware and related equipment,
operating and application software, and support equipment and facilities.
2. The objective is clear and realistic. There have been no significant
modifications.
3. The project demanded a lot of the management's time, effort and cooperation
especially during mobilization and initial implementation. It also required changes in
the Bureau's operations (business process re-engineering) such as the use of a new
form which adopts the UN lay-out key, the streamlining of import entry and cargo
processing, the widespread acceptance and use of information technology,
improvement of the workplaces and facilities, and change management (including
organizational re-structuring).
4. The project was considered as complex because it was the first time for the Bureau to
implement -
a. a foreign-funded project which involves both non-local procurement and
implementation rules
b. an IT project with a countrywide scope (17 provinces in 13 regions)
c. a multi-party project involving four major suppliers/consultants (Unisys,
UNCTAD, Crown Agents, Development Academy of the Philippines), coordinated
with the Department of Finance and monitored by various agencies
d. a turnkey project with various components (applications enhancement and
implementation, hardware, software, non-computer equipment, civil works,
change management, and services including training, project management and
control, maintenance, facilities management, technical support, and systems
integration).
5. The main risks to the project were problems on sustainability such as-
a. the ability to hire and retain adequately trained and qualified staff to operate the
system - if proposals to hire additional staff, on contractual basis, thru outsourcing
and/or from the creation of new positions will not prosper, non-IT customs staff
can be utilized instead. Giving proper training and motivation may not however
satisfy the high-level of qualification or skills the jobs require.
b. the budget appropriations for the operation and maintenance of the



- 127 -
system and facilities - proposed budget may be reduced, considering the
huge amount involved, and the tedious process the proposal has to go
through. Budget cuts will have negative effects on system implementation,
performance and outputs.
6. The project responded well to new development priorities, such as the increase in the
no. of port sites, the adoption of the transaction valuation for shipments and
electronic exchange of information with other government agencies and the
transacting public.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1. The project satisfactorily achieved the objectives as stated in the Staff Appraisal
Report. The original no. of target implementation sites which was 7 is now spread
out to 21 sites. The Automated Customs operations System (ACOS), the core of
which is ASYCUDA++, is operational in 18 sites, while office automation is running
in 3 other sites pending the completion of ACOS module(s) for implementation. All
sites interconnected via a wide area network that virtually spans the entire country.
2. There were no categorical mention in the SAR of standards by which to judge the
project objectives and how they were achieved.
3. Table B.3: Key Result Areas
I. Provision of    Unix Servers (Unisys):
hardware and      a. Main Application - OCOM, CCC
software          b. Systems Development - OCOM, CCC
c. POM
d. MICP
e. NAIA
f. Cebu Regional (for Visayas sites)
g. Davao Regional (for Mindanao sites)
h. E_mail servers (all sites)
i. Back-up/redundant servers
Workstations: More than 550 Unisys PCs distributed in all sites
ASYCUDA++ in ACOS: This is the application software
tailored and enhanced for the Philippine Customs by
UNCTAD Manila (assisted by BOC IT staff), and
implemented in 18 sites (another three sites waiting for the
completion of other modules)
Office Automation: E-mail and MS Office implemented in
all sites
(Note: All hardware/base software were provided by Unisys)



- 128 -
II. Provision of    Procurement of project vehicles, office equipment, audio-video
non- computer   equipment/tools for presentation and conferences, environmental
equipment      equipment such as generators and air conditioners. These are
meant to support/compliment the BOC modernization program.
III. Training of  a. No. of IT staff trained - all 50 IT staff
staff            No. of courses, Technical - 17
No. of runs - 28
b. No. of staff trained (IT and non-IT) - 2,500
No. of courses, Non-technical - 34
No. of runs - 647
Note: a. The training program was handled by Unisys, with
assistance coming from UNCTAD and BOC staff
b. Training and public awareness programs were also
held for the transacting public, other agencies,
stakeholders
c. Most sessions were conducted in the 3rd Floor CRIC
Bldg. which was renovated into a Training Center
d. Training plan, equipment, materials and tools were
provided by Unisys
e. Regional Training Centers were set up in Cebu
and Davao.
II.    Site        Construction: - Customs Computer Center
Preparation                  -  POM
- MICP
- NAIA
- Batangas
Renovation:  - Training Center (CRIC Bldg.)
- Cebu
- Legaspi
All other sites underwent some minor repairs, renovations and/or
refurbishing. Required non-computer equipment (furniture,
fixtures and environmental equipment) were provided. Some of
the equipment were provided by Unisys. Cabling was done by
Unisys. Telecommunication facilities were installed.
IV. Reorganization  Executive Order #463 was signed on January 9, 1998, creating the
of IT unit     Management Information Systems and Technology Group
(MISTG) headed by a Deputy Commissioner and composed of 92
positions (78 of which are IT positions). The organizational
structure of MISTG is one of the outputs of the Development
Academy of the Philippines under the Change Management
consultancy program.



- 129 -
VI. Technical    a. Procurement (Bidding) - Crown Agents
Assistance/    b. Project Supervision - Manuel Bulatao
Consultancy    c. Project Implementation - Crown Agents
d. Change Management, 1st cycle - Development Academy of
the Philippines
e. Change Management, 2nd cycle - Unisys
f. Y2K - Unisys
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
1. Factors not generally subject to govermnent control, e.g. world market and
prices, have had negligible effect on the project.
2. Some factors generally subject to government control had substantially
affected the project in a counterproductive manner. The delay in the release of
counterpart funds, esp. those intended for site preparation, altered the roll-out
schedule. The time-consuming reviews for approval by other agencies of various
project actions (e.g. hiring of IT personnel, supplier invoices, withdrawal application
signatories, etc.) resulted in delays which reflected negatively on the Bureau's project
performance.
3. There were also some factors generally subject to BOC control that had substantial
counterproductive effects on the project like the addition of 15 outports as
implementation sites which stretched project timetables, and required additional
resources thereby escalating costs. The no. of staff assigned full-time by management
for project implementation tasks was insufficient to process on-time voluminous
documentation on supplier deliveries, acceptances, change orders, contractual issues,
invoices, and audits. This has also led eventually to slow disbursements.
4. As a result of the increase in implementation sites, most of the hardware and
software were upgraded in order to speed up system performance, increase data
storage capacity and processing capability, and minimize technical problems.
Additionally, services like training program expanded, the telecommunications
network and related facilities grew, the requirement for supplies/ consumables
multiplied, and another round of Change Management program was conducted to
support user acceptance of the expansion.
The national government's directive for govermnent agencies to address the Y2K
issue by contracting of Y2K consultants also contributed to the price increase.
These changes upped the contract price, from US$8.190m to US$1 1.885m.
5. During the procurement stage (refer to following table), the evaluation of the



- 130 -
bids and the post-qualification of the winning bid took six more months to finish due
to the level of detail and comprehensiveness the process underwent. As a result, there
was a corresponding slide in the 5-year implementation schedule. Toward the end of
the implementation phase, the increase in sites resulted in an extension of project end-
date.
Loan Signed: July 15, 1993
Reference for the Target Dates below: Invitation For Bids
Activity           Target Date I   Date Accomplished
Issuance of the IFB         Mar 31, 1993         Mar 31, 1993
Bid submission              Jul 13, 1993          Jul 13, 1993
Technical Bid opening       Jul 13, 1993          Jul 13, 1993
Economic Bid opening        Sep 13, 1993          Nov 5, 1993
Submission of evaluation    Sep 22, 1993          Jun 10, 1994
results to WB
Contract award              Oct 21, 1993          Jun 13, 1994
Post-qualification completed    Nov 12, 1993      Mar 25, 1994
Contract signing            Dec 13, 1993          Jun 29, 1994
Start of Implementation Phase  Dec 13, 1993       Jun 29, 1994
End of Implementation Phase   Dec 31, 1998       De 31, 1999
* Extended from June 30, 1999
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1. The Philippine Tax Computerization Project concluded on December 31, 1999, and
with it, the primary source of funding for said project - the World Bank loan. Hence-
forth, the project, and all other computerization initiatives of the Bureau, which are
now woven into the mainstream of Customs day-to-day operations, are expected to be
supported by the local budget.
2. Relative to the proposed budget appropriations, there were pronouncements and
declaration of support from both executive and legislative branches of the government.



- 131 -
3. For the year 2000, the budget requested by the Bureau for the maintenance and
enhancement/ expansion of the program was drastically cut. Without any
alternative funding source, one or more of the following consequences will
logically follow: a) computer systems operation limited for up to six months only,
b) progressive shutdown of computerized sites and operation, c) reversion to manual
procedures, and d) termination of system development efforts.
4. Currently, all efforts are focussed towards sustainability.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
1. People involved during the project identification, preparation and appraisal stages are
no longer available (i.e. retired, resigned or otherwise separated from the service) nor
can they be reached, to provide assessment of World Bank's performance during the
said stages.
2. The Bank's performance during the supervision stage of the project was "highly
satisfactory" based on the ff. considerations -
a. project progress implementation was adequately reported
b. implementation problems were immediately identified, assessed
and addressed for resolution
c. sufficient attention was paid to likely development impact, as in
the case of document processing and cargo release time
d. advice given to the Bureau were well thought out, while follow-ups
on required actions/decisions were consistent
e. loan covenants were enforced and remedies were exercised. An
example of this remedy was the creation of working groups (e.g.
Site Preparations Committee) to assume some of the functions
of the undermanned Project Implementation Unit
f. the Bank staff showed flexibility in suggesting or approving
needed modifications, such as those on the non-computer
equipment and roll-out strategy
g. the Bank and the Bureau had a congenial, working relationship



- 132 -
3. Reporting was achieved through the regularly submitted Semestral Report, as well as
through the Bank supervision missions and tri-partite review meetings, and through
the reports/ aide memoirs that ensued from such missions/ meetings.
Overall, the Bank staff spent sufficient time with the Bureau. The timing of
supervision missions has been very appropriate. The no. of Bank staff and
consultants, and their skill mix was well suited for the Bureau. No staff continuity
problems were encountered due to a seamless transition from I task manager to the
next.
4. There were no deviations from Bank policies and procedures.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1. People who were involved during the project preparation stage are no longer available
nor can they be reached, to provide assessment of the Bureau's performance during
the said stage.
2. BOC's overall performance during the project implementation was satisfactory with
regard to the ff. areas -
a. Sector policies and institutional development - BOC personnel became aware
of the impact of their individual roles and their contribution toward the success
of a major undertaking such as the PTCP. Considering how occupied the BOC
officials were in the performance of their regular as well as other ad hoc
functions, their involvement in the project showed their concern in enhancing
the efficiency and effectiveness of the Bureau in the delivery of service to its
client/stakeholders. It likewise displayed their seriousness in elevating the
Customs service to a world-class level. From the central office and the Metro
Manila Ports down to the Outports, the whole BOC community extended their
cooperation to the project staff and support to the project-related activities.
They welcomed the introduction of modem tools and methodologies in the
performance of their day-to-day functions, in the process acknowledging the
benefits gained from using same.
b. Overall implementation and operation - although the PIU lacked full-time
staff, BOC managed to put up several standing committees such as the
Management Oversight Committee (headed by the Commissioner), Site
Preparations Committee, Change Control Board, and Acceptance Committee
which discharged some of PIU's responsibilities. Directly under the Oversight
Committee is the PTCP Project Management (PM) which actually managed
and steered the implementation of the project. The BOC National Project
Director chaired the PM, with the PIU Head, BOC Finance Officer and
supplier/ consultant project directors as regular members. It is worth
mentioning that the supplier/consultants delivered value-added services, more



- 133 -
than what was contractually expected of them, that contributed much to the
successful roll-out of ACOS. As an example, they introduced revisions which
had facilitated the change control and acceptance procedures.
3. The satisfactory performance of BOC can be attributed mainly to -
a. the capability and flexibility of the BOC management in harnessing and
amplifying the level of support and cooperation of the major players involved
in the project
b. the combined managerial, subject matter (operations) and technical expertise
of the top BOC management which influenced the rest of BOC officialdom
c. the wealth and depth of technical capability and experience the BOC
IT staff amassed from years of implementing various diverse albeit
smaller-scale IT projects
d. the eventual acceptance of the BOC community and its clients/stakeholders,
primarily due to the Change Management Program, of the necessity of
modem technology and processes in realizing a cost-effective, more efficient,
faster, and reliable way of doing business
e. the skills, dedication, flexibility, and hard work the supplier/consultants put
into the project, their openness in sharing their expertise and lessons learned
from other projects they have previously handled, and their enthusiasm in
assisting BOC in areas other than those scoped by their contracts.
4. The quantity and quality of management and staff involved in the project as previously
mentioned was satisfactory. Committees were adequately staffed with officials who
were experts in the area(s) tackled by their specific committee. The Site Preparations
Committee for example was chaired by the former Director of the former EDP Service
of the Bureau and had as its members the head of the General Services,
Administration, Accounting, and Budget units, as well as the heads of the site
concerned. To enhance their capabilities, all members underwent training on project
management courses (e.g. modem project management methodologies). Apart from
that, the BOC management was able to establish a harmonious working relationship
with all suppliers/consultants that helped much in resolving project issues fast and
speeding-up the attainment of milestones.
5. The performance of the Crown Agents as project consultant was satisfactory.
Immediately upon mobilization, the Bureau and the consultants established a cordial
working relationship, such that the latter generously shared their know-how in most
facets of project management and implementation to BOC. Their recommendations
and hands-on assistance in, among others, handling the different components of the
project, esp. resources, schedules and outputs, on the roll-out of ACOS, in the
resolution of financial and contractual issues, in conceptualizing effective systems and



- 134 -
procedures, and in the coordination/integration of efforts, including Change
Management, of all parties (internal/ external) concerned went well according to the
mission, focus and direction of the BOC
6. Government commitment was satisfactory although some amount of delays was
inevitable for a project as large as the PTCP. Even as counterpart funding was
allocated, there was some delay in its release. Even as MISTG was created, approval
of appointments for new hires was also delayed. However, we cannot recall of any
government interference beyond what was expected, except for the closing period of
the project.
7. The project monitoring function and evaluation were adequate, considering that it was
a collective effort of all the major players through the Project Management that was
involved. The PM made it a point to meet regularly, even when the project was doing
well. It should be noted though that it was the Bureau which steered this group into
developing a critical view, always on the look-out for ways to manage slippage or
inactivity, if any, and to amplify successful strategies.



8. Status of Legal Covenant
Covenant   Present    Originai    R.viaed          Description
Agreement     Section      Type      Status      Fufilkment  Fuillrent     of Covenant                                     Comrnents
Date       Date
Commitment  3.0la of the              Achieved   Dec01       Apr 08      a.                   a.                                                establishing an
to the       Loan                                 1993 -      1994 -         integrated,          implementation of applications software package (ASYCUDA+)
objectives of  Agreement                          Dec 31     Dec 31          computerized     a.
the proJect                                       1998        1999           tax system           systems software and services (systems integration, project management,
training, facilities management, technical support, maintenance)
a.                  a.                                                 provision of
hardware and         and enhanced for Philippine Customs) is being implemented in 21 sites, using
system software     Unisys-supplied goods
(Note: Extension due to increase in implementation sites)
- do -       3.01a of the             Achieved   Sep 30     1 phase -  Study and technical    Crown Agents was commissioned to prepare Change Management consultancy bid
Loan                                1994        Dec 29     assistance on        documents. CM contract signed with the Development Academy of the Phils. for
Agreement                                       1995       organizational       the first phase, and with Unisys for the last phase. The last phase took charge of the
improvement (change  additional port sites covered by implementation. One notable output is the
2nd phase   management)         organization of the BOC Management Information Systems and Technology
- Jul 01                        Group, the new IT unit
1999
- do -       3.01a of the             Achieved   Dec 31      See         Provision of office/    Contract award for non-computer equipment bid (local) commenced Dec 29, 1994
Loan                                1994       comments  laboratory equipment                                                                                  w
Agreement                                                  and vehicles         Contract award for intemational competitive bid commenced Dec 01, 1995
(Note: Awarding delayed due to signiticant revision of requirements and
evaluation criteria)
Carry-out    3.01b of                 Achieved   Dec 31      Sep 30      Establishing         Green, yellow and red lanes (of classifying import shipments)
project in    the Loan                            1993        1994       simplified import
accordance    Agreement                                                  clearance procedures
with Action
Plan
- do -       3.Olb of                 Achieved   Dec 31                  Establishing         Lcgislation approved
the Loan                            1993                   increased penalties
Agreement                                                  for smuggling
- do -       3.O1b of                 Achieved   Dec 31                  Consolidation of all   Legislation approved
the Loan                            1993                   customs tax
Agreement                                                  legislation



- do -      3.Olb of                 Achieved   Jul 01      Jul 01      Appointing 2         Technical staff were holdovers from the procurement stage.
the Loan                (partial)    1993       1993        computer specialists
Agreement                                                   and 5 full-time staff   Full complement at the start; 3 staff remained few months later until project end.
for the PIU          The four other staff were re-assigned to other project areas; they were replaced by
working committees.
- do -       3.01b of                 Achieved   Dec 31       Nov 23      Sending to the Bank   Bid documents were for both local and intemational competitive bidding.
the Loan                             1993       1994        the bidding
Agreement                                                   documents for non-   (Note: Delay due to substantial change in priorities/ requirements, and evaluation
computer equipment   criteria)
- do -       3.01 b of                Achieved   Aug 31       Jul 01      Appointing 5         Staff were holdovers from the procurement stage.
the Loan                (partial)    1993       1993        computer staff
Agreement                                                   personnel in respect   Full complement at the start; 3 staff remained few months later until project end.
of Project           Other staff were re-assigned to systems development/roll-out; their PIU functions
Implementation       were assumed by working committees.
- do -       3.01b of                 Achieved   Dec 31       See         Awarding contracts    Contract award for non-computer equipment bid (local) commenced Dec 29, 1994
the Loan                             1994       comments  for non-computer
Agreement                                                   equipment            Contract award for intemational competitive bid commenced Dec 01, 1995
( Note: Awarding delayed due to significant revision of requirements and
evaluation criteria)
- do         3.OIb of                 Achieved   Sep 30       Jun 11      Signing ofthe        Crown Agents contracted
the Loan                             1993       1993        contract for project
Agreement                                                   supervision
- do -       3.01 b of                Achieved   Dec 31       On-going   Completing the 11 -    Some reforms continually being updated.
the Loan                             1993                   Point Reform
Agreement                                                   Program
- do -       3.01b of                 Achieved   Jan 31       Nov 11      Appointing 10        10 Information Center Specialists from the Bureau's IT unit allocated to UNCTAD
the Loan                            1995        1994        additional computer   project team
Agreement                                                   staffpersonnel in
respect of project
implementation
- do -       3.01b of                 Achieved   Jun 24       Dec 01     Inviting proposals for  Process initiated, but stopped. Management decided to use local fund instead of
the Loan                            1994        1995        the reorganization   loan proceeds (hence, local contracting rules were applied).
Agreement                                                   study
- do -       3.Olb of                 Achieved   Sep 30       Dec 29      Signing the          DAP was contracted for the CM consultancy which included reorganization study
the Loan                            1994        1995        consultancy contract
Agreement                                                   for the reorganization
study



- do         3.01 b of                Achieved   Jun 30       Feb 01     Starting the         Delay was due to the prioritization of change management program urgently
the Loan                            1995        1997        implementation of    required for the roll-outt implementation of ACOS at port sites
Agreement                                                  the reorganization
study
- do -       3.01b of                 Achieved   Dec 31       Ongoing    Completing the       Full implementation constrained by Civil Service and DBM approvals, and
the Loan                            1997                   implementation of     directives from the Office of the President
Agreement                                                  the reorganization
study
Allocation in  3.02b of               Achieved   Annual       Annual     Allocation of local    Local funds allocated annually up to 1999 but amount was based on revised
the annual    the Loan                (partial)    1993 -     1993 -     funds for fiscal year-  requirements and priorities.
budget local   Agreement                          1998        1999        1993 - P41m
counterpart                                                               1994 - P108m         Release of some funds a bit delayed though.
funds                                                                     1995 - P94m
1996 - P96m
1997 - P87m
Establish-    3.03 of the             Achieved   Jul 31       Feb 21,    Satisfactory -       TOR complete.
ment of PIU,  Loan                    (partial)    1994       1994
staffed with   Agreement                                                 Terms of Reference    Technical staff were holdovers from the procurement stage.
a project
manager and                                                               and                  Full complement at the start; 3 staff remained few months later until project end.
5 technical                                                                                    Other staff were re-assigned to systems development/ roll-out; their PIU functions
staff                                                                     Staffing             were assumed by working committees.
Procurement  3.05 of the              Achieved    Various                 Procurement of       Satisfactorily completed
of goods and   Loan                                                       goods and
consultants    Agreement                                                  consultants services
services                                                                 should be govemed
by the provisions of
Schedule 4 of the
Loan Agreement
Financial     Article IV              Achieved   Various                  Maintenance of       Satisfactorily completed
Covenants    of the Loan                                                 separate records and
Agreement                                                   accounts to reflect
sound accounting
practices and
operations, including
audit



- 138 -
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
1. The entire outcome of the project can be rated as "satisfactory".
2. The factors considered for the rating were-
a. surpassing the attainment of major objectives
b. sound and adequate institutional development
3. The major factor which prevented the outcome from obtaining a highly satisfactory
rating is the issue on sustainability. The following requirements to sustain the project
after the five-year implementation period were not fully realized:
a. counterpart staffing
b. local budget
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS
1. The plan for the project's operation for year 2000 is to maintain/sustain existing
computer system and facilities, and to upgrade/enhance them only if an absolutely
urgent need arises. The scope and level of operation will depend primarily on the
approved budget and other possible fund sources.
2. The ff. appropriate arrangements are provided:
a. Technical - upgrade/enhancements will depend on urgent new or additional
application systems implementation requirements and availability of funds. No
deviation from existing hardware/software platform is immediately foreseen.
b. Financial - main fund source will still be the national budget appropriations.
Required budget for the year however, has been substantially and arbitrarily
reduced. Other possible funding sources are being studied with urgency.
c. Commercial - alternative fund sources is the provision of statistical reports to
requesting parties at a fee, and/or allocation of a percentage of the EDI/DTI fees
and charges
d. Staffing and Training - the existing complement of MISTG is insufficient. More
staff needed to service most of the outports. Proposals will be submitted for
sustained staff hiring, either as contractuals or thru out-sourcing, or (in the long
run) amending the executive order creating MISTG in order to incorporate more
technical positions.



- 139 -
e. Adequate management - a deputy commissioner for MISTG has been appointed.
The resulting vacancy in the director position has been filled up by a senior official
with expertise on customs operations and valuation (this is believed to benefit
MISTG in the development and implementation of systems for those areas).
3. Performance indicators by which operations can be monitored and evaluated for
consideration.
4. Recommended follow-up action from the Bank:
- enforcement of borrower commitment on sustainability
5. Desired follow-up projects and timetables will be discussed during the workshop
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
1 . The most significant positive lessons learned can be deduced mostly from the section
on Borrower Performance, i.e., the project achieved a good chance of success due to
the ff. factors:
a. concrete, visible, unwavering top management support
b. flexible and ingenious strategies
c. involvement of user/stakeholders in all phases of the project
d. hard work, dedication and skills of the major players
e. the change management program
2. The most significant negative lessons learned:
a. if anything can go wrong - it will
b. never be optimistic when it comes to money (spec. fund releases)
c. never be optimistic when it comes to deadlines (spec. on site preparation)
d. "follow-up" is an infamous but very critical word in the bureaucracy
e.
3. These are reflected in the arrangements for the project's future operations
through.
a. Technical - basically, no changes on the platform that would drain already
depleted resources
b. Financial - proposed budget overestimated to offset any expected cuts
c. Staffing and Training - enjoining and training non-IT customs staff to take on IT
roles



- 140 -
d. Adequate management - permanent appointment of a MISTG deputy
commissioner who shall be actively involved in the Bureau's planning and
direction-setting exercises
e. Measures to maximize project benefits - continuing consultation with
users/stakeholders
4. It is relevant for the borrowing/implementing agency to conduct an in-depth study on
the sustainability of similar projects in the future even prior to the loan negotiation
phase. The study must involve the active participation of the Budget Department,
Civil Service Commission (if additional staff is needed), the National Computer
Center (if IT goods/services is needed), and the Office of the President.



Appendix 6A: PARTICIPANTS
INTENSIVE LEARNING IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT WORKSHOP
APRIL 12, 2000. THE WORLD BANK OFFICE MANILA
PARTICIPANTS                       FIRM                        SIGNATURE
Arnaldo-del Rosarno          President
Financial Software Technologies,
Inc.
Arnold Boongaling            Informnation Technology Officer III
Bureau of Customs
Caroline Anne Reyes         OIC, ISDS Bureau of Intemal
Revenue
Cecile Reyes                 Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of
Customs
Corazon Azana                Director,
Bureau of Customs
Comelio C. Gison             Undersecretary
Department of Finance
Fe Timonera                 ACPAPP
Guillermo Parayno, Jr.       Former Commissioner of
Customs
Isaberita Papa              EVP United Overseas Bank
Rene Masagca



- 142 -
I
4-
4-
 E 
Co 
                             iw
o 0  

WI _    C           Wrff
OC                                 4,
0<       
0
0
C
0                  0
0
0  4)
E          0    E
-, -  -,-J  w



0     0   0 0(I    0   00   0) a )(
X  =   9 =ro n        o,         11  v    
a~~~~~~                     B 3 r. E, jc-  i,:o  
@~~~ O3 cO (n n         3X<
(I)~ ~~~~~w 0
4<  ~   ~       -~-381 -
"m         0           0    :
Co   ~~(    0                    "  0DS 
g                ccn  o-nco ,
(A   )   oi                4< i 
0                        c0  u      98
10     0        3.
(D- -n              0S-             0
0- %<a, '  co                     C        0
0                   (
g~~~~~C 0
P7T



World Bank Staff
Name                      SignatCre
AjoyiusUrd



- 145 -
Appendix 6B
Agenda for the TCP Intensive Learning Workshop
Wednesday April 12/2000
Resident Mission, World Bank
8:30 am to 9:00am:   Coffee
9:00am to 10:30     Introduction, Country Director (10 minutes)
Presentation of Project's outcome and status: BIR (30 minutes)
Presentation of Project's outcome and status, BOC (30 minutes)
Presentation of the Project and its importance, WB (20 minutes)
10:30 am to 10:45 am: Coffee Break
10:45 am to 11:30 am Discussion on project outcomes
11:30 to 12:30 PM:   Challenges encountered during project implementation
Participants write all challenges that affected the project on large sheets on the walls, then
rank these by order of importance
12:30 PM- 1:30 PM    Lunch
1:30 PM - 2:00 PM    Reporting on challenges encountered based on earlier session.
2:00 PM- 3:15 PM         Lessons Learnt and Best Practices distilled from Project
Participants in three break-out sessions:
Track 1: Tax Administration and Policy Issues
Track 2: Public Sector Reform and governance issues
Track 3: Computerization of both BIR and BOC
3:15 PM - 3:30 PM:  Coffee Break
3:30 PM - 4:30 PM:  Reporting on Lessons Learnt (10 minutes/group)
Open Discussion on the future of the modernization effort



