Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8162
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2016-BR)
NOVEMBER 6, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America anrd the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the penormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Cruzado Novo (NCz$)l
US$1.00 - NCzS1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEARS
Governoent of Brazil - January 1 to December 31
Projects             - April 1 to March 31
1/ On January 16, 1989, the currency was changed from Cruzado to Cruzado
Novo (Cz$1.000 - NCz$l).



THi WORLD BANK                VOl OFICIAL U  ONL
Washangon. DC. 20433
US.A.
DC.k co Mawtaw.CswaI
Ollitad OttAetiu
November 6, 1989
NEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil Second Agricultural
Research Project (Loan 2016-BR)
Attached, for information is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Brazil Second Agricultural Research
Project (Loan 2016-BR)n prepared by the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office. Further evaluation of this project by the
Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfomane
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Sank authoation.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS IN TEXT
CGIAR               Consultative Group for International Agricultural
Research
CIAT                Centro Internacional da Agricultura Tropical
(International Center for Tropical Agriculture)
CIM YT              Centro Internacional de Melhoramento do Milho e Trigo
(International Center for the Improvement of Maize and
Wheat)
CIP                 Centro Internacional da Batata
(international Potato Center)
DTC                 Departamento Tdcnico Cientifico - EMBRAPA
(Department of Science and Technology)
EMBRAPA             Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agri-ultural Research Corporation)
IARC                Centro Internacional de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(International Agricultural Research Center)
FPRI                Instituto Internacional de Pesquisa de Politica
Allment±cia
International Food Policy Research Institute
IICA                Instituto Interamericano para Cooperacion en Agricultura
(Interamerican Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture)
PCR                 Project Completion Report
PND                 Plan Nacional de Desenvolvimento
(National Development Plan
POLONORDESTE        Programa de Desenvolvimento do Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Development Program for the Integrated Areas of the
Northesist)
POLONOROESTE        Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste
(Integrated Development Program of the Northwest)
PRONAPA             Programa Nacional de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(National Program for Agricultural Research)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriution.



ABBREVIATIONS IN TEXT (cont d)
SAP                Special Action Program
SAR                Staff Ippraisal Report
SECIN              Secretaria de Controle Interno
(Federal Secretariat of Internal Control)
SEPLANJSUBIN       Secretaria de Planejamento/Secretaria de Cooperag,o
Economica e T4cnica Internacional
(Secretariat of Planning/Secretariat of International
Economic and Technical Cooperation)
SPCA               Sistema Cooperativo de Pesquisa Agropecuiria
(Cooperative System for Agricultural Resea'ch)
STN                Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
(Secretariat of the National Treasury)



LIST OF EMBRAPA RESEARCH STATIONSIUNITS IN THE PROJECT
CPAC               Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuiria dos Cerrados                        IS
(Research Center for Agriculture in the Cerrados)
CPATSA             Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Research Center for Agriculture in the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
CPATU              Centro de Pesquisa Agropecudria do Tr6pico tmido
(Research Center for Agriculture in the Humid Tropics)
CTAA               Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Tecnologia Agroindustrial
de Alimentos
(National Research Center for Agro-Industry and Food
Technology)
CENARGEN           Centro Nacional de Recursos Gen6ticos e Biotecnologia
(National Research Center for Genetic Resources and
Biotechnology)
CNPA               Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Algodao
(National Center for Rcsearch on Cotton)
CNPAI              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Agricultura Irrigada
(National Center for Research on Irrigated Agriculture)
CNPC               Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Caprinos
(National Center for Research on Goats)
CNPDA              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Defesa da Agricultura
(National Center for Research on Plant Protection and
the Environment)
CNPGC              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Gado de Corte
(National Center for Research on Beef Cattle)
CNPGL              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Gado de Leite
(National Center for Research on Dairy Cattle)
CPNH               Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Hortaligas
(National Research Center for Research on Vegetables)
CNPMF              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Mandioca e Fruticultura
(National Center for Research on Cassava and Fruits)
CNPMS              Centro Naciona. de Pesquisa de Milho e Sorgo
(National Rese.rch Center for Maize and Sorghum)
CNPSD              Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Seringueira e DendO
(National Center for Research on Rubber and Oil Palm)



LIST OF EMBRAPA RESEARCH STATIONS/UNITS IN THE PROJECT  toont'd)
SNLCS              Servigo Nacional de Levantamento e Conserva9&o de Solos
(National Service for Soil Evaluation and Conservation
Studies)
SPSB               Servigo de Produ,Ao de Sementes Basicas
(Brazilian Service for the Production of lasic Seeds)
UAPNPBS            Unidade de Apoio ao Programa Nacional de Pesquisa de
Biologia do Solo
(Support Unit for the National Research Program on Soil
Biology)
UAPNPSA            Unidade de Apoio ao Programa Nacional de Pesquisa em
Sa6de Animal
(Support Unit for the National Research Program on
Animal Health)
UEPAE              Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual
(Unit fcr Research at the State Level;
UEPAT              Unidade de Execu;ao de Pesquisa de Ambito Territorial
(Unit of Research Execution at the Territorial Level)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2016-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE                      L................*                 ...
EVALU.TATION SUXOARY       i...       .*******t@*e* *.............    iL
PART I
BRIEF DESCRIPTION AND ANALYTICAL REVIEW.                               1
Project Identity.                                                 1
Background.                                                       1
Project Objectives and Description.                               2
Project Strategy.                                                 2
Project Area.                                                     3
Project Components.                                               3
Project Design and Organization.                                  4
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION..                                               5
Critical Variances..                                              5
PROJECT RESULTS..                                                      7
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY    ..
BANK PERFORMANCE    ..
BORROWER PERFORMANCE                      ..                           9
CONSULTANTS PERFORMANCE .........................................   10
PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS ...................................   10
MAIN LESSONS LEARNED      ...................................   11
PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA ..................................   11
LIST OF TABLES
1. Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan .13
2. Amortization Schedule .14
3. Amendments to the Loan Agreement .15



Table of Contents  (Continued)
Page No.
PART II
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AS VIEWED BY THE BORROWER
Introduction  ..............              .................................    16
Project  Design  ............              .................................    16
Proiect  Implementation  .....................................    17
Proiject  Evaluation  .........................................    19
Lessons  Learned by  the Borrower  ............................    20
LIST OF TABLES
1.   Number of Reseat-ch Projects  by National Program  ....                    ....    22
2.   Civil Works  Targets  and Actual Construction  ....                     ........    23
3.  Number of Participants  in Staff Training Program  .... ...    24
4.   Generation and Diffussion of Technology  ....                       ............    25
5.   Bibliography of Project  Impact Assessment  Studies  .... ..    26
6.   Incremental  Staff by Unit  and by Category  (1982-1987)                           28
PART III
PROJECT TABLES  ............                ......................................    29
1.   Related Bank Loans  .....................................    30
2.   Project  Timetable  ......................................    31
3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual  Disbursements  ....                      ......    31
4.   Prcject Results  ........................................    32
5.   Project Cost and Financing ..............................    33
6.   Status of Covenants  ....................................    34
7.   Use of Bank Resources  ..................................    35



PROJECT-COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
_LOAN 2016-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Agricultural Research Project, the Bank's second lending operation in
support of cgricultural research in Brazil. Loan 2016-BR of US$60.0
million was approved by the Board on July 16, 1981 and was closed, on
schedule, December 31, 1987. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement under the loan was made on June 15, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division, Country Department I, Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower
(Part II).
The Bank's contribution is based on an earlier report by the
Borrower entitled: "Relat6rio de Avaliaqao Final. II Projeto de Pesquisa
Agropecuaria", the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- il -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2016-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.       At the time of project preparation, in 1981, the objectives of the
Government and the Bank were, tot (a) support institutional development and
policy reforms in agriculture; (b) ensure adequate coordination of
policies, both within the agriculture sector and between agriculture and
the economy as a whole; and (c) maximize public savings and ensure the most
economic use of public expenditures (para. 1.02).
2.       Brazil's Third National Development Plan (1980-1985) assigned a
high priority to agricultural development, including measures aiming at
more efficient use of the country's agricultural potential. The Plan's
major policy objectives directly linked agricultural research to Government
objectives of stimulating agricultural production and raising rural
incomes, particularly among small-scale producers (para. 1.06). The
project was designed with these sets of objectives in mind and aimed at
improving research planning and programmiz.g at improving linkages between
research, extension, rural development institutions and agro-industry.
3.       The project, while not confined to a specific geographical area
within Brazil, supported research programs of particular relevance to the
Northeast, North and Centerwest region of the country (para. 1.09). The
major components weret (a) research development, including civil works at
31 locations; laboratory and farm equipment; and library and documentation
materials; (b) technical assistance (156 consultant years); postgraduate
training for 205 staff and short-term fellowships for a further 342 staff;
and (c) incremental operating costs (para 1.10).
Implementation Experience
4.       The project was essentially implemented as designed at appraisal.
InAovative concepts introduced under the Eirst Agricultural Research
project (commodity-based research programming; a regional approach to
research based on agro-ecologic- - aracteristics; and the development of
research support services related to basic seeds, soil biology, food
technology and agro-industry) were reinforced under the project.
Participation of EMBRAPA scientists in training programs offered by
international agricultural researct, centers (IARCs) and in international
variety testing prcgrams by the CGIAR system increased substantially
(paras. 1.11-1.12).



- iii -
5.       The aspect which contributed most to successful project
implementation was the political and administrative strength provided by
EHBRAPA's clear mandate "to execute, coordinate and promote agricultural
research on a national basis.   Although Government-wide restrictions on
hiring incremental permanent staff did, on occasions, prevent EMBRAPA from
reaching its staffing targets, effective use of consultants and research
assistants to some extent ameliorated the measure's negative impact
(paras. 1.17 and 1.18).
Results
6.       Fellowship (post-graduate) and short-course training exceeded
appraisal estimates by two and one-half and five times, respectively, in
terms of number of staff trained. The justification for this variance was
the need for more highly-trained research staff in support of development
programs in the North, Northeast and Centerwest in the case of post-
graduate training, and the greater emphasis placed or. on-farm field trial
work, in the case of short courses (para. 1.18 (i)). Over 23,000 research
projects involving more than forty commodities and subject matter areas
were carried out between 1982 and 1987 (Part II, Table 1). The number of
research centers benefitting from civil works construction was smaller
(twenty-five as compared to thirty-one) but the overall area constructed
exceeded the original estimates by more than k.wo times. However, as a
result of the decision to give priority to the construction of field-level
infrastructure as opposed to offices and laboratories, costs of civil works
construction amounted to only two-thirds of appraisal estimates
(para. 1.18 (i) and Part II, Table 2).
7.       The Borrower conducted several Consultants's studies which
demonstrate the developmental impact of the generation, diffusion and
adoption of new technology under the project (para. 2.17 and Table 3 of
Part II).
Sustainability
8.       EMBRAPA, which benefitted from two Bank loans for agricultural
research, is widely recognized as one of the better research institutions
in the developing world. A thi.d loan, scheduled for Board presentation in
October 1989, will provide EMBRAPA with the resources needed to meet its
short- and medium-term requirements for specialized equipment, staff
training and technology dissemination. The institution's requirements for
foreign exchange are likely to continue for the next decade, albeit at
lower levels than in the past (para. 1.24).
Findings
9.       The main lessons learned from the project (para. 1.35) are:
- the advisability of maintaining flexibility in the selection of
sub-projects (research programs) to accommodate shifting
priorities within the original development concepts and objectives
of the project;



- iv -
- while it is recognized that standard ERR calculations do not allow
for adequately analyzing the benefits of agricultural research,
there is a need to design effective and standardized evaluation
guidelines in collaboration with the borrower; such evaluation
methodology should provide the needed information for planning and
investment decisions for future research;
- more attention should be paid to the essential farmer-
extensionist-research station linkage, particularly at an early
stage in the project, to allow time for improvements in technology
transfer and to allow for a stronger farmer/extensionist input
into research planning;
- the linkages between agricultural research and other sector
investments and policies (i.e., irrigation, rural development,
land management, agricultural pricing policy, agricultural
extension, etc.), need more consideration in establishing long-
range research priorities.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2016-BR)
PART I
BRIEF DESCRIPTION AND ANALYTICAL REVIEW
1.01     Project Identity
Name        -   Second AgriculturiLl Research Project
Loan No.    -   Loan 2016-BR
RVP Unit    -   Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country     -   Brazil
Sector      -   Agriculture
Sub-Sector  -   Research
1.02     Background.  The objectives of the Government and the Bank at the
time of project preparation (FY80181) were tot (a) support the
institutional development and policy reforms for the sector; (b) establish
adequate coordination of policies within the agricultural sector and
between agriculture and the economy as a whole; and (c; maximize public
savings and ensure the most economic use of public expenditures. The
proposed project, in particular, was designed to develop procedures and
mechanisms to improve research planning and programming, and also to
improve linkages between research, extension, rural development
institutions, and agro-industry. Another lending objective was to ease
foreign exchange constraints, which had become more critical since the
increase in petroleum prices in 1974, by supporting projects designed to
increase Brazil's export capacity and. where economical, to substitute
imports by domestic production, particularly in the area of basic food
products.
1.03     Agriculture was then, and continues to be, an important sector in
the Brazilian economy, employing about 252 of the economically active
population and contributing about 102 to total GDP and about 402 to total
export earnings. Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee and
orange juice, the largest producer of sugar cane, and the second largest
exporter of soybeans. Other major agricultural exports include meat and
fish products, cotton, corn, peanuts, cocoa, castor oil, and sisal. Brazil
is largely self-sufficient in basic food products, except wheat. From
1970-79, the average annual agricultural growth rate was about 52, and
overall, agriculture was the country's primary earner of foreign exchange,
while at the same time providing raw materials, foodstuffs, and excess
labor to the rest of the economy.



-2-
1.04     While the aggregate agricultural performance had been
satisfactory, there were large variations over time in the relative
performances of the major agricultural product groups and among the main
regions. Especially the North. Northeast. and Center-West continued to
employ traditional agricultural practices and technologies. Furthermore.
output gains continued to derive mainly from the expansion of land area
rather than from increased yields. While not surprising for a country
enjoving Brazil's vast land resources, this fact was taking on increasing
importance as infrastructure and transport costs rose along the extensive
agricultural frontier. At the same time, ecological and environmental
concerns were also increasing.
1.05     Constraints to increased agricultural production, particularly for
small farmers, included: limited access to institutional credit, extension
services, and improved agricultural inputs: inadequate support services and
infrastructure for marketing, storage and transport; and an erratic price
policy. The resulting wide fluxtuations in producer prices had a direct
bearing on returns to agriculture, and also were a risk factor affecting
the long-range planning for agricultural research.
1.06     Brazil's  hird National Development Plan (PND III, 1980-85),
assigned a high priority to agricultural development, including to measures
aimed at a more efficient exploitation of the country's agricultural
potential. The Plan's major policy objectives included: (a) increase of
basic staple and export production, especially by small and medium
producers; (b) improvement of production, storage, transport and marketing
systems; (c) expansion of agricultural research and extension activities,
and the use of modern inputs and appropriate technology;
(d) decentralization of agricultural policy execution, by increasing the
participation of the private sector and state and local governments; and
(e) increased production of energy substitutes. Agricultural re *arch was
thus directly linked to Government objectives aimed at stimulating
agricultural production and raising rural incomes, particularly among small
producers. The ank assisted the Government in these efforts through
projects aimed at: (a) the reorganization of the federal extension system
to service a broader segment of the agricultural population; (b) the
support of special programs such as POLONORDESTE in the nartheast and
POLONOROESTE in the northwest that focus on poorer regions; and (c) the
expansion and suitable pricing of agricultural credit.
1.07     Project Obiectives and Description.  The primary objective of the
project was to further increase the capacity and efficiency of Brazil's
agricultural research system. The project was designed to strengthen
mechanisms to ensure that research condacted was appropriate to the
problems of the producers and that research findings were disseminated
promptly. The project complemented existing research programs and aimed at
increased efficiency in the utilization of research facilities established
under the first project. Accordingly, it indirectly strengthened efforts
towards agricultural and rural development by increasing the stock of
appropriate new technologies and by facilitating their dissemination to
small, rural producers through the extension service.
1.08     Project Strategy.  The strategy to achieve the project objectives
comprised the following elements within the Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa



-3-
Agropecuaria (EHBRAPA), the borrower and executing agency:
(a)  expanded support for farming systems research conducted at three
regional research stations (CPAs);l
(b)  expanded support for research on rice, beans and rubber--at two
commodity research centers:
(c)  continued support for research on vegetables, fruit, coconuts, oil
palm. babacu and wood products and to assist the certified seed
service;
(d)  support for new, high priority, national programs for animal
health, bioenergy, food t3chnology and agricultural engineering at
selected research support units;
(e)  support for strengthening procedures and mechanisms to help
improve research planning and programming, and research linkages
with extension;
(f) expanded support for EHBRAPA's information and documentation
system; and
(g)  support for new monitoring and evaluation systems.
1.09     Project Area.  The project was not confined to a specific
geographical area within Brazil. Nonetheless, most of the research
programs supported under the project had particular relevance to the
problems of the less well developed Northeast, North and Center-West and it
was expected that some 662 of project costs would be invested in these
three priority regions.
1.10     Project Components.  The project, as appraised, had the following
components and baseline cost:
(a) research development, including:
(i) civil works at 31 major locations (eight of which were not
included in the first project), comprising mainly ancillary
buildings such as greenhouses, storage buildings and some
staff housing in more remote areas; and a research farm,
including an irrigated seed production unit (US$24.5
million);
(ii) equipment, comprising mainly scientific instruments,
laboratory equipment, vehicles, farm and laboratory
equipment and office furniture (US$17.0 million);
(iii) library and documentation services comprising mainly
journals, periodicals and reference books, including also
some microfilm equipment (US$8.7 million);
11 Acronyms used throughout this report to designate the various
agricultural research centers/units are detailed in the "List of
EMBRAPA Research Stations" on pages ii and iii of the report.



-4-
(b) technical assistance and training, comprising about 156 man-years
of consultant services, postgraduate degree training for 205
staff, and short-term fellowships for a further 342 staff (US$33.4
million);
(c) incremental operating costs for a five-year period, comprising
salaries and associated costs of some 224 incremental scientists
and about 1,100 support staff, in addition to the incremental
operating costs for vehicles, equipment and facilities included in
the project (US$31.0 million).
The project was to be implemented over a five-year period beginning in
1981, except for technical assistance and training, which were expected to
require six years, i.e., until 1987.
1.11     Project Design and Organization.  The definition of the project
concept and design was greatly facilitated by the institutional strength of
EMBPAPA: the experience gained during preparation and execution of the
First Agricultural Research Project (Loan 1249-BR); the frequent contacts
with staff of International Research Centers (IARCs) under the CGIAR and
the services f an international agricultural research consulting firm
(International Agricultural Development Service, LADS) contracted to
provide guidance during the preparation of the second project. EMBRAPA
could also effectively base its project proposals on clear national
objectives for the sector (PND III, 1980-85, para. 1.06). Accordingly, the
conceptual foundation for the project was clearly understood and accepted
by the relevant government agencies, SEPLAN and EMBRAPA, and also the Bank.
1.12     Major innovative concepts introduced under the first Agricultural
Research project, i.e. (a) a "commodity' as opposed to a "disciplinary'
approach to research programming; (b) a "regional" approach to
agroecological research; and (c) the development of 'service' research
centers as support units to the system, i.e., seed production, soil survey,
soil biology, mechanization, and food technology were reinforced under the
present project and several of these support programs were expanded or
strengthened (basic seeds, soil biology, food technology and agro-
industry). The participation of EMBRAPA scientists in IARC training
programs and international variety teating trials (particularly with CIAT,
CIMMYT, and CIP), though not entirely new, reached new levels of
cooperation within the IARC system. Several specific contractual
arrangements and cooperative agreements were successfully included during
project implementation. In general, the project was designed to provide
financial support for long-range research programming, which is essential
for achieving significant results in the agricultural research (Part II,
para. 2.19-vi).
1.13     The scope and scale of the project proved to be appropriate for
achieving the objectives set out at appraisal. However, constraints
imposed by the Government on new recruitment for permanent staff, and
applicable to all public sector agencies during the 1981-87 did from time
to time affect the smooth operation of some project components (para.
1.18). While the required overall staffing targets were reached, the



-5-
number of researchers employed was less than expected. Accordingly,
research professionals did not fully benefit from: (a) available research
facilities: (b) consultant counterparts; and (c) training opportunities.
1.14     Preparation of the project by EMBRAPA was satisfactory for the
reasons given at para. 1.11, i.e., the availability of experienced, capable
staff, administrative stability, and technical assistance as and when
needed, to produce a document suitable for Bank review and appraisal.
1.15     The timing of the proiject was dictated by the closing date for the
previous project (Loan 1249-BR). The latter had a.seven-year project
implementation period commencing in 1976 and a loan closing date of
December 1982; the present project became effective in December 1981.
1.16     The overall mandate of EMBRAPA "to execute, coordinate and promote
agricultural research on a national basis" ensured that the roles and
responsibilities of the institutions involved were clearly defined and
understood. Moreover, the participation cf non-federal agencies (state,
university and private institutions) was the subject of clearly defined
contractual agreements. As a result, project implementation was
facilitated by a clear understanding about the respective responsibilities
of the participating agencies.
1.17     In retrospect, the aspect of project design and organization which
contributed most to the success of the project was the political and
administrative strength provided by EMBRAPA's clear mandate. And even
though the hiring restrictions on permanent incremental staff did, on
occasion, frustrate EMBRAPA's best efforts to achieve its staffing targets
in a timely fashion, its negative impact was to some extent ameliorated by
effective use of consultants (para. 1.29).
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.18     Critical Variances.  Based on the data available the following
variances between planned and actual project performance are noted:
(i)  Physical variance relates mainly to the items listed in the "Key
Indicators" from the various Supervision Report3, as summarized
in Part 3, Table 4. For individual research programs major
variance occurred in the number of experiments in progress at the
stations for the food technology (CTAA) and for the bioenergy
programs, both of which registered a ten-fold increase. For the
humid tropics (CPATU), sub-projects exceeded appraisal estimates
four-fold, as was the case for the forestry program. On the
other side, two programs (Semi-Arid Tropics-CPATSA) and that for
oil-palm 'CNPSD) registered only about 75Z of expectations. All
others either met or exceeded expectations at appraisal.
Indicators for the number of experiments carried out by research
support services reflect the difficulty for these research units
in the timely hiring of incremental staff and the contracting out
of specific research projects (5? completion). This latter
category of contracted research was suggested at appraisal as a
means of encouraging greater participation by national
(Brazilian) consultancy services, particularly at the academic



-6-
and private institutional level, where such services would
provide a useful input particularly in the areas of monitoring
and evaluation of applied research findings. As noted above,
such participation as much less than originally estimated.
Variances exist between the actual number of incremental staff
and appraisal targets. During appraisal, a need for a total of
1,303 incremental staff, was foreseen consisting of 224
researchers, 838 research support and 241 administrative staff
for eighteen selected research programs and support units. While
supervision reports and lett: rs to Government consistently
referred to the Government-wide Ereeze on hiring additional
staff, the Government completion report suggests levels of
incremental staff above the original estimates (Part II, Table
6), namely a total of 1,327 incremental staff, consisting of 142
researchers, 1,066 research support, and 119 administrative
staff, for the units funded under the project. This total does
not include the incremental staff that may have been recruited
for the bioenergy programs and for project evaluation for which a
total incremental staff of 126 (26 researchers, 67 research
support staff, and 33 administrative staff) was foreseen at
appraisal. Therefore, while the total number of incremental
research and administrative staff is well below the appraisal
targets, the number of additional support staff hired under the
project is significantly above the appraisal figure. Although
part of this discrepancy can be explained by using different
definitions for incremental project staff, it is clear that the
hiring freeze during much of the project 'fe did affect the
project's research programs. However, t. liberal use of
research assistants did alleviate some of the problems.
Fellowship (post-graduate) and short course training components
either met or sharply exceeded appraisal estimates for the number
of staff trained. In the case of fellowships, both abroad and in
Brazil, the 2002 increase in funding allowed a total achievement
of 2592 in the number of trained staff. In requesting the
allocation of additional funds to this category (Loan Agreement
Amendment dated July 11, 1984), EMBRAPA (2/29/84) cited the
Government need for more highly trained researcih staff to
facilitate development programs in the north, northeast and
center-west and the decision to train senior scientists (Ph.D.
level) at universities abroad to hasten this technology transfer.
In addition, in recognition of the importance of field-trial work
at the farm level, the numuer of short courses was increased from
320 participants to 1,600 thereby permitting greater interchange
among researchers, extension staff and farmers. Whereas the
volume of civil works exceeded appraisal estimates by 100
percent, civil works costs were only 67Z of appraisal estimate.
The latter was due to: (a) major emphasis on experiment station
and field level service-type buildings, as opposed to
laboratories and offices; and (b) lower-than-expected prices.
The major changes in the civil works program were: (a) the
decision against building staff housing at CNPMF, Cruz das Almas,
BA; (b) the construction of essential facilities at Planaltina,
DF, the important research center for development of the Campo



.7-
Cerrado (Center-West) region; and (c) the decision in 1986/87, to
agree to EMBRAPA's request to finance 30Z of the first two stages
of a headquarters building for EMBRAPA administrative services on
the outskirts of Brasilia. This change was warranted in view of:
(i) high rental costs for space in Brasilia; and (ii) growing
inadequacy and inefficiency of EMBRAPA's central facilities.
(ii) Financial variations were significant in only two aspects.
Technical assistance disbursemensts were much lower than estimated
for "contract research' services and much higher for individual
consultant contracts. Cost increases in the equipment category
were largely due to cost overruns for imported laboratory
equipment. At appraisal such purchases were estimated to take
place during the first two years of project appraisal. However,
due to import restrictions, these were delayed until project
years five and six with corresponding price increases. In some
cases the amount of office, laboratory and farm equipment
required was underestimated at appraisal, particularly as one
research program and corresponding research facility was added
for Plant Protection experiments (Part I, Table 1).
1.19     Most of the variances noted above constituted changes in project
design and scope which were agreed upon during implementation (Part I.
Table 3). Responsiveness on the part of the Bank to the changing financial
and planning needs of the Borrower in so far as these impinged on the
original implementation plan, did much to ensure the overall success of the
project.
1.20     Major risks identified at appraisal as being associated with the
project were: (a) impact of research findings; (b) inadequacy of linkages
between research and extension; (c) government commitment to incremental
staffing needs; (d) possible insufficiencies in the area of research
planning, administration and coordination; and (e) changes in government
priorities and policies in response to changing national needs. While all
of these factors did present themselves during project implementation. they
did not substantially affect the implementation or the impact of the
project.
1.21     Specific corrective action taken by the Bank and the Borrower
during implementation are reflected in the seven amendments to the Loan
Agreement as listed in Part I, Table 3.
PROJECT RESULTS
1.22     Research, particularly biological research, is a long-range
process, requiring 10-15 years or more for obtaining results.
Notwit-^standing this difficulty to quantify the impact of the project,
EMERAEA, in its Project Completion Report, summarized in Part II, indicates
several areas of notable progress. Most of these relate to work already
initiated under the Agricultural Research I Project (Loan 1249-BR) and
continued under the project under review.



-8-
1.23     As for other research and extension projects, no Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) calculations were made at appraisal.2 However, the project
has had, and is expected to continue to have, a significant impact on:
a)  sectoral growth, through production increases, by generating and
disseminating new, effective production technology;
b)  human resource development, deriving from the project's extensive
degree (post-graduate) training program for research staff:
c)  physical and technological environment, by the generation of
technologies that: ti) increase yields and thus reduce need to
open up new lands, (ii) increase use of biological pest and
disease control, and (iii) ensure a more judicious and rational
use of pesticides and fertilizers;
d)  the social environment, by -mitting small-scale producers to
increase their incomes throu6n improved production techniques; and
e)  the national extension service and the national university system,
through technology transfer and training.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.24     Provided EMBRAPA's current level of funding is at least maintained
(in real terms) the progress initiated under the project could be expected
to continue. EMBRAPA's requirements for foreign exchange are likely to
continue for the next decade, albeit at lower levels. A Third Agricultural
Research Project, appraised by the Bank during April 1989, and scheduled
for Board presentation by October 1989 will provide EMBRAPA with the
resources to meet essential requirements for import of specialized
equipment, staff training, and technology transfer. The investments made
(civil works, experiment station devplopment and hardware) under the
project would, satisfy the infrastru,-zure needs of the public research
system for the next 15 to 25 years. The Borrower/executing agency
tEMBRAPA) has correctly identified the availability of adequate financial
and political support for the Brazilian Cooperative Agricultural Research
System (SCPA) as a major risk factor to sustain its effectiveness
(para. 2.19, vi).
BANK PERFORMANCE
1.25     The main strengths of Bank performance were:  (a) ability to
assist the Borrower when local counterpart funding for project
implementation was severely constrained (para. 1.18); (b) consistency oi
the supervision effort, as reflected in continuity of the assigned staff
(until 1987) and in the regularity, at six-month intervals, of the
supervision missions; and (c) the Bank's willingness to enter into
mutually-agreed amendments to the loan documents to accommodate vari-nces
2/ As indicated at Part II, para. 2.16, the Borrower did perform some
partial ERR calculations as part of its monitoring and evaluation
process.



-9-
between estimated and actual expenditures, in order to reflect changing
government priorities and to account for rate of exchange fluctuations in
Cruzeiro(Cruzado denominated expenditures (para. 1.18).
1.26     The perceived weaknesses in the Bank's performance included:
(a) failure to seek out a solution to the manpower (hiring) constraint;
(b) inability to reduce delays in obtaining necessary import licenses for
project-related goods and equipment; (c) limited attention to the
monitoring and evaluation of the project, particularly with a view to
enhancing both EMBRAPA's, and he Bank's experience in this area.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.27     EMBRAPA was both the Borrower and the executing agency for the
project. Its main strengths continued to be the administrative efficiency
and technical capacity. Changes in the eAecutive leadership, particularly
during the June 1985 to March 1986 period, did adversely affect the earlier
dynamic f.   of project operations.  Other difficulties which occasionally
presented tnemselves during project implementation resulted from federal
and state measures to cope with the severe fiscal problems faced by the
Borrower during the entire 1981-88 period.
1.28     Performance during the project preparation period was excellent
overall and very responsive to the information requirements of the Bank for
the evaluation of the project proposals (para. 1.11). Project managemeut,
:th the possible exception of the politically induced cL.anges mentioned at
para. 1.27 above, was uniformly good.
1.29     In general, staff deployment was as good as could be expected,
given the constraints mentioned before and considering the requirements of
the advanced and short course staff training program which at times meant
that key staff were unavailable at crucial stages of the life of the
project. The latter was a more acute problem during the first project and
the maturity and more advanced stage of development of EMBRAPA in general
did mitigate this problem to some degree. As in the first project, use was
also made of long-term consultants to fill certain staff positions.
However, this does not provide effective and efficient use of such
technical assistance, as the in-service training aspect of a consultancy is
thereby largely lost. In general, however, EMBRAPA made good use of
consultancy services for this project. This was .hiefly due to lessons
learned from the first project which included: (a) adequate selection
procedures- (b) specificity of contract; (c) quality of final consultants'
report; and (d) follow-up action by the (research) unit which originally
requested and directly benefitted from the consultancy based on the
consultants' final report and recommendations. Improvements in all of
these areas were evident during the implementation of this second-phase
project.
1.30     Throughout project implementation, EMBRAPA's accounts were duly
audited and the results reported to the Bank. For 1982 and 1983 this was
done by the Secretaria Central de Controle Interno of the Finance Ministry
(SECIN), jointly with the accounts for the previous (Loan 1249-BR) loan.



- 10 _
Thereafter, the audit was done by the Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional (STN).
The auditors consistently expressed a favorable opinion, with occasional
qualifications suggesting minor improvements in accounting procedures.
1.31     During project preparation and implementation the Borroder was
building upon experiences from the first project. Improvements in project
management during the second phase tended to represent refinements rather
than major new approaches. Only in the area of project monitoring and
evaluation were new steps taken to solve difficulties encountered. In
relation to evaluation of research results, the Bank should work more
closely with its Borrowers in developing a uniform evaluation system which
could nave worldwide aLceptance. This would also tend to strengthen
cooperation and coordination between the International Agricultural
Research Centers (IARCs) system and National Agricultural Research Centers
(NARCs) as noted at para. 1.12. In EMERAPA's Final Project Evaluation
Report, reference is also made to the lessons learned as viewed by the
Borrower, and h'lese are noted in Part II, paras. 2.18 and 2.19. Some of
these are of particular interest because they refer specifically to the
application of research findings in the three priority regions of the
project.
CONSULTANTS PERFORMANCE
1.32     Consultants, covering some 75 technical fields of expertise, had
the greatest direct impact on the outcome of the research programs. With
some exceptions, mainly attributable to poor selection, language
difficulties, unclear terms of reference, or either poor or lacking
co.nterpart (research) contacts at the receiving research station, the
consultant services provided were satisfactory. Contractors and suppliers
also performed well, including those offering services under the contract-
research component. Although few in number, the contribution of the latter
in the areas of genetic engineering and socio-economic evaluation was
particularly significant. In general, their involvement had a synergistic
effect when combined with EMBRAPA's own irvolvement and in each case
provided an impact much in excess of the mere contract value. Such
involvement frequently resulted in acquiring technology from abroad. either
directly or in the form of staff training, with indirect technology
transfer.
PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
1.33     The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower, and their
joint performance have generally been good. Any substantive issues
regarding either project design or implementation were dealt with during
tne periodic supervision missions. The uolutions to be taken and/or follow
up actions required were then recorded in the Minutes of Understanding
which were discussed with the project coordinating team and then confirmed
with EMBRAPA's President, or a Director acting on his behalf. The
principal lesson learned from this is that consistency in project
supervision and prompt dispatch of "follow-up" correspondence is essential
to this process. The borrower should also be encouraged to respond to
these "follow-up" letters.



- 11 -
1.34     Similarly, the Bank's relationship to other relevant parties,
including other federal Government age.acies, appears to have been good. It
comprised the mutual agreement to the seven amendments to the loan
documents (Part I, Table 3) and an official visit to the Planning
Secretariat (SEPLAN/SUBIN) at the end of each supervision mission. There
were no other directly-participating institutions or co-financing agencies
in this case. The Bank, at the request of EMBRAPA, did on occasion discuss
project-related procedures with the consulting firms selected. Similarly,
the Bank frequently discussed project related aspects of specific cro
research programs with four of the collaborating IARCs (CIAT, CIMKYT, CIP,
ICRISAT). The advantages of close collaboration between the IARCs and the
NARCs are already widely recognized and accepted.
MAIN LESSONS LEARNED
1.35     The main lessons learned from this project are:
a)  the advisability of maintaining fiexibility in the selection of
sub-projects (research programs) to accommodate shifting
priorities within the original development concepts and objectives
of the project;
b) while it is recognized that standard ERR calculations do not allow
for adequately measuring and evaluating the benefits from
agricultural research, there is a need to design effective and
standardized evaluation guidelines in collaboration with the
borrower; such evaluation methodology should provide the needed
information for the purpose of planning and making investment
decisions for future research programming;
c)  more attention should be paid to the essential farmer-
extensionist-research station linkage, particularly at an early
stage in the project, to allow time for improvements in technology
transfer and to permit a farmer/extensionist input into the
reseach planning process;
d)  the linkages between agricultural research and other sector
investments and policies (i.e., irrigation, rural development.
land management, agricultural pricing policy, agricultural
extension, etc.), should be considered when long-range research
priorities are being established; and
e)  provided the project is well designed to achieve its objectives,
it is advisable to keep special legal conditions to a minimum. It
is particularly desirable to assess, in advance, whether special
legal commitments can and will be implemented and to determine
remedies which realistically can, and should be taken by the Bank
in case this does not occur.
PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
1.36     Given that EMBRAPA was both the Borrower and executing agency.
there was no need for a Project Agreement. As was the case for the first



- 12 -
project. Special Conditions were kept to a minimum. Apart from the usual
requirements with respect to reporting procedures and Government
guarantees, the loan agreement contained only four special conditions.
These covered (a) a mid-term review; (b) the need for a specialized civil
works coordinating unit; (c) provisions for a specialized advisory agency
to administer the large training program; and (d) arrangements for an
agency to identify and contract suitable research consultants. All these
conditions were met. There was, however, 6 tendency for a one- to two-
motith delay in presenting the annual audits to the Bank.
1.37     The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR Report No. 3357a-BR) by itself
cannot be considered to be an adequate vehicle for implementation of a
project covering 17 complex regional, conmodity, state -nd research service
agencies and programs. However, edited versions of the q Staff Working
Papers were translated and used by the Borrower. Together, these documents
provided useful background material for Bank supervision missions visiting
specific research program facilities in the field, and for the review of
the annual research programs under the project.
1.38     Generally speaking, the information required for preparing the PCR
was readily available, although not always in the format requested by the
new PCR Guidelines because the data information system established for the
project at its inception was not tailored to meet the requirements of the
November 4, 1988 PCR Guidelines.



PART!I
-13-                                     Talble 1
SECO; AGQ CU6   LE9jCH PROJECT
PROIrCY COILETO  ,RRpCR
lilthdrawal °! tho Proced ot th- Loan
AT LAST REVISION      ACTUAL
AT LOAN SIGNING    (Anwdeent of      DISRSEMENT
CATEGORY              (7/6/81)          8/21/86)      (at 12/81/83)
1. Consulting Services        12,C00,00        17,10,6O           1',3887,180
2. Resqrch Service             8,0,0Q0           1,8B,OW          1,lbg,?B1
8. Fel I owahipe               5,WW,WO          15,400,006       16,074,167
4. ClviI Works                 6,000e000         e,0 600          8.ue,0 e
S. Equl_pet, OffIce,          20,500,eoo       17,76,8           17,865,875
Form, Laboratory
2 Vehicles
6. Initial ODeosit             8,WO,WO            -                   2,614
to Special Account
7. Unal located                 8,00000
8. Caneol l                      -                -                     468 1/
TOTALS                                      68,600,we        66oeo,oo
1/ A refund gen ited by a unuaed portion of a Letter of Credit.
Sources Accounting Divlsion/Control lore
November 80, 1986.



PART I
-14 -                                        -Tibl- 2
SECCND ACRSLTAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PROJffT COMPLETION REPORT
Amort.L tlon Schodule as of Auaust 26. lm
(Aaounte in US )
FIRST MATURITY:  JAN. 15, 1965     ORIGINAL LOAN AMOUNTs          0,66,o.66
LAST MATURITY:   JUL. 15, 1996    CUMULATIVE CINCELLATIONSs              468.01
MATURM           ORIGINAL        CANCELLATIONS                     REVISED
DATE            MATURITY         TRANSFERS      PREPAYVEhTS       MATURITY
JAN. 15, 1925    2,5SW,OW.00            -               -          2. 06,066.00
JUL. 1s, 1085    2,566,666.66           -               -           2,590,66.66
JAN. 15, 1936     2,600,06.66           -               -           2,6W,000.00
JUL. 1s, 198.    2,5W,OO6.W6            -               -           2,5600,0W.00
JAN. 16, 1980     2,600,000.00          -               -           2,566,006.60
JUL. 15, 1067    2,566,66.66            -               -           2,56w,666.90
JAN. 16, 1908     2,696,669.66          -               -           2,560,06.010
JUL. 15, 1089     2,00,006.60           -               -          2,6006,96.66
JAN. 15, 109M     2,600,0W.00           483.01 l/                  2,400,536.00
JUL. 16, 1989    2,600,00.00            -               -          2,666,000.00
JAN. 16, 1990    2,60,9600.00           -               -          2,560,010.0
JUL. 1s, 100     2,56,ao1.00           -               -          2,560,66.W
JAN. 15, 1031    2,500,600.90           -               -           2.5W0,96.66
JUL. 15, 1991    2,600,96.00            -               -          2,606,mo.de
JAN. 15, 1992    2,600,0010.6           -               -          2,506,66.09
JUL. 15, 1m      2,590,000.00           -               -          2,506,06.66
JAN. 15, 1998    2,5so,a6o.w-                           -          2,560,06.06
JUL. 15, 1093    2,5600,00.00           -               -          2,56,06006.6
JAN. 11, 1994    2,500,090.66           -               -          2,600,966.90
JUL. 15, 1994    2,500,000.00           -               -          2,5600,600.9
JAN. 15, 1995    2,660,000.00           -               -          2,566,666.96
JUL. 15, 1995    2,509,006.00           -               -          2,6W,006.00
JAN. 15, 1990     2,600,66.00           -               -          2,500,666.06
JUL. 15, 1900    2,56,66.w0             -               -          2,00,60w1.6a
TOTALS        69o,96,is.80           463.01           6.6       69,999,536.99
inUUUUS                           -- -----
1/ A refund pgoreted by an unused portion of a Letter of Credit.
SOURCE: Accounting Diviilon/Controllern
August 25, 1983.



-5 -                             PART I
Table 3
BRAZIL
SF%OND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2016-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
, .-
Serial
No.      Date                    Purpose of the Amendment
1    April 26, 1982    Reword Special Account's clause to comply with
other loans approved in FY81.
2    October 6, 1982   Include a new research pre-ram *Plant Protection
Research' in the project description (Schedule
2).
3    June 24, 1983     To reflect that henceforth the local cost
financing of local (Brazilian) consultant
services would equal that for foreign
expenditures in this category, i.e., increased
from 80? to 1001 financing under the Loan.
4    December 2. 1983  Under the Special Action Program (SAP) the Bank
participation in project financing would,
effective October 1, 1983 and until March 31,
1985, be increased from 352 to 67.5Z of total
project costs (Schedule 1 revised accordingly).
5    July 11, 1984     Reallocation of Loan Proceeds among Categories
(Schedule 1). Substantial changes were made to
accommodate increased expenditures for studies
(fellowships) and the expanded use of consultant
services.
6   August 21, 1985   Reallocation of Loan Proceeds among Categories
and elimination of the Special Account Category
as for item 5 above and the Special Account
(Category 6).
7    January 14, 1986  The disbursement percentages for expenditures
under of the Special Action Program - SAP (Item
4) to be extended indefinitely.
Source: Bank Files
January 1989



^ 16 -
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2016-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part II
Introduction
2.01     In compliance with the Loan Agreement, Article III, Section 3.04,
the Borrower/Executing Agency (EMBRAPA) in June 1988, submitted to the Bank
its final project evaluation report.1 The following brief synopsis of this
report was provided by EMBRAPA as Part II of the PCR in accordance with the
new Guidelines.
PROJECT DESIGN
2.02     During project preparation in 1979-80, a historical review was
carried out of developments and trends within the agriculture sector during
the previous two decades. The results of the exercise led to the adoption
of a policy that would aim to increase output through yield increases and
the development of more efficient production technologies. Such a policy
would seek to maintain adequate sectoral growth without having to turn to a
massive expansion of the agricultural frontier with its heavy outlays for
infrastructure and its related socio-economic and environmental problems.
For this reason the country was prepared to invest decisively in
agricultural research in order to develop new, more efficient and effective
production techniques, particularly for the basic food crops.
2.03     Within this general plan, emphasis was given to the guidelines
provided by Brazil's National Development Plan (PND 1982-86); the
Agricultural Policy Initiatives, and Regional Development programs of the
Federal Government. As part of this process, the possible effect of
research on the b&sic food-basket items (i.e., maize, rice, beans and
cassava) was also considered, as were the socio-economic needs of the rural
and urban populations at the lower income levels in each region. Examples
of research program responses to development plans to cover both domestic
and export demand are: (a) increased yields of wheat to ameliorate the
effects of lower subsidies; and (b) increases in sugar-cane, soybean and
poultry production.
/ "Relat6rio de Avaliagao Final. II Projeto de Pesquisa Agropecuiria'
(Vols. I and II). EMBRAPA, Brasilia, June 1988.



_ 17 -
2.04     Finally, it became necessary to bring the administrative structure
of agricultural research in line with national agricultural research policy
and national, regional and state requirements. And it was and continues to
be EMBRAPA's mandate to (a) promote. stimulate, coordinate and execute
research designed to produce new technologies for agricultural development
and agro-industrial advancement on a national level; (b) provide technical
assistance to the appropriate agencies of the federal government; and
(c) to coordinate science and technology directives in the agricultural
sector.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.05     Research Programs.  The project comprised some 20 research
programs of which 17 were of an applied crovilivestock, commodity-oriented
nature and three were in the area of research support services, i.e.. basic
seed production, information and documentation and socio-economic
evaluation of research results and their application at the field level.
The number of research projects increased annually during the project
period, from 3,233 in 1982 tC 4.123 in 1987 (Part II. Table 1).
2.06     Civil Works.  Thie number of research centers benefitting from
civil works construction was smaller (25, as compared to 31 at appraisal)
but the overall area constructed (80,420 m2) exceeded the original
estimates. Details are in Part II. Table 2.
2.07     Incremental Research Staff.  It was estimated at appraisal that
224 additional technical staff and 1,079 support staff would be required
for the project. However, total incremental staff amounted to 2,197
employees, of whom 315 belonged to the category of technical and scientific
staff, 1.680 .J the category of research support staff, and 202 belonged to
the category of administrative staff (Part II, Table 6).
2.08     Staff Training.  As in the case of the 4revious project
(Agricultural Research I, Loan 1249-BR), the training program made a major
contribution to the overall success of the project and to the continued
development and improvement of the technical capacity of EMBRAPA's research
staff. In the area of advanced degree training (Ph.D. and M.Sc.) the
achievement was 259Z of the original estimate (531 graduates compared to
205 estimated at appraisal). For short-term courses (STC), both in Brazil
and abroad, there was a very marked increase, i.e., 1,760 trainees as
compared to 340 estimated at appraisal, a more than a five-fold increase.
This incree.se was largely attributable to the increased number of quality
courses offered in Brazil, and within the collaborative research system
(SCPA) of EMBRAPA and participating network agencies/institutions. With
respect to short courses provided abroad, the contribution of the
International Agricultural Research Centers (IARCs) in the hemisphere, i.e.
CIAT, CIMMYT, and CIP, was most noteworthy. Details of the number of
trainees by research center/program and comparative analysis of the
accomplishment relative to the originals estimates are in Part II,
Table 3.
2.09     Consultant Services.  These were utilized in two ways:  (i) to
promote the exchange of research knowledge and experience between similar
agro-ecological regions, internationally, and (ii) to promote technology



- 18 _
transfer and benefit from state-of-the-art advancements in other countries
in diverse scientific areas of interest to EMBRAPA and to the national
research program. PRONAPA. In addition, this form of technology transfer
has had a direct training value through the day-to-day contacts between
consultants and EMBRAPA's technical staff. Care was taken to ensure that
such contacts were as broad as possible, including seminars and publication
of the reports prepared by the consultants. The consultants made
significant contributions in the following areas (i) bio-technology,
(ii) agro-industry, (iii) basic seed-production. (iv) regional crop
adaptation and development, and (v) agricultural impact on the envircnment.
2.10     The Interamerican Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture (IICA)
was chosen as the agency responsible for contracting and administering the
consultancy component. Actual selection of the consultants in each case
was done by (a) the particular research unit requesting the specialized
services; and (b) the Technical Scientific Department of EMBRAPA (DTC), the
Planning Secretariat (SEP) and IICA. Evaluation of the contribution made
by each individual consultant was based upon: (a) clarity and value of the
recommendations made in the periodic and final reports of the consultant;
(b) recommendation as to future actions required to implement the results
of the service provided, based on the initial terms of reference and actual
performance; and (c) direct contribution to counter-part training, to the
extent this was part of the terms of reference.
2.11     Evaluation of the Consultants.  Based on the above criteria it was
concluded that about 802 to 852 of all consultant services provided were
generally adequate. In several instances, the contributions were
outstar,ding and invaluable, with long-lasting beneficial effect. Of the
unsatisfactory performances noted these appeared mainly to be due to:
(a) discrepancies between the candidate selected and his/her ability to
meet the terms of reference requirements; (b) language anu cultural
differences; and (c) consultancy timeframe too restrictive, or
inappropriate due to external factors beyond the control of EMBRAPA or the
consultant. In the case of (c) above, the inadequate or unsuitable time
frame usually occurred when a specific cor. Altant, r,r example a professor
at an agricultural college abroad, was chosen as the sole candidate on the
basis of his or her previous knowledge of the country, of EMBRAPA, or even
the specific research project requiring the technical assistance input.
Frequently, this led to a consultancy period determined, both as to length
and season of the year, by the professor's duty at his university rather
than the requirements of the consultancy task in question.
2.12     A total of 379 consultants were engaged.  Of these, 150 were under
long-term contracts of more than one year and the remaining 229 served
under short-term contracts. A total of 43 experiment stations andlor
research support units benefitted from consultancy services. Some 24
different research disciplines were involved, covering more than 75
distinct study areas.
2.13     Research contracts.  At project appraisal these were designed to
(a) provide more flexibility in cases where it would be difficult to
assemble a team of consultants to concentrate on a specific problem area
over a loosely-defined time period, and (b) to enable Brazilian
institutions, particularly universities and research institutions to



- 19 -
participate, particularly in the area of project evaluation and related
socio-economic studies. Although the number of contracts signed (10) was
insignificant in comparison to the initial estimate of 130, ic provided a
suitable vehicle to provide long-term assistance in the Genetic Engineering
area (contract with Plant Genetic Systems, PGS, of Belgium) and also for
the Socio-Economic Studies leading to the evaluation of the project and its
possible future impact on the economy (IPPRI and Yale University). The
large discrepancy between the estimate and actual number of contracts
signed would suggest the need for greater care in defining requirements, at
project preparation and appraisal, and not to assume that their use is not
appropriate as a sub-component of the Technical Assistance package.
PROJECT EVALUATION
2.14     Honitoring and evaluation received much more attention than in the
previous project (Agricultural Research I. Loan 1249-BR). While monitoring
on the basis of established Key Indicators had been part of the first
project, the concept of a continuous process of accruing data suitable for
evaluation purposes as a component of project implementation was being
tested for the first time. Evaluation studies commenced with the first
year of project implementation and used a random sampling method to provide
a representative assessment of project impact through measurements of
research results at representative research units. The suitability of the
technology generated. its diffusion and development impact still remain to
be fully assessed over time. The research stations selected were chosen to
be representative of the three priority agro-ecological areas of the
project, i.e., Northeast, North and Centerwest, and of the three main types
of research stations, i.e., national commodity research centers (CNPAF,
CNPH, CNPMF, and CNPSD) the three regional research centers (CPATSA, CPATU,
and CPAC), and three service centers (CNPDA, CTAA, and SPSB).
2.15     The results of project related activities at these representative
researchlservice units was then evaluated. Services of universities were
used to collect field data at the farm level. Analysis was on the basis of
(a) original survey (base data), (b) data collected throughout the survey
period, tc) applicable technology generated andlor services provided,
Cc) analysis and critique of the technology diffusion process (research-
extension-farmer linkage), and te) socio-economic studies related to assess
impact at the farm level.
2.16     Economic Rate of Return.  Based on an analysis of the data so
obtained and by projecting a flow of benefits to 1999 the rate of return
was estimated to be 42.82 when only technology generating research units
were considered, and this fell to 40.52 when the research service units
were included as a cost factor; without quantitative benefits assigned to
these services. These ERR's compare well to the 37.82 figure estimated for
the first project and to several similar studies on the results of crop
research done in Brazil and published during the period 1975-87. A range
of 35.1 to 47 percent would appear to be the norm for such calculations.



- 20-
2.17     Develonment Impact.  The project was designed with the objective
of strengthening agricultural research in three priority regions
(Northeast, North, and Centerwest). These regions, historically, have
presented the major challenge to rational and economic agricultural
development. Of major importance in achieving this general objective was
the selective application of resources in the areas of (a) essential
research facilities and equipment; (b) contracting of individual consultant
services and research cooperative institutional rrangements. In an
attempt to measure the development impact of this research, various studies
were produced by outside (contracted) sources. Examples are:
'Research/Extension .linkages and their Effect on the Technology Diffusion
Process'; "Availability and Adoption of new Technology for Cultivation of
Rice and Beans and its Socio-Economic Effect', and "The Process of
Technology Diffusion in the Semi-Arid Tropics of Northeastern Brazil.' A
more complete listing of related evaluation studies produced appears at
Table 5 of this section (Part II).
LESSONS LEARNED
2.18     While not directly critical of the project's design, objectives
and implementation, the experience gained varied by region and room exists
for further priority emphasis and/or improvement. These were derived
mainly irom the monitoring .e"d evaluation component and, in some cases,
were evident in socio-econoa_c. studies for specific crops or regions.
A. The Northeast
(a) Poor technology transfer technique was shown to be the
chief constraint to progress in the adoption of technology
at the field level.
(b) Adaptation of existing or new production systems
technology at the farm level requires that suitable
adjustments be made to meet the differing requirements of
the user (landowner/producer) at the various income
levels. The inherent "risk aversion' factor at lower
income levels in this semi-arid production environment
should also be considered.
B. The North
a) More attention should be given to the problems related to
sustainable agriculture in this fragile ecosystem.
b) Priority should be given to the selection of crops based
on their compatibility with the natural resource base.
c) As for A(b) above.
d) With reference to technology transfer, the role of the
extensionist in establishing research priorities should be
given greater emphasis in research program planning.



_ 21 -
C. The Center-West
a) Technology adoption by producers in this region is much
faster, and more widespread than in the other two regions.
Two basic reasons for this are believed to be: ti) the
more innovative type of producer migrating into the
region, and (ii) literally no production can occur without
intensive use of the new technology developed for the
region, particularly in the area of soil amendments.
b) To ensure continued sustainability of these production
systems, th. reaction of the unique ecosystem of the
region (the "Cerrados'), must be closely monitored.
2.19     General Observations, applying to the project as a whole, includet
Ci) Basic information relative to the predominant ecosystems
by region is incomplete and requires further study.
(ii) Stare research units/companies should be strengthened to
enable them to utilize fully the new technology being
produced at the regional and commodity based reaearch
stations.
(iii) Despite difficulties encountered in implementing the
socio-economic and sivaluation studies in this project, the
program should be continued to provide management with the
basic knowledge required for planning and resource
allocation.
(iv) It is essential to maintain effective contacts with the
regional, state and local colleges and schools of
agriculture to sustain an appropriate level of
agricultural education and to stiw.ilate the training of
technical (research) staff.
tv) The services of the Basic Seed Service (SPSB) should be
expanded to include the specific requirements of crops
being propagated by vegetative means, e.g., tropical
fruits, rubber, banana, pineapple, cassava and potato,
etc.
(vi) The flow of investment and operational funds to the
national research program (PRONAPA) and system (SCPA)
should be sustained without drastic fluctuations in the
level of funding. Otherwise the results of long-term
research, typical in the agro-biological area can be
entirely lost due to lack of continuity of appropriate
funding.



-22 -                         l
ZIL
SreCON ACSICULIURAL RESRO$ PROJECT
(LOAN 2616-DR
ROJECT COMPLETION REFORt
u   eserarh P elcts b, NsnAl Prearam
NUMBER OF PROJECTS
Research Programs                          1982     19&8     1984      196     1936      1067    TOTAL
Rice                                      185      1g6      173       166      176       6e3      9s6
1eans                                     143      167      194       219      216       228    1,167
Matze                                    122       127      lal       143      143      169       829
Wheat                                      65      194      129       192     1in        194      624
Soya                                     le       178      167       176      166       lS      986
Beef Cattle                               190      226      242       229      208       266    1,300
Doiry Cattle                              141      167      157       1SO      la       138      882
Vegetables                                346      354      sa7       341      338       321    2,067
Cassava                                  118       113      102       102       90     11        632
costs                                      67      6s        67        62       51        62      357
Pigs                                      a6        79       87        78       65        70      439
Sorghum                                    79       77       76        61       70        70      465
Cottoa                                     73       76       77        96      113       128     6ga
Rubber                                    116      146      168       144      121       108      797
Temp. Fruits                               of     le       1t9       112      128       137 n82
Citrus                                    as        64       69        76       SO       64       401
Pineapple                                  44       43       43        38       34        86      238
Banana                                     47       41       41        44       51       a6       279
Mango                                      12       15       i1        17       it        11       77
Viticulture                                43       47       47        51       63        67      29n
Oil Palm                                   22       16       26        34       sO        19      149
Food Technology                            51       64       51        49       49       6s       822
Genetic Reources                         128       147      161       160      263       268    1,042
Soil Surveys                              47        46       49        46      65         49      290
Campo Corrado Studios 4/                   16       13       10        23       25        28      109
Semi-Arld Tropics 2/                       39       56       41         6       380       89      246
Humid Tropics Studies 3/                   1S       1s        16       26       29        33      135
Crop Adaptation Camp. Corrado              31       37       43        95       98       116      414
Crop Adaptation Semi-Arid Tropics          e6      114      118       IS9       92        67      "6a
Crop Adaptation H  Tropics                36        38       83        48       41        37      232
Cropping Systems Campo Corrado            23        27       43       a6        6o       86       289
Cropping Systems Sei-Arid Tropics          13       17       1s        19       13        18       93
Cropping Systems Humid Tropics             15       18       17        21       26        17      113
Forestry                                  6s        67      118       167      109       111      597
Enorgy Studies                        244       266      293      262       167       67    1,319
Poultry                                31        37       61        47       44       52       262
Coconut                                 0         0       26       aa        36       43       137
Plant Protection                            0        a        0        18       28        61      127
Soil Biology                                6        0       34        36       56       es       193
Babscu Palm                                 0        0        9        16       12        12       43
Animal Health                               a        0        0        62      175       140      377
Soil Conservstion                          0         0        0         0       31                 76
Crop Diversification                     240       263      861       327      31n      376    1,822
TOTAL                              3,233    3,569 e    ,909    4,046    4,186    4,123   23,916
Source: EMBRAPA



-23 -                                 Table 2
(LOAN 2610-RR)
PROJECT COMPLETION  RfPORT
Civil Works Taroots and Actual Construetion
(M2 of Construction)
Estimated         Actual
at           (Project
Research Center                    Appraisal       Completion)
CPAC    - Plansltins, OF                     -            12,878
CPATSA  - Petrolina, PE                    170               129
C:WA    - Campina Grando, PS             1,860             1,936
CNPMF   - Crux dn- Almes, OA            13,168                 -
CPATU   - Below, PA                      1,488             1,672
CNPCo   - Arecaju, SE                    1,220            65,86
CNPSO   - banaus, AM                     3,2610             ,228
CNPF   - Coleo", PR                      1,56C              9sa
SPSB    - Brasilia, OF                  10,400             4,054
CTAA    - Gueritiba, RJ                      -             6,Cs
CNPiS   - Sete Lagos., MO                1,659               676
CNPC    - Sobral, Pt                         -               412
CNPGC   - Campo Grande, MS               1,OO6               180
CNPH    - Brasilia, OF                       -             2,460
CNPCL   - Cal. Pach"eo, MC                   -             3,210
CNPOA   - Campinas, SP                       -             8.289
UEPAE   - Teresine, CE                     486             2,887
UEPAE  - Manaus, MA                          -               616
UEPAE   - Rio Branco, AC                 1,000             1,227
UEPAE   - Sa Vista, RR                     120             1,201
UERPAE  - Macepe, AP                        as             1,227
UEPAE   - Porto Velho and                1,180             1,191
Jiperana A VtIheno, RO
UAPWISA - (Anisml Health)                1,160                 -
Km 47, RJ
E11APA - Heaqurters,                         -            22,666
Brasilia, DF
TOTALS                              39,683            860,420
Source: EMDRAPA



24 -                                               PART 
Table S
UAAM
(LOAN 2516-60R)
PROmIEy COWSLltT!Ol REPORT
ruh. ** ,  a pt:tinaut  i Sdtaf Tralnina
W L                    AIRD                      TOTAL
Reserch Station or                 ---       -  -
Support Unit          NSC     PHD   SC 1/      USC     PHD   SC 1/      USC     PH0   SC 1/
CEKARENi                      O       O       10       0       2       2?       9       2      87
CNPA                          1        8     160       0       2       17       1       5     167
CNPAF                        17        9       5       2       8       88      10      17      56
CNPC                          O        1      75       1       8       6        7       4      a1
CNPCo                         8        0      18       6       a       11       8       0      24
CNPOA                         5        2      15       2       8       19       7       5      34
CNPF                          a        6       0       4       a       11       4       8      11
CNPOC                         6        8       2       0       4       16       6       7      18
CNPGL                         5       10       0       a       6       10       5      is      19
CNPH                          4        1      25       2       9       21       6      16      46
CNPMF                         a        2     190       0       7      23        6       9     213
CNPMS                         8        0       8       2       2       19       5       8      22
CNPO                          6        1       0       0       8       28       6       4      28
CNPSA                         1        8       0       1       7      81        2      10      81
CNPSD                         9        7      W        0       0       18       9       7      68
cNPT                          6        6       O       a       2        6       0       2       6
CPAC                         21        4      46       8      16       86      24      22      61
CPATSA                        8        1      16       6       9      46       18      16      64
CPATU                        20        8      20       1       4       26     2U        7      46
CTAA                         10        2      is       5       8       s6      15       F      76
UEPAE - BELEU                 6        0      85       6       0        2       6       a      87
UEPAE- MANAUS                 6        8       0       1       2       2        2       6      11
UEPAE - PORTO VELHO          12        1      79       1       0        a      18       1      79
UEPAE - RIO BRANCO            1        1      86       2       8        2       8       4      87
UEPAE - TERESINA              5        2       5       6       2        2       6       4       7
UEPAE - BOA VISTA             6        0      62       6       6        1       0       0      a8
UEPAE - VACAPA                a        0      52       0       a        1      0       a      61
SPSU                         12        0       5       9       6       82      12       a      87
ESRAPA - HQ                  55        5      s       29      42     226       64      47     276
EMPARN (STATE OED)           11        1       5       a       1       15      11       2      20
EPEAL (STATE O1NED)           5        *       S       6       1        7       5       1      19
TOTAL                  245       71   1          elO 61  154    760      896     225   1,7W0
1/ SC * Short Coure for Technical Studies.
Source: EIERAPA



-25 -                           PART II
Table 4
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan 2016-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Generation and Diffusion of Technologv
----------------------------------------.----------------.---_--__-__------
Number of         Number of        Number of
Experiments      New Varieties      Technical
Station/VnitlCroD           by Crop 1        Ieleased         Bulletins
CNPH:
Vegetable Research       2,067               13               326
CNPMF:
Cassava                    632                                 17
Fruits (P!.neapple)        238                1                 8
CNPSDt
Oil Palm                   149                -                38
Rubber                     797                                  8
CNPC:
Goats                      357                                 14
CTAAs
Food Technology            322               N/A               14
SPSB:                           -               312                 7
CPATUs
Tropical Farming Systems
(Crops. Fish and
Livestock)                 232                7               103
CPACs
Farming Systems for tho
Cerrados (Crops/Fruits.
Pastures)                  414                                 14
CPATSAt
Farming Systems for the
Semi-arid Tropics           93                                 24
----------------------------------------------------------------------__--
Sources EMBRAPA
1/ As of 6/31188.
21 All varieties (new releases included) of 7 major crops recommended and
distributed by SPSB.



PART II
.26 -                              Table 5
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2016-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Selected Bibliography of
Project IMpact Assessment Studies by EMBRAPA1/
Ref. No.                              Title
1.           'Socio-Economic Evaluation of EMBRAPA Research in the
Northern Region (in Portuguese).
2.           'Socio-Economic Evaluation of EMBRAPA Research in the
Center-West Region (in Portuguese).
3.           'Socio-Economic Evaluation of EMBRAPA Research in the
Northeast Region (in Portuguese).
4.           'Research/Extension Linkages and their Effect on the
Technology Diffusion Process" (in Portuguese) -
UFV/DERICPAC.
5.           'Social Influence and Impact on the Adoption of New
Technology for the Cultivation of Rice and Beans' (in
Portuguese) - UFV/DER/CNPAF.
6.           'Technology Level and Socio-Economic Aspects of the Various
Production Systems for Beans in Selected States in Brazil"
(in Portuguese) - UFV/DER/CNPAF.
7.           'The Process of Technology Generation - The Case of CNPAF'
(in Portuguese) - UFV/CNPAF, Vigosa, Brazil.
8.           'Process of Technology Diffusion in the Semi-Arid Tropics;
Northeast Region of Brazil' (in Portuguese) - CCA/UFC
(CPATSA).
9.           'Generation of Technology for the Semi-Arid Tropics -
1982/86' (in Portuguese) - CCA/UFC (CPATSA).



PART II
- 27 -                              Table S
Page 1 of 2
Ref. No.                               Title
10.           *Return on the Investment by EMBRAPA in Research in the
Priority Areas of the Agricultural Research I Project" (in
Portuguese) - Cruz, E.R. and Avila, R.F.D DEP/EMBRAPA
1985, Doc. No. 19, pp. 19.
11.            "Analysis of the Socio-Ecoxiomic and Technological Factors
Affecting Agriculture in the Center-West Region" (in
Pcrtuguese) - EIBPAPA-DEP, Brasilia, 1987 (EMBRAPA-DEP
Documents 29).
1/ As abstracted from the "Relat6rio de AvaliagIo Final" - EMBRAPA
(Vol. II. June 1988) pp. 268 and 270.



PART XT
-28-                       Table 6
SECOND ACRICUL?URAL RESCUCH PROJIEC
(LOAN 2016-BR)
PROJiCt COMPLETION REPORT
Incermntal Stff bv Unit and by Catesor, 11982-19871
RSEASRC      ADNSSTRATZVE
UNIT             RESEARCHERS      SUPPORT STAFP         STAFF       TOTAL
CNPA                          3                23                9          37
CNPAP*                        6               171               14         193
CNPC                         10                39                8          57
CNPGC                         9                33                3          49
CNPGL                        13                93               10         116
CHPKF*                       10                60                6          76
CumPS                         6               110                2         127
CNPSD-                       21                49                8          78
CNPSO                         6                53                3          62
CNPPA                         5                10                7          22
CNPT                          3                69                6          78
CNP8*                        14               123                7         144
CNPDA                        30                16               10          56
CNPPt-                        8                89               11         106
CUP?'                         7                20                2          29
CNPCo*                        4                22                0          26
CNPUV                         3                62                9          74
CNPAI                         3                32                3          38
CNPO                          7                21                2          :0
CNPCa                         1                 0                0
CTAA*                        17                 2                3
CEARGEN                      18                31                8          S7
CPAC*                        19               112               10         141
CPATSA'                       7               206               16         229
CPASU-                        6                95                4         115
CPAP                         32                38               sO          90
CPATh                        12                67                9          88
SNLCs                         3                27                3          33
SPSS-                        10               101               15         126
UZYA  Dt BLtE                 9                78                8          95
UXPAE 0! DOURADOS             4                20                3          27
UEPAE DE MANAUS              11                68                4          83
UZPAE DE PORTO VEL8O          7                74               10          91
UEPAl  DE RIO BRANCO         10                51                7          6G
U1PA1  De CABLOS              4                38                2          44
UEP* DIE TERESINA             3                16                3          22
UEPA  DE BSOA VSTA           29                25                9          63
UZPA DE MACAPA               18                20                5          43
U11118S                       5                16                4          25
UAPDIA*                       6                 3                9          18
UAIIPXAM                      0                12                2          14
U??A'                         5                 1               2            6
UASZPL                        0                14                0          14
SZDU                         47                 0              5s          105
EHAPA                         2                 0                0           2
EMCAPA                        2                 0                0         ,2
EDEPA                         1                 §                0           1
EHDOPA                        1                 0                0           1
EMPAIN                        1                 0                0           1
EPADA                         1                 0                0           1
EPA?IC                        2                 0                0           2
EPZAL                         1                 0                0           1
PZSAORO                       1                 0                0           1
PI-SP                         1                 0                0           1
OUT20S ORIAOS PUBLICOS      13                 1                5          19
--.------------------_-----------------___-_----------------_________________
T 0 T A L                   481             2.222              351       3.054
Sources  EHBRAPA Relatorio de Avaliacao Final
Notes    Units marked with an asterisk (') are those funded by the project.
These exclude the  UioenergY  program and 'Zvglustion  activitiGa
included in research progrm at most centers and for which appraisal
foresaw needs for an additional 126 of stzff (26 researchers. 67
research support. and 33 administrative staff).



- 29 -
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2016-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FART III



BRAZIL
SECOND ACRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2=16-4K)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Related Bank Loana and Other Credits
YEAR OF
LOANACREDIT TITLE                          PtIlOSE                      APPROVAL            STATUS                       COuENTS
1. Braxil: Agric. Research I          To provido basic Infrastructure,              FY70       Completed and          Lon wa fully disbursed nd
Projoct (Loon 1249-B)             reserch facilities and  qulpment for                     PCR/PPAR lssued:       projoct was succe"eful In  chieving
the newly formed National Agricultural                   April 19S4.            its objetive. Completion mm
Reserch Company and to comence                                                  delayed by two yars.
training of necessary stff.
2. Brazil:  Agric. Extension I        To strengthen the nwly formd Notlonal         FM78       Compleotd and PCR      As for (1) above, howevrw
ProJo-4 (Loan 156643)             Agricultural Technical Assistance and                    Issued on  6-MAR4-7.  completion tooL four yars more
Rural Extenelon System (SIBRATER): the                                          than the original estimae  four-
coordinating (national) company                                                 year mnplem_tation period.
(EdRATER) and Its state/territorial
affilIates (EMATERw/ASTER1s).
S. Brailt: Agric. Extension II        Project Is deal gnd to further                FT         Completion estimetad   Current (31-DEC-S8) status of the
Project (Loon 2679-BR)            strengthen the federal (EMRATER) and                     for U-DEC-93.          project It one of moderste probloem
*tato/territorial (EMATER/ASTER)                                                (Status 2), ref lecting  bortag  of
agencies. Emphasis Is on staff                                                  counterpert funding in som  states.
training, commnicetions, audio-visual
aids and closer linkes  to the
reerch- xt nsion-former conept for
improvd technology diffusiln and
transfer.
Source: Bank Files
I..1-
I-
'-.
_ .



PART III
-31 -                                  Tabl- 2
BRAZIL
SECOND ACRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan 2016-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Timetable
-----------_-----------------------------------------------__----------------__---
ITEM                  DATE PLANNED     DATE REVISED      DATE ACTUAL
__________________________________________________________________________________
Identification (Executive
Project Sumary)                     June 1978         July 1978     July 4, 1976
Preparation (a)                       June 1978         June 1979      Nov. 1976 -
July 1979 (a)
Appraisal M;isson                     July 1980        Aug. 1980  Aug.-Sept. 1980
Loan/Credit Negotiations              Apr. 1981         May 1961   May 6-12, 1981
Board Approval                    Apr./May 1981          May 1981    June 16, 1961
Loan/Credit Signature                        --                --     July 6, 1961
Loan/Credit Effectiveness          Oct. 8, 1961      Oct. 8, 1981     Dec. 6, 1981
Loan/Credit Closing               Dec. 31, 1987    Dec. 31, 1987    Dec. 31, 1987
Loan/Credit Completion            June 30, 1967    June 80, 1966    June 30, 1986
(a) A total of five brief missions.
Source: Bank files.
PART III
Table 8
Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Bank FY    1982    1983   1984   1985   1986   1987    1988
Appraisal Estimate                      6.9   19.6  34.0  46.9  56.0  60.0             -
Actual                                  3.4   10.6  27.3  47.0  66.7  59.1   60.0
Actual as K of Estimate                49.3   64.4  60.3  100.2  101.8  98.6  100.0
Date of Final Disburement:  June 16, 198
Source: Bank Records.



PART III
-     -                                 Trble 4
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan z016-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Result
Key Indicators
-----------------------------------_-_--------__----_-___-----__-------------__-
1ndicators I                     Appraisal     Actual *t
Indicvtors j/                 Unit          Estimate    Closing Dat  2/
REGIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAMS
Seni-Arid Tropics (CPATSA)        No. of experiments    1,319           938
Humid Tropics (CPATU)             No. of experiments       113          474
Campos Cerrados (CPAC)            No. of experiments      242           699
COMMODITY RESEAkCH PROGRAMS
Rice                              No. of experiments       360         9no
Beans                             No. of experiments      460         1,167
Veetable Crops                    No. of experiments      750         2,067
Fruit Crops                       No. of experiments      200           99
Coco.:uts                         No. of experiments        s0          137
Oil Palm                          No. of experiments      200           149
Dabeoau                           No. of experiments        20           43
Rubber                            No. of experiments       440          797
Forestry                          No. of experiments      150           697
Basic SeedS                       No. of experiments        35           6o
Agricultural Engineering          No. of experiments        35           31
Food Technology                   No. of experiments        80          322
Bloenergy                         No. of experIments       150        1,319
Animal Health                     No. of experiments       140          377
SUPPORT SYSTEMS
Information *nd Documentation            (X)              100           100
Evaluation                               (X)              100           100
INCREMENTAL STAFFING                    number          1,308         2,197
Reserrch Staff                          number           (224)        (316)
Support and Administrative Staff        number         (1,079)      (1,802)
CONSULTANTS                           man-yers          168.3        405.40
Short-To- rMa"n-years                                   (99.0)        37.28
Long-Term                             man-years         (6?5.)       368.13
RESEARCH CONTRACTS                      number           130             7
FELLOWSHIPS                        No. of condidates     205           531
Ph.D. - Urazll                     No. of candidates      (22)         (71)
Ph.D. - Abroad                     No. of candidates      (65)        (154)
M.Sc. - Brazil                    No. of candidates       (77)        (245)
M.Sc. - Abroad                     No. of candidates      (41)         (61)
SHORT-TERM COURSES                No. of participants    320         1,760
Brazil                            No. of participants    (97)       (1,000)
Abrood                            No. of participants   (223)         (760)
CIVIL WORKS CONTRACTS, value          (USS'OOO)        20,620        13,714
1/ The Indicators are those defined at appraisal, and monitored during
tmplementatIon.
O/ Sasod on Information provided by EMBRAPA in Its Project Completion
Report of July 1988.
Source: Sank Records.



- 33 -                             PART III
Table 5
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2016-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Proiect Cost and FinancinR
A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                    Actusl
Local      Foreign              Local      Foreign
Item             Costs  Exchango Costs  Total  Coats  Ex,henge Costs  Total
1. Civil Works               16.42       4.10      20.62      6.71 2/   8.00 2/    13.71 2/
2. Research D.velopmsnt 1/   a.99        0.40         --       --        --         20.98
3. Office and Fare Equip.   11.17       14.65      26.72      8.70     17.23        20.93
Lib. i Doc. Services
4. Consultants                1.99      11.80       13.29     0.04     17.10        17.14
5. Fellowships A Training    2.69        3.99       6.68      0.21     16.87        16.68
6. Contract Research and
Other Tech. Assist.        2.64      10.66      18.20      0.08      1.80         1.38
7. Salarios and Wages        21.96        --       21.96    66.48        --         66.46
S. Other Oper. Costs          7.26       1.81       9.07    23.77                   23.77
Contingenclea
a) Physical Contingency       4.12       2.18       6.26       --        --           --
Price Contingency         17.66      11.16      26.81       --        --           --
T 0 T A L S               90.09      69.99      160.06   88.94      60.00       148.94
1/ Including Land.
2/ Includes Ro3narch Farm Development and Land.
loure*: Dank/Borrower Records
B. Proiject Financing
Planned
(Loan/Credit
Source         A                  Revised           Final             Coamants
(US5'OOO)     (USs'OOO)  X      (US3U5   S
IBRO/IDA              60,000        -                 60,000      40
Expenditures
Categories
Co-Finoncing                           None
Institutions
Other External                         None
Sources
Domstic (EbBRAPA)    90,090         -         -        68,940     6o
TOTAL                150,090           None           148,940    100
Source_ __________________________________________.____________Records__________________
Soureo: Sank/Borrower Records



- 34 -                                                        PART III
Table 6
COVB4ANr                                          SUSJI1111                         OSAOUP  POR COMPLAt4C AND/Mft SrArU3
L.A.!/ Article IZ. Section 2.02(b)               SOProw9       I e allcan and thereafter           CompIled with. Special Account was
Speta   cial.61.  Account.                 esaeblished on 23-MAR-112.
L.A. Article 1U. Section 3.01(e)                 Harrower shall I crry out the pr-oject            Efficiency es. frequentl  hammeredb
with du* dIligence and efficiency with           restrictiona oh hirini  fIoriet
approsriaSe adiistrative. financial,         stf.9PP   okaao,aeato
agracultural end ecientifia research            where poasible thrlough the Ministry of
practICee.                                       AgriculIture.
L.A. Ar-ticlo 111, Section, 3.01(b)              Harp.o... ahall, by Naovmbier 80 each.            Plano for. the annual budget., were
yVear furnish, to Sankt, a detailed              reasived on sime fol. eis peers.
;protet Impleameteation p lan for the            Occeemalel d. Ieye of 1-2 month& were
lot owing yer:nd by February 25 at              eaperienced.
each year.th Y:Pbudgetary ml location to
cover the 0requmi rmnte of the plan
referred to.
L.A. Article 112. Section 8.01(c)                ey 8@4-P.41 eubmit to SeRk a plan for             Monitoring and Evaluetion Plan its
moritoplng and evaluation eystema for            regmived 10-OCT401.  A first  "rre"s
the project,                                     reor  on evluation woke receives on
2,D4and annual report mubeequently
thereafter.
L.A. Article 1ZU. Section 3.02(a, b)             E~loy coneultanta to aesiet in                    h    ycw  e   ih
cectln  pars A. 5 S. tand P of the                y      le   ih
t    .e   Reserch PrO ass.
Docuenotion Spates. Trelnl ng Program
and moitoringloevluatioan of project.
L..A. Article III. Section 8.04AC)               Mak eavailable to Bank the Plans,                   i   cmlewth
specifications, reorfs  owtractu
*rocures  she dul  esand any maeerial
modifications thereof.
L.A. Article 11. Section 3.04(k)                 Purnigh to the Seeak Rt later than                Resorts vere  frequently deleaed by 1-2
AprIl 80 and October 81 eaeh peer a              monthe  but were eleaphi  doeti ced and
project progress resort.                         informative eo to project progree.
L.A. Article U. Ssecttion 8.O(g)                  yt 80-SW-01 aPoint and thereafter                Project    odtor wee bppointed
maintain a project coordinator with              0eeber 1    S        lowing review of
adeqate quelifications and experience.               ifck on 13-NOV1.  A
*eng      t         ated project
'*"s ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~or intrwsmdeefcev
15-SEW-SI.
L.A. Article U11, Section 3.08(b)                 Maintai a-Id adequatly staff a unit to           Fully  e  COm pli ed with.  Unit wee already
design eng superve  civil works.                 in ewistne ce at 8-C   41 and wee fully
maintained there *fter.
L.A. Article 11U. Section 3.6(s. b)              Re srdinig research p:rorm, montoring             Monitoring wee consistent and evaluation
a  A2eval uation studie  (Parts A and F)         was carried out in great detail
furnish reports on the research programs         foI loing completion of ° ee_tudies
when co-pleted and, no later than               during late 1982.  The Bank, in
30-JUN-04 furnIoh a aid-tere review   ereeset vith 84APA. diapeneed with
prepared by s  group of esper" with               o nesd for a mid-tens review as
qualI IfiCations and iterma of referencae        ressearch program  were proceeding
eatiefactory to the Sank.                        normally.
L.A. Article I11  Section 3.07                   Acuire the neceaeary right  In repect             Fully complied with.
of land. required to crsry out the
Project and Present evidence
eatiesftlery to the Senk concerning
thoam rights.
L.A. Article lIl, Section 8.06                   Not later then 80- 1*4-4 retiew                   In eon mchenge of letters betae" bank
aemanSt arrangements and proedures               (15-eensh ) and  IAWPA (5-JUL414) it
sein   ryin  out the Project and                to. agreed that there was no ned for
introduce promptly  uch change" as may           further administrative chans.
b. deeaed necesasry in the light of such
re. lee.
L.A. Article V. Section 5.02                     Provide to the, Bank certified copies of          Audit. were sw ally received about one
n audit of 'it. accounte  nd financial           to thre months overde. CdertifuleI
atatemset.  The audit to be performed            sateteents concerning the Specisl
by en Independent auditor acceptable to          Account were prepared and submitted as
th.e Snh. Audit to be foraarded not              reawired.  SOe   were etamined in the
later than 4 month  eftar the close of           field, duInng superiaion. and were
the fiocal year. Also forward to the             found to b * in order.
Bank the certified statemr nte releting
to the  Special Account.
L. L.A. - Loan Agreement
Source:  Bank Files,



PART III
Table 7
SECOD AQRL?tM      RLlAW0 PROJEICT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR
Us, of dlnk Rasoureas
Stage of
Pro,ect C.,l          Plannd         Revised       F;nal                       Comments
Through Appioiasi        -              -           29.7
Appraisal through
Board Approval           -              -           6356
Soard Aoproval
Through
Effectiveness            -              -              .
Supervielon              -              -           101.0
COepletion Report (PCR)                              5.1
TOTAL                                           224.6
oMi 0on-
Oats     ND. of    "an days   Sp.c;eleastion.  Performance                  Type of
M.;.o,n Oats      (so/yr)   Pers        in F;ield     Repreosnted*/    Rsn,ingin     Trond!/   ProblemsJ
Identifies  am       7/76       2          4               A;A            -           -            -
i-, Mgn            4p         2           0               A E
;isi_on It         8/79       1           4               A
Pro-Appraisal        3/S0       a           8        A;A;E;ARq;RA;LS      -           -            -
Edordort             8/60       9         1l0       A;A;E;E;ARq;FS;LS;SP;RA
board 6ADOOVA I
Erfctvaes -                      
9Up mrvia,oni       01/82       2          28       A;RA                  2          2             WP
Supervision 2      8-9/82       2          30       A;CE                  2           2            WP
Supervision 3      3-4/66       2          36       A;CE                  2          2             WP
Supervialon 4       10/83       1          10       A                     2           2            WP
Supervition 5      4-56/4       1          26       A                     2           2           FP
Supervision 6      8-9/64       1          12        A                    1           1            P
Supervision 7      3-4/65       1          16        1                    2           1            WP
Supervison 8         9/6S       1           9       A                     2          2
Supervison 9         S/S6       2          38       A;CE                  2           2
Supervision 10      12/66       2          38       A;CA                  1          2
Supervision 11     5-6/87       1          21       A                     1           1
Comoletion Mission                (n o t  c oan  ;i d ar * d        ao n ti a)
I/ Key to Specilization                       V Key to Status                      j Key to Proble
Other Proisct Data:
Borroer:                            BPOA. Brastlia-OF, Brazil
Exscting Ancy:                      9 WPA
Guarantor:                          Federative Republic of Brazil
Fisal Yeer of Borrower:             January 1 - Occaber 31.
Name of Currency and Abrv;iation:  Cruasiro (Crs)J. Cruado (Ca$)J/
Currency Euchansa Rats (Varlw * sraoa:Follr--on Pro;ct:
1962:  Cr6  179.40        19S6    CZ613.65J/                   N:  Third Agricultural Rsearch Project
19dS:  CrS 576.20         1987:  CS9.30                       Loan/Credit No.J
1984:  Cr61 845.30        1986:  Cd225 26                     Loan/Credit Amount!/          8 million
195:  Cr56 .2O5.00/                                           DOat of Board Approvel!/
j/  A * Agriculturist; RS * Roserch Specialist (OPS); CE * Civil Enginesr; CA  Consultant Agriculturist;
E* Econos;ib; RA * Reserch Administrator; LS - Livestock Specialist; ARq a Architect; SP * Soi l
Specialist
1 a Probles froe or minor problems; 2 - Moderate probil_; 3 - Major proble.
I  toproving; 2 * Stationary; 3 - Ostariorating.
F * Financial; P * Political.
Until February 26. 1986.
From HMech 1. 196.
Yet to be determinsd.
Yet to be ngotistad.
Septeber 1989 (tentative).
F;



*   i( E N EVENEZUELA ,Y                                         (RENCH
jOL:M,IA1'                               /SURINAME\WIANN,
C  O    L O  M    B  I A,-,'                    Boo sVsto.   {    Ya,\               j)      j                                           BRAZ I t
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
-N-.                                                      Imcoel                                 I   PROJECT
.-                                        l                                         -) 0 - , . *ayo Location of Research Stations
1                              Tefe V. -         flMjus             %| M                                               SaoLuis
-                                                                //s' / Atan Jrnra       * 9             .            jI
F arteza
f                                         -     v         (         /            *IX <~°Bmperoariz                                uTeresina                          uzeiro
S  2                                     .~~~~~~~~~joa0pessoo
4'*Porto   -                                        -/PicoCs                                U Polmoris?                           ife
_lo    ¢~~~~Ri Broprico         ,f         Velho                                                                                       P etOli!             S
/LL+X   '    <               $pPnana         ~        ?                    {                 ,               , o                   *krcca u                   10
P E  R  U   )    \-.   VVihen)                                                          !                           Cruz dos Alrmas
1                                          /r3O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'> ~~~~~~~~~~~SaIvodor
l                      ))           CUES13;         '       ,/ J                    ss U,06
\  7  i--noRondonoTol /  BRASILIA    Pitnoltion
BO             L I V I AGoinio                                                            
~~~~~~1/1    ,                            Ir-
V~~       ~           ~~~ >   |                             Gra nde ;Eff L'   _               B  dj     LeopoIdd  RlhO SANTC
/  '    1    ...-r-(  \PARAGUAY j/y Droo   -                                       -D,   .5
S~oauo                           IPO0.44
CHILE]                              \.                                              S                       RiodeYnoeiro
i  (  qr  k Porib Grossat  aGulombo  u*   EMBRAPA HEADQUARTERS - NATIONAL CAPITAL
CurihbfO                            @    SEED PRODUCTION CENITERS
GI RESEARCH SERVICE CENTERS
) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~FIELID EXPERIMENT 'JNITS
UNA   f     s    nrdo              ANIMAL HEALTH PROGRAM .           CENTERS
.. ,SOtUTH                                                                                       FlorAiPnopol s                     U     AREA AGRICULTURA. REFSEARCH CENTERS
RAIL J)              i             A  R  G   E  N   T  1        A    .         Fundo FLoAs6p0s                                 *    NATIONAL COMMODITY CENTERS
9    5R8ro,silorA I                                              A                                                                    UEPAE DR SATELLITE STATIONS
AME'RIA                                                                                                                                  TON
<  tAMExlCA  >  /  s X   han S n,nsm,shb IS.tolar                                                                                *    STATE ANDTERRITORVCAPITALS
/  /                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ P6rtoAIegre'i--                        0      ON
1WO, I  Woralhn*sSDf/C¢CbSveSI,O        J      ff    tt_, *1  > ,r J '                                      -       STATEANDTERRtITORY BOUNDARIES
'x/ B f \                   d             1 e lo~70 2h 3? A  KM Er  INTERNATIONALROUNDARIES  i -
IS.san,s_ _.ss.sfSk., I                                               -           161n 5  g1| D 2W 1 HER SIlL       RIVERS                    5
_    v   W - t 6vA Sond ,sn h .i r                                                           2          MILES
.,                NP blNZ[6-- on NS rlA slaI a             <                        /                                                                                              _ rU.So
W_ V   lBSl - d,.                               .                                                              I.



_   t   _         <                 f 9  >><0                ~~~~~~~~~~~~PARAMARIBO                                               '                 SDIB4
C O  L O  M  F; I A                                 r      i    w,g      N         E. R        E
t: ;,~~~A!,                                              j!_5S  ;' A t   a  n                                 t       ,       aOc   
i'>, -N\h.~/ 8'.'.',',>M,MAtf-
!>  ' \   0  p-9<-   Nnt.                                                                                                              wunwAPA
ROIt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                           NDE*4Lm5R     SOlLY4#)   p         _<  1   E  tR  ,,_,
RhTAW  i NIOBRN)  _t_-tJJCO0
tTHEsIS.O.FufU*t a   s;         CATARINA                              °              k    cl         A        ot~~~~~~~~~P
s  ix  o.    .A>; t> 7 OtLoIANc?oU fi 194  . a R  Z I LA
P_  T- e>NE;        ^ R1   G5UND QoLRE [  
r   .t  rb0 .At AJb ORR s i       Xe     I        t               g./                             l                             rA
0 ~        ~%                         ) Ay t/                               .enfTr                                          tSf/OM
\rle  /v^teweseasiosus Azfficvs9l>Z0A.Z.   PUCNOSAIRTEVILBEO   Yr             ar                 fr            w        i        ;r.."



