Document of                             li-
The World Bank
FOP OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NO.3357a-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PR
May 25, 1981
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    -    Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                          -    Cr$ 82.53 (May 5, 1981)
Cr$ 1.00                         -    US$0.012117
Cr$ 1 million                    -    US$12,117
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                      =    3.28 feet
1 kilometer (kim)                =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                         10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kiloineter (km2)        =    100 hectares = 0.386 sq miles
1 cubic meter (m )               =    1.31 cubic yards or 264.2 US gallons
1 kilogram (k;)                  =    2.2 pounds
I ton                            =    1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
(see next page)
l
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
EMBRAPA (THE BORROWER AND EXECUTING AGENT) FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Average Exchange Rates:
1975     1976      1977      1978      1979     1980
US$1.00:   Cr$ 8.128   10.786   14.138   18.317   27.581   52.44



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ACI            Advisory Office for International Cooperation
Assessoria de Cooperacao Internacional - EMBRAPA
ATA            Advisory Office for Technical Administrative Affairs
Assessoria Tecnico Administrativa - EMBRAPA
CIAT           International Center for Tropical Agriculture
Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical
CIMMYT         International Center for the Improvement of Maize and Wheat
Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo
CIP             International Potato Center
Centro Internacional de la Papa
CPAC           Research Center for Agriculture in the Cerrados
Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria dos Cerrados - EMBRAPA
CPATSA         Research Center for Agriculture in the Semi-Arid Tropics
Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido - EMBRAPA
CPATU          Research Center for Agriculture in the Humid Tropics
Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Umido - EMBRAPA
COMPATER       National Commission for Agricultural Research, Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension
Comissao Nacional de Pesquisa Agropecuaria e de Assistencia
Tecnica de Extensao Rural
DCD            Department of Accounting and Budget Control
Departamento de Contabilidade e Administracao da Despesa -
EMBRAPA
DID            Department of Information and Documentation
Departamento de Informacao e Documentacao - EMBRAPA
DRO            Department of Program Planning and Budgeting
Departamento da Receita e Programacao Orcamentaria - EMBRAPA
DTC            Department of Science and Technology
Departamento Tecnico Cientifico - EMBRAPA
EMBRAPA        Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation
Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
EMBRATER       Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Corporation
Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
INPA           National Institute of Research for Amazonia
Instituto Nacional de Pesquisa da Amazonia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS (Cont:inued)
PLANASEM       National Seed Improvement Plan
Plano Nacional de Melhoramento da Semente
POLAMAZONIA    Development Program for the Integrated Areas of Amazonia
Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas da Amazonia
POLOCENTRO     Development Program for the Integrated Central Areas
Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Centro
POLONORDESTE   Development Program for the Integrated Areas of the Northeast
Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
POLONOROESTE   Northwest Brazil Integrated Development Program
Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
PROALCOOL      National Alcohol Program
Programa Nacional do Alcool
PRONAPA        National Program for Agricultural Research
Programa Nacional de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
SPSB           Service for the Production of Basic Seed
Servico para Producao de Sementes Basicas - EMBRAPA
UEPAE          Unit of Research Execution at the State Level
Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual
UEPAT          Unit of Research Execution at the Territorial Level
Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa de Ambito Territorial
PROBOR         Program of Assistance to New Rubber Plantings
Prcograma de Incentivos a Producao de Borracha Natural



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in the Economy
General
1.01      Brazil can be divided into five major ecological areas, which
follow fairly closely the five main geopolitical regions--the North (Amazonia),
Northeast (Semi-Arid zone), Center-West (Campos Cerrados), Southeast and
South. The areas cover a range of climatic conditions from the hot-humid
tropics in the North, the arid and semi-arid tropics of the Northeast, to the
sub-tropical and temperate zones in 2the South and Southeast.  The national
territory amounts to 8.5 million km , or 850 million ha, of which 36% is
registered as being in agricultural properties.
1.02      The general importance of the sector is measured by the share of
Brazil's population which is still rural (over 36%); the importance of
agricultural employment in the labor force (over 35%); and the contribution
of the sector to GDP (around 11%) and to export earnings (over 50%). The
country, essentially self-sufficient in agricultural production (except
for wheat and rice and, occasionally, maize and beans), is the world's
second most important exporter of agricultural commodities.
The Rural Population and Agricultural Labor Force
1.03      The estimated population of Brazil in 1980 was about 119 million,
with some 43.4 million (36.5%) in the rural area. Since 1970 there has
been a shift of people from rural to urban areas, with rural population
dropping from 44% in 1970; however, the absolute size of the rural population
has increased from 41.6 million in 1970 to 43.4 million in 1980. On a regional
basis, the relative shift to urban areas has been most pronounced in the North,
Southeast, Center-West and Northeast. An important implication for agricul-
tural development is the need to improve the production efficiency of those
who remain in rural areas; this includes the need for greater attention to
economic mechanization of at least some farming operations.
1.04      There is a wide range in population densitites among regions--
from 1.6 inhabitants per sq km in the North to 56.0 in the Southeast (based on
1980 data). There is much less regional variation in the proportion of the
population in the rural areas. The Southeast is an exception, having only
about 15.6% while the other four have 40% or more (Annex 3, Table 1).



- 2 -
1.05      Also agriculture still engaged 15.6 million people during 1976.
This represented 35.8% of the total active labor force and may be compared
with 22.9% for industry and 41.3% for services. Despite increased mechaniza-
tion, particularly in the South and Southeast, there is some evidence of
growing labor scarcity in the rural areas, particularly of those labor
skills required for the adaption to new production technology. Greater
investments are thus needed in human capital, including the generation and
dissemination of improved technology.
Land Resources and Use
1.06      The total area registered as being in agricultural properties
(1975 data) is approximately 310.0 million ha, or 36% of the total land area.
However, of the area in agricultural properties, only 42.2 million ha (13.6%)
is in either annual or perennial cropping use; 165.6 million (53.6%) is used
for livestock (native or improved pasture); 67.8 million ha (21.9%) is used
for extractive or planted forestry operations; and the remaining 30.6 million ha
(10.9%) is considered as productive agricultural land not currently utilized.
The area in crop use is said to be expanding rapidly, and estimates show an
additional 3.7 million ha to have been added in the 1975 to 1977 period alone.
Currently, and in part because of the rapid expansion of sugarcane production
for the National Alcohol for Fuel -rogram (PROALCOOL), it is estimated that up
to 2.8 million ha of new land will be put into cultivation annually during the
1981 to 1985 period, or a total of 14.0 million ha (Annex 3, Table 2).
Production Trends
1.07      Brazil's gross domestic product has grown rapidly, averaging more
than 7% per annum in real terms since the end of World War II. Agricultural
value added over this period expanded at an average rate of about 4.5%, and
over the past five-year period (1975 to 1979) agriculture has maintained
its relative importance in NDP terms in a narrow range of 10.53% to 12.40%.
Agricultural exports, including processed farm products, have grown 16% per
year in nominal terms since 1965 and have consistently accounted for half of
total exports up until 1977. In recent years there has been a slight drop, with
48% registered for 1979 and an estimated export contribution of 47% in 1980.
The sector has performed well and, in spite of several years of weather-related
poor harvests, is contributing increasing amounts of foodstuffs, raw materials,
and foreign exchange to the economy (Annex 3, Table 3).
1.08      The major export crops are coffee, sugarcane, soybeans, cacao,
oranges, cotton and tobacco and major domestic food crops are maize, rice
beans, wheat, cassava, potatoes and bananas. Based upon the area cultivated
(each crop being cultivated on an area in excess of 500,000 ha) and production
value, these crops a priori warrant extensive research and extension inputs to
develop and foment the application of the most appropriate technology available.
1.09      While the rate of growth in agriculture has been remarkable, it
has resulted, for the most part (and not surprisingly given Brazil's land
resources), from increased area under cultivation rather than improved yields
(Annex 3, Table 4). Yields of basic food crops, including maize, rice, wheat,



- 3 -
beans and cassava, have improved little, if any, during the period 1948 to
1976 and, indeed, dry-land rice, beans, maize and cassava have experienced
erratic and slightly decreasing yields over the period. Since base yields
of most of the principal crops are low, a great potential exists for economic-
ally increased productivity through improved technology. It is also signifi-
cant that during the most recent 12-year period (1966 to 1977) for which
relevant data are available, the average annual increases in area cultivated
for basic food crops have been small (about. 3.8% for grains, 2.3% for beans,
and a decline of almost 1% for root crops). This compares with average annual
increases of about 5.7% for fruits and vegetables and 4.8% for export and
industrial crops (the export crop growth is heavily weighted by dramatic
increases in soybean cultivation).
1.10      With respect to animal production, the Brazilian cattle population
is estimated to have increased to about 89 million head by 1979 (Annex 3,
Table 5). Pigs are reported to number 37.6 million; horses (including mules
and donkeys), 9.4 million; and chickens 310.0 million. In addition, Brazil
has significant numbers of goats (7.2 million) and sheep (17.2 million).
Dairy production, particularly fresh milk, remained fairly stagnant during the
1966 to 1972 period, with growth rates of approximately 1% per annum. However,
rapid growth (10% per annum) took place during the 1972 to 1976 period; in
1980 milk production was estimated at 10.2 million tons or slightly above
1979 figures. Processed products, such as butter and cheese (240,000 tons
and 90,000 tons, respectively) also showed increases over the previous year.
Beef production reached a peak of 2.4 million tons (carcass weight) in 1977,
but has tended to fall in recent years, making Brazil a net beef importer in
1978/79. Cattle numbers slaughtered during 1980 are estimated to have remained
stable at 10.7 million head. The poultry industry on the other hand has shown
phenomenal growth in recent years (1975 to 1979), with carcass production
increasing by more than 92% in that period. The export value of frozen
poultry also rose from US$20.0 million in 1976 to US$72 million in 1979.
Exports and Imports
1.11      The value of agricultural commodity exports has shown a marked
increase during the past decade and is estimated to have reached around
US$9.5 billion in 1980. Even so, the share of agricultural products in
overall exports has gradually declined, from 57% in 1975 to 47% in 1980
(Annex 3, Table 3). Brazil's export sector was formerly dominated by one
commodity, coffee; in the mid-1960s, it accounted for about 45% of total
export earnings but by 1975 its share had fallen to 11%. In recent years,
agricultural exports have been greatly diversified. For example, exports of
soybeans and soybean products were the country's largest foreign exchange
earner in 1975. Although three commodities--coffee, soybeans and sugar--now
generate around 40% of total export earnings, other important agriculture-based
exports include cotton textiles and yarn, leather goods and twine, and,
slightly less important, wool, molasses, sisal, horse meat, bananas, Brazil
nuts, cashew nuts, pepper, carnauba wax, and essential oils.
1.12      Wheat usually accounts for one-third (in terms of value) of Brazil's
agricultural imports (3.8 million tons in 1979). Other principal import
commodities have been natural rubber, live animals for breeding, temperate



- 4 -
zone fruits and nuts, milk and milk products, and certain meats and seeds.
Bad crop years because of drought result in periodic importations of small
quantities of such basic food crops as maize, rice and beans.  The value of
these food import:s, mostly cereals, was about IJS$0.3 billion in 1975 rising
to almost USS1.0 billion in 1980.
B. Government Agricultural Policies
1.13      Through much of the post-World War II period, agriculture was viewed
in Brazil as a sector to be exploited, a source of financing and inputs to the
primary strategic objective of industrial development. The policies designed
to accomplish this latter objective and to achieve the desired inter-sectoral
resource transfers have included, inter alia, an overvalued exchange rate,
price controls on domestic foodstuffs, export taxes and quotas on unprocessed
goods, and tariff protection to domestic industries. Credit (paras 1.15 to
1.18) has been the principal tool with which successive Brazilian governments
have attempted to compensate the sector for the discriminatory impact of other
policies and to stimulate agricultural investment and output. Interest
charges on agricultural credit are heavily subsidized. The massive flow of
subsidized credit to a minority of Brazilian farms has probably had an impor-
tant impact on the distribution of incomes within the agricultural sector, the
distribution of resources among producers of different crops, and the use of
other inputs, particularly land, fertilizers and machinery. Though the
Covernment now intends to reduce credit subsidies, adjustments will have to be
made in parallel to the input and output price ceilings and controls, quotas
and other devices which have long been applied in Brazil to the detriment of
any long-range plans for agricultural production incentives.
1.14      The present Government has placed upon agriculture a heavy respon-
sibility for helping to dampen inflation through the expansion of domestic
food production and to alleviate the balance-of-payments constraint on
overall growth, both by increasing exports and by reducing the economy's
dependence on imeported petroleum through the substitution of domestically
produced alcohol and through the potential substitution of diesel fuels with
vegetable oils. More specifically, agricultural development has been assigned
a high priority in Brazil's current development plans (1980 to 1985), with
major policy obiectives including:
(a)  increased production of basic staple and export crops, with
special emphasis on assistance to small- and medium-scale
producers;
(b)  the creation of better integrated systems of production,
storage, transport and marketing;
(c)  the expansion of agricultural research activities and the
increased use of modern inputs and appropriate technology;
(d)  the decentralization of agricultural policy execution,
increasing the participation of the private sector and state
and local governments; and
(e) increased production of energy substitutes.



To help achieve these objectives, the Government has, in addition to continuing
its support for the strengthening of the research and extension services,
reinforced its support of special regional programs (paras 1.35 to 1.38).
However, Brazil's high inflation rate and large public sector deficits during
the recent years are forcing the Government to restrain public expenditure and
to focus more sharply on reducing the very high interest rate subsidies. In
December 1979, a new economic package was announced, which was designed to
lower the interest rate subsidy on agricultural credit. The package also
removed export subsidies and included a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro. In
early December 1980, a further set of measures was announced. In addition to
controls on public sector spending, the package called for further increases
in interest rates for the agricultural sector; however, various other Government
programs to promote certain facets of agriculture continue, some reinforced.
The large-scale PROALCOOL production program, which reflects the importance
of energy in current economic policy, will demand increased cultivation of
sugarcane, cassava and sweet sorghum. In addition, specific crop incentive
programs such as those to produce more cocoa for export (Program of Assistance
to New Cocoa Plantings, PROCACAU), and natural rubber to substitute imports
(Program of Assistance to New Rubber Plantings, PROBOR) continue to receive
substantial funding. The current status of Government programs and services
directed at the agricultural sector are described in more detail in paragraphs
1.15 to 1.38.
C. Agricultural Support Services and Programs
Credit 1/
1.15      The principal objectives of the Brazilian rural credit system are to:
(a) encourage timely and adequate outlays for the production and
marketing of agricultural products;
(b) stimulate the orderly growth of rural investments for the
storage, processing and industrialization of agricultural
products;
(c) permit the economic development of rural producers; and
(d)  provide incentives for the introduction of appropriate
new technology and methods of production.
The formulation of rural credit policy is the responsibility of the National
Monetary Council (CNM) and the control and implementation of credit programs
is the responsibility of the Central Bank. The rural credit system comprises,
besides the Central Bank itself, the Bank of Brazil (by far the most important
individual lender) and four other Federal banks, 33 state banks, 56 private
banks, and other financial institutions of minor importance.
1/   For a more complete discussion of the rural credit system, refer to
"Brazil - Financial Systems Review," Report No. 2790a of November 18, 1980.



- 6 -
1.16      Rural credit programs in Brazil may be broken down in two ways:
first, based upon operating, investment and marketing credit; and, second,
between the normal and special lines of credit. Within these broad classifi-
cations, there are some 170 distinct lines of credit and of these, about
one-third are reported by the Bank of Brazil as comprising the principal lines
of credit. The most striking feature of the credit system is the large amount
of money involved and the fact that much of this input comprises a very high
subsidy to agricultural production. In 1978, the volume of rural credit was
estimated to be US$15 to US$16 billion equivalent; it was also a sum roughly
equal to the net value of agricultural production for that year. Approximately
one-third of this amount was considered to be a direct subsidy.
1.17       About one-fifth of the value of all crop-specific production loans
in recent years has gone to soybean producers, and 80% of such credit went for
six crops - soybeans, wheat, rice, maize, coffee, and sugarcane - which account
for about 60% of the gross value of total crop production. Striking, however,
is the fact that black beans and cassava, which together account for about 17%
of the value of crop production, received only 4% of crop-specific production
credit. Regionally, the Northeast, which accounted for some 22% of crop value
in 1977, received only 12% of crop production credits.
1.18      In view of the importance given to credit as the major tool of
agricultural policy and the rapid expansion of its volume and level of
subsidization over the past decade, remarkably little direct evidence is
available regarding its impact on investment and production.
Minimum Prices
1.19      The minimum price program was effectively initiated in 1946.  The
program is administered by the Commission of Production Financing (CFP),
an agency of the Ministry of Agriculture. For the past several years, the
program has set guaranteed floor prices for about 42 commodities. Key direct
and indirect objectives of the program are: (a) helping farmers make planting
decisions; (b) trying to ensure stable long-term minimum prices as a means
of stimulating expanded output of specific commodities; (c) encouraging the
storage of excess production at harvest for release between harvests; (d) pro-
viding a safety valve of possible Government acquisition of stocks during
periods of low prices; (e) providing relief to consumers from excessively high
prices through the releases of these Government stocks; and (f) assisting
livestock producers who use purchased feeds by ensuring more stable prices and
supplies.
1.20      Farmers and farm cooperatives have the option of selling their
approved products to the market at the going price, selling to CFP at the
guaranteed minimum price, or borrowing at highly subsidized terms from the CFP
against the minimum price value of the stored crop for later sale to the
market or to the Government. Although the minimum prices have been adjusted
upward in real terms over the past decade, they are still typically well below
market prices prevailing at harvest.



-7-
Other Pricing and Supply Control Mechanisms
1.21      In addition to the Minimum Price and Credit Programs mentioned
above, there are several other mechanisms by which the Government influences
crop production and agricultural development. Among these have been crop
specific price subsidies (e.g., the wheat subsidy, which is now being elimin-
ated); regulations on meat; milk subsidies; and control of storage and market-
ing of basic food stuffs through the intervention of the Brazilian Food
Company (COBAL). Finally, there are a series of input and taxation policies,
including subsidies on fertilizers, tractors and seed, for example, and taxes
on underutilized agricultural land, and a product value added tax on selected
agricultural commodities. From a production and resource allocation viewpoint,
the scope and range of the additional changes in, and the compability among
these various policy measures have to be taken into account for the long-range
planning necessary to improve the technology used in production systems.
Trade Regulation
1.22      Brazil has also used export-incentive policies to foster'growth in
agricultural exports--largely by periodic mini-devaluations, tax forgiveness,
and tax credits for exports as well as subsidized credit to pay for export
operations. In a continuing effort to balance its trade, Brazil has restricted
imports of agricultural products for some time. Export incentives have favored
the more highly processed agricultural products and have mitigated (in some
cases, perhaps uneconomically) against the export of raw agricultural commodi-
ties. At the end of 1979, some 60 agricultural products and their derivatives
were subject to export license control.
Research
1.23      The Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA, described
more fully in Chapter II), is responsible for national coordination and promo-
tion of agricultural and forestry research throughout Brazil, and thus plays
the primary role in the development of applied production technology and
improved farming systems development for the diverse agricultural areas of the
country. EMBRAPA executes research programs at its own network of regional
and commodity-oriented research centers, and also operates directly at the
state/territorial level through a series of research stations. Furthermore,
PtBRAPA also carries out research through funding of state-operated research
institutions and contract research with universities and other research entities
in both the private and public sector. In 1980, the National Program for
Agricultural Research (PRONAPA), encompassing all national research programs,
involved collaboration with 48 foreign and international research institutes,
23 Brazilian universities and schools of agriculture, three autonomous state
research institutes, and five private agro-industrial enterprises.
Extension
1.24     The Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Corporation
(EMBRATER) is responsible for the development of technical assistance and
rural extension. EMBRATER was instituted in 1975, and its headquarters are



- 8 -
in Brasilia. It is affiliated with the Ministry of Agriculture and its
general mandate is to:
(a)  coordinate technical assistance and rural extension with
national plans for economic and social development within the
country, particularly as these refer to science and technology,
credit and improvements in the quality of life for the rural
population; and
(b)  stimulate and assist interrelationships between the research
organizations and the users of the research, including the
transfer of technology and the evaluation of its application.
The overall nation,al technical assistance and rural extension system comprises
EMBRATER plus the 25 state or territory extension affiliates (EMATERs/ASTERs).
As in the case of agricultural research, the State of Sao Paulo operates its
own extension system and is not part of the national system affiliated to
EMBRATER. Unlike EMBRAPA, however, EMBRATER does not have direct responsi-
bilities for the implementation of extension services; EMBRATER's responsibil-
ities are for planning, coordination and supervision of general policy plus
providing whatever assistance it can to encourage the use of the most appro-
priate methodology by the individual state/territorial units. The main
vehicle it has for assuring an effective voice in these matters is Federal
funding control. Based on June 1980 data, the overall extension network
linked to EMBRATERt provides technical assistance in 3,124 municipalities
through 2,086 local offices.
1.25      The 1979 budget for the national technical assistance and rural
extension system (EMBRATER and its affiliates) was Cr$ 6.22 billion
(US$225.5 million). The 1980 budget covers estimated expenditures of
Cr$ 9.9 billion (IJS$190.0 million).
Agricultural Education
1.26      In 1979, there were some 45 institutions of higher learning offering
93 programs in thes agricultural sciences. Most of the schools and programs
have been started in the last 15 to 20 years; few are older than 30 years.
By far the greatest percentage (86%) of these institutions are either operated
by the federal or state education authority and only 14% are privately owned.
Twelve offer postgraduate courses. Most animal husbandry, forestry and
fisheries study programs are of recent origin, since, traditionally, only
agronomy and veterinary sciences were taught at the older institutions. There
are currently some 7,000 places annually for students wishing to study agri-
cultural sciences at university level. Of these, courses leading to a
degree in agronomy predominate, followed by veterinary science; in addition,
some 1,000 places are available for non-degree short courses in rural adminis-
tration, cooperatives, animal production and crop production.  The majority of
courses offered are at the undergraduate level. Opportunities for graduate
education are still concentrated in the South (27%) and Southeast (35%).
Training capability to meet national requirements is probably adequate at the
undergraduate level, but there is still a strong reliance on training abroad
for advanced degrees for agricultural research staff working in specialized
fields.



- 9 -
1.27      The major efforts initiated in the 1970s to reorganize and improve
the two key agricultural services in Brazil, research (EMBRAPA) and extension
(the EMBRATER system), depend on major improvement in agricultural education
and training to provide the types and numbers of staff needed. Also, under
EMBRAPA's research policy, universities are part of the integrated research
system and therefore expected to contribute significantly to the research
effort at national, regional and state levels. The support that universities
can provide to agricultural research is significant, considering that at least
1,000 university staff members are qualified to carry out research work (540
at M.Sc. and 460 at Ph.D. level), assisted by at least 1,300 students taking
postgraduate courses. Short training courses for farm leaders and middle-level
rural staff, utilizing existing facilities at agricultural schools, can also
provide an important input for in-service training given to extension personnel.
1.28      With a view to improving non-formal agricultural training, the
National Service for Rural Training (SENAL) was created in 1976. In general,
the impact of this program on farm labor and small-scale farmer training
in practical aspects of production has been positive.
Provision of Inputs
1.29     The provision and availability of appropriate inputs is a key factor
in increased agricultural production. For the most part in Brazil, provision
of fertilizers and other soil amendments, improved seed, plant protection
chemicals, and tractors and other implements that form part of farm mechani-
zation are provided commercially by the private sector. However, particularly
in less developed or more remote areas, the provision of inputs is handled,
often poorly, by state enterprises and sometimes by cooperatives. It is
especially in these regions that rural development projects have been intro-
duced, inter alia, to help alleviate the problems concerning the availability
of inputs. Nevertheless, the use of "improved" inputs is still concentrated
in the Southeast, South and Center of Brazil. Considerable technical scope
exists for expanding national use of such inputs in other regions to help
increase productivity.
1.30      Nationally, consumption of fertilizer has been 3.2 to 3.4 million
tons in recent years. Some 40% of nitrogen fertilizers and 70% of phosphoric
components are domestically produced in plants of different sizes and techno-
logy. All potassium fertilizer is imported. Between 1970 and 1978, fertilizer
consumption expanded at a rate of 16% per year. Six crops accounted for
approximately 75% of total fertilizer consumption from 1975 to 1977, soybeans
being the main user, absorbing 21% of the total, followed by sugarcane,
wheat, coffee, rice and maize. In the mid-1970s, Brazil directly subsidized
farmers' purchase of fertilizer, but, because of the high cost to the Govern-
ment, and the decline in the world price of fertilizers, the direct subsidy
was eliminated as of January 1977 (agricultural credit subsidies, however,
represent a continued indirect subsidy). Although recent agricultural produc-
tion increases have been highest among crops receiving the highest fertilizer
applications, these production increases have been achieved not only with
yield increases but also with important increases in the area cultivated.
There is scattered evidence that overly generous subsidies have led to some
uneconomic levels of fertilizer application. Partly as a result of this,



- 10 -
EMBRAPA's research on basic food commodities (rice, beans, maize, and cassava)
has included efforts to select varieties which can be productive at low rates
of fertilizer application. Also, the greater application of nitrogen fixing
bacteria is being investigated to reduce the need for expensive, manufactured
nitrogenous fertilizers.
1.31      The provision and availability of inputs other than fertilizer have
been subject to various Government initiatives. A National Program for
Agricultural Lime (PROCAL) has been created to promote increased availability
of crushed limestone to farmers. The cerrados soils require substantial quan-
tities of lime to counteract their naturally high acidity. It is estimated
that some 15 million tons of limestone are now required annually in Brazilian
agriculture.
1.32      With respect to improved seed, experience in Brazil varies consider-
ably by region and crop--availabilities and use being substantially lower in
the less developed Northeast, Northwest and North and for basic food crops.
Improved seed for several crops is currently produced in Brazil, both by
private firms and public or semi-public agencies. In 1967 a National Seed
Improvement Plan (PLANASEM) was put into operation under the auspices of the
Ministry of Agriculture.  The part of the plan designed to help develop seed
production capacity in the South and Southeast, with investments of some
US$25 million during 1973 to 1975, was partly financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank. Seed improvement programs for the North, Northeast and
Center-West are much less advanced. EMBRAPA, through the Service for the
Production of Basic Seed (SPSB), has taken on a vital role in the production,
processing, storage and distribution of improved seeds. SPSB is expanding both
quantities and kinds of basic seed to both private and public sector commercial
producers of certified seed. Meeting the basic seed needs (for subsequent multi-
plication into commercial improved seeds) in the North, Northeast and Center-West
regions will be a facet of the proposed research project. In particular, more
intensive development and use of improved seeds in crops such as maize and
beans should constitute an important source of agricultural growth. Given the
large amount of land committed to these two crops (12 to 14 million ha), even
a modest increase in yields would produce an important aggregate increase in
food supply.
1.33      With respect to pesticide use and availability, it is estimated
that total use of agricultural pesticides in Brazil in 1979 was 86,200 tons
(principal agent). From 1975 to 1978, pesticide use gradually increased,
but, in response to the need to reduce imports, Brazil has established several
agro-chemical processing plants and EMBRAPA has been concentrating its plant
protection research in the important areas of biological control and disease
resistance through breeding and the study of ecological factors as a means of
reducing the need for pesticide use. Some important advances have already
been made in this regard for cotton, beans, rice and pasture crops.
1.34      As to mechanization, the stock of tractors in Brazil grew approxi-
mately 11% per year between 1960 and 1977 and the use of mechanical power in
agriculture increased at a still faster rate, inasmuch as the average size and
horsepower of tractors has also grown. Farm equipment is manufactured in



- 11 -
Brazil mainly by eight multi-national and two national firms. During 1978,
about 44,500 four-wheel tractors were produced, slightly less than 1975
production. Recently, especially for less developed parts of Brazil, there
has been increased interest in animal traction for the small-scale farmer.
Emphasis on this aspect of efficiency improvement and energy conservation has
been a feature of many of the recent integrated rural development projects.
The research and extension services (EMBRAPA and EMBRATER) have collaborated
in setting up demonstration plots to illustrate the use of draft animals and
in developing suitable but simple farm machinery. The project would also be
of direct assistance in providing further inputs for the development of appro-
priate technology in this important area of simple machinery to assist the
small-scale farmer.
Regional Development Programs
1.35      Brazil has also initiated several important regional development
programs largely devoted to agriculture. These programs provide incentives
for agricultural development of frontier regions and of chronically low income
areas. Among the largest of these regional development programs initiated
over the last several years are the Development Program for the Integrated Areas
in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), the Development Program for the Integrated
Areas of Amazonia (POLAMAZONIA), and the Development Program for the Integrated
Central Areas (POLOCENTRO).
1.36      POLONORDESTE is aimed largely at increasing the agricultural
productivity and standards of living of the rural poor in priority areas of
the Northeast through the integrated provision of agricultural services and
social and physical infrastructure. The POLAMAZONIA program was created to
help coordinate investment for agricultural and mineral development in selected
areas of the Amazon basin. SUDAM, the Government's development agency for the
North, offers fiscal incentives for companies and individuals to invest in
agricultural production in the Amazon.
1.37      POLOCENTRO is the program for the development of the cerrados.  Much
of Brazil's potential agricultural growth over the next several years will
come from opening up this region. POLOCENTRO has helped support the required
agricultural research, rural electrification, technical assistance to farmers,
storage and road construction. Efforts are being directed at expanding rice,
wheat, and livestock production in the 15% of Brazil's surface area covered by
cerrados, chiefly in the Center-West and Northwest. During the last three
years, POLOCENTRO is said to have helped bring some 2.4 million ha of cerrado
land into agricultural production, including 970,000 ha for crops, 963,000 ha
for pastures and 440,000 ha for afforestation.
1.38      The further settlement and rational and equitable development of
the Northwest is currently one of the high priorities of the Federal Government.
To this end, a new program called the Northwest Brazil Integrated Development
Program (POLONOROESTE) is currently being established for the region.
POLONOROESTE is intended to help bring order to the rapid, spontaneous migra-
tory flow to the Northwest; to help increase the productivity, incomes and
social welfare of the region's present and future population; and to minimize



- 12 -
the possible negative effects of development on the region's ecology and its
native population. 1/ All of the special regional development programs,
whether dealing with the opening up of new lands or the rehabilitation of old
lands, have an equally pressing need for the development of appropriate
production technology through well-planned research programs.
D. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.39      The Bank has so far made 19 loans, totalling US$712.6 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting
to US$119.2 million, for agro-industries; two, totalling US$60.5 million, for
livestock development; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; one for
US$40 million for agricultural research; one for US$100 million to improve
agricultural extension services; and 12, totalling US$374.7 million, for
various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, 10 of which
are located in the Northeast. In addition, there have been three loans total-
ling US$196.0 million for fertilizer production; a loan of US$19.0 million for
a nutrition research and development project; a loan of US$32.0 million for a
Northeast basic education project; and two loans, totalling US$165.0 million,
for secondary and feeder roads. Four additional agricultural and rural
development operations are currently at a relatively advanced state of prepara-
tion: two rural development projects and an agricultural credit project in
the Northeast, and a Northwest regional development project. Additional agri-
cultural and rural development projects are also under consideration for
possible future Bank financing. Completion and Project Performance Audit
Reports have been issued for the grain storage and the two livestock develop-
ment projects. In each of these three projects, significant differences
developed between the Government and the Bank regarding interest rate policy,
leading to some cancellation and/or early repayments of the loans. The
progress to date of the first agricultural research project is discussed
in paragraphs 2.18 to 2.20.
1/   Further details concerning the scope of this new regional development
program are to be found in "The Integrated Development of Brazil's
Northwest Frontier," Report No. 3042a-BR, of December 23, 1980.



- 13 -
II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A. EMBRAPA - The Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation
Background
2.01      The development of agricultural research services in Brazil can
be viewed in three main periods, the first extending from the late 19th
century to the mid-1940s. Plantation agriculture was at its peak, but there
was no defined farm policy to provide clear research objectives at the
federal level. Research efforts were largely confined to the major export
crops such as coffee, cacao and sugar, and agricultural development emphasis
was clearly on expanding the agricultural frontiers rather than increasing
yields. This period ended as industrialization began to play a much more
important role in economic policy. The second period went from the mid-1940s
to the early 1960s when economic expansion of the industrial base was a clear
government priority, with agriculture receiving relatively less support,
particularly for research. With erratic or reduced support for what were
mainly semi-autonomous research institutions, at both the federal and state
levels, several experiment stations went out of existence entirely and research
activity was severely curtailed at others.
2.02      The third period, which began in the early 1960s and continues to
the present, is characterized by a broader understanding of the role of
agriculture in economic development and by the recognition that expansion
of the agricultural frontier alone cannot continue to meet the demands of
both domestic and foreign markets and that higher productivity must be part
of agricultural policy and goals. In 1962, the Ministry of Agriculture was
reorganized and rural universities became autonomous. As a result, Government-
sponsored agricultural education and research were no longer subordinate to a
single administration. The old National Center for Agricultural Education
and Research was disbanded and its research duties taken over by the Ministry's
Department of Agricultural Research and Experimentation (DPEA). In 1970, the
Department absorbed three more institutes and was moved from Rio to Brasilia.
The name was changed to Office of Research and Experimentation, but in 1971 it
became the National Department for Agricultural Research (DNPEA). This
Department had six divisions and nine regional research institutes, comprising
some 230 largely independent research units which were operated and funded by
various federal and state agencies.
Establishment of EMBRAPA
2.03      In 1972, a Government group was formed to study agricultural policy
and propose institutional reforms, and, as a result of its recommendations,
EMBRAPA was organized late that same year. EMBRAPA started operations on
April 26, 1973. It is a public sector corporation attached to the Ministry of
Agriculture, but with a large degree of financial and administrative autonomy.
The findings of the Government study group had shown that the main problems of
the old (DNPEA) system had been the lack of: sustained financial support for
research; a cohesive national program which reflected Government policy for



- 14 -
the sector; clearly defined production-oriented crop/livestock research
programs to answer the specific needs of the producer; and, because of poor
training and low salaries, adequate productivity of scientific staff. As a
result, the national agricultural extension system had inadequate or inappro-
priate technology to offer.
2.04      The statutes of EMBRAPA are contained in Law Number 5,851 of
December 7, 1972, which outlines as the agency's main functions:
(a)  to direct, control and execute agricultural research activities
for the purpose of producing new technology for the development
of national agricultural production;
(b)  to assist the federal executive branch and its entities in
technical and administrative matters related to the agricultural
sector;
(c)  to stimulate and promote the decentralization of research
activiti.es to the benefit of state and local interests;
(d)  to provide technical coordination of research projects, the
execution of which involves other federal agencies;
(e) to mainl:ain close contact and coordination with EMBRATER and
to contribute to the effective diffusion of research results
and technology which is the responsibility of EMBRATER; and
(f)  to plan, program and budget research activities to reflect the
guidelinies and policies established by the National Commission
for Agricultural Research, Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
(COMPATER), and to channel federal funding to those activities.
In relation to (f) above, it is essential that EMBRAPA also exercise close
coordination, through frequent consultation, with the National Council for
Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq). This council is directly
administered and Einanced by the Federal Secretariat of Planning. It is
responsible for the coordination of all Government-funded scientific and
technological endeavor and channels federal funding to three main scientific
institutes. From a biological standpoint, the most important of these is the
National Institute of Research for Amazonia (INPA). EMBRAPA,-through its
regional station at Belem, Para, collaborates with INPA on research programs
such as natural resource inventories of the region, ecology in relation to
agricultural development, and selection of vegetable varieties adapted to
the humid tropics.
2.05      EMBRAPA's agricultural research program is dictated by Government
policy to assure development of technology to increase agricultural production
and productivity and income of farmers. These policies are currently reflected
in the Third Basic Plan for the Development of Science and Technology (1980-85)
published by the Planning Secretariat of the Presidency (SEPLAN). EMBRAPA
executes research directly and also coordinates and helps fund the overall
national agricultural research program which involves collaboration by
many public and private sector institutions.



- 15 -
Organization
2.06      EMBRAPA, headquartered in Brasilia, is headed by a Board of Directors
consisting of the President and three Executive Directors, all competent and
experienced research managers. The Board of Directors is supported by several
staff advisory units and by nine departments. The advisory units include the
Technical and Administrative Advisory Office, the Advisory Office for
International Cooperation, the Legal Advisory Office and a Fiscal Advisory
Office. The nine departments include:
(a) Department of Analysis and Evaluation;
(b)  Department of Program Planning and Budgeting;
(c)  Department of Science and Technology;
(d)  Department of Diffusion of Technology;
(e)  Department of Information and Documentation;
(f)  Department of Human Resources;
(g)  Department of Experimental Design and Statistics;
(h)  Department of Accounting; and
(i)  Department of General Administration and Procurement.
An organization chart is provided in Annex 3, Chart 1. The overall structure
of EMBRAPA, which has evolved over the last several years as EMBRAPA gained
experience, is sound. Execution arrangements for the proposed project are
detailed in Chapter IV. As EMBRAPA's program expands with the execution
of the proposed project, the continued suitability of organizational
arrangements would be reviewed (para 4.01).
2.07      The national research station network comprises EMBRAPA's three
regional centers, 11 national centers for commodity research and 18 state/
territory level research centers (UEPAE/UEPAT). 1/ In addition, there are
11 semi-autonomous research companies (UEP) which are linked to the state
secretariats of agriculture and, finally, three completely autonomous state-
owned research systems. The regional or area research centers concentrate on
the specific problems of three distinct agro-ecological areas, i.e., the
Campos Cerrados of the Center-West, the arid and semi-arid tropics found in
the Northeast, and the humid tropics of the North and Northwest. Their
research work focuses on resource evaluation, resource utilization, and
production systems. In carrying out research in the last two areas, the
stations collaborate in commodity-oriented research developed at the commodity
centers. The commodity research centers cover key commodities for the
domestic food and foreign commodity markets, including: cotton; beans and
rice; goats and sheep; beef cattle; dairy cattle; cassava and fruits; maize
1/   Names and locations provided in Annex 3, Table 6.



- 16 -
and sorghum; rubber; soybeans; wheat; swine and poultry. The research
methodology used is that of multidisciplinary teams which work exclusively
on research related to production systems for the specific commodity. The
state-territory level research stations (either managed by EMBRAPA or the
semi-autonomous state stations) are principally engaged in adaptive research,
at the farmer/producer level, on a small number of commodities of economic
importance in their area of influence. EMBRAPA's role with the three autono-
mous state integrated research institutions (Sao Paulo, Parana, Rio Grande do
Sul) is much less direct and basically comprises an exchange of information of
mutual interest between the entities involved (e.g., on citrus research,
mainly done in Sao F'aulo, and sheep research programs, concentrated in Rio
Grande do Sul).
2.08      In addition to operating the research stations described above,
EMBRAPA operates four National Research Service Centers. These comprise the
Center for Genetic Rlesources; the Center for Agriculture and Food Technology;
the (Center) Service for Production of Basic Seed; and the National Service
for Soil Surveys and Soil Conservation.
Program
2.09      Between 1976 and 1980, the agricultural research capacity of EMBRAPA
and its affiliated network increased substantially, and the number of research
projects implemented rose from 1,143 in 1976 to 2,990 in 1980. The projects
for 1980 were distributed among the major physiographic regions of the country
as follows: North, 185; Northeast, 777; Southeast, 775; South, 708; and
Center-West, 545.
2.10      These projects were all part of the national agricultural research
program, PRONAPA, which is coordinated by EMBRAPA. A description of the
national research program is published annually and is the result of an annual
planning exercise coordinated by EMBRAPA. Scientists in the public and private
sector institutions engaged in agricultural research, and representatives of
agencies dealing with cooperatives, agricultural credit, extension, and
regional development programs are invited to participate in the exercise.
Although, in theory, this should ensure adequate inputs from all interested
parties for research planning, the coordinating and planning procedures are
not yet fully developed.
2.11      In late 1979, EMBRAPA carried out a comprehensive review of its
methodology for the planning and evaluating of the national agricultural research
program. A revised system has been developed (paras 4.04 to 4.06) involving a
more iterative programing model which places greater emphasis on decision-
making at lower levels in the research system and on providing more systematic
and frequent feedback between the administrative and research implementation
levels. The decision to strengthen program planning reflects the rapidly
growing scientific and operational capacity within EMBRAPA and highlights the
need to adapt the administrative model to these expanded capabilities. However,
given the size and complexity of the national research program and the multi-
plicity of the demands on it, fully efficient implementation of the new plan-
ning procedures will not be without difficulties. The proposed second research
project and the introduction of new monitoring and evaluation systems, which



- 17 -
it will help to develop, places special emphasis on the need to preserve some
flexibility in the organizational structure of EMBRAPA so as to facilitate
resolution of these administrative problems as they emerge.
Staff
2.12      As of January 1981, the total EMBRAPA staff working on the national
agricultural research program was 6,739. Of this number, 23% are degree-level
technical staff, of whom 10% are Ph.D.s, 58% Masters and 32% Bachelors. A
further 49% of the total staff were laboratory and field assistants and 28%
were general administrative staff. On a regional basis, staff were divided as
follows: North, 12%; Northeast, 19%; Center-West, 20%; South, 17%; Southeast,
20%; and 12% at EMBRAPA Headquarters, Brasilia (Annex 3, Table 7). Partly as
a result of the training provided under the first Agricultural Research
Project, EMBRAPA now has a generally competent staff which includes a number
of internationally recognized scientists. Nonetheless, since many of the
staff are young, there is a continuing need for further training and for
guidance from senior scientists.
Finances
2.13      The annual budget of EMBRAPA has risen rather substantially from
some US$24.8 million equivalent in 1974 to about US$150 million in 1980. 1/
EMBRAPA's development plans for 1977 to 1981 called for substantial expendi-
tures based on two regional projects: an agricultural research project partly
financed by the Bank (Loan 1249-BR of US$40.0 million), which includes a total
of 12 research programs concentrated in the North, Northeast and Center-West,
and a project partly financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (loan of
US$66.4 million) for research programs, mainly in the Center-South (including
the Southeast and South, but excluding cerrados areas). Aside from external
financing, EMBRAPA receives its funding mainly from the general budget of the
Federal Government but also partly from the various regional development
programs. Its budget is subject to the annual budgeting procedures of the
Federal Government. Details of the sources and applications of EMBRAPA funds
for the past several years are given in Annex 3, Table 8.
B. Interactions with Other Agricultural Institutions
2.14      Research is only part of a continuum that originates with an agri-
cultural problem, the solution of which must ultimately be put into practice
by the farmer. EMBRAPA, therefore, must work closely with the numerous other
organizations (paras 1.24 to 1.38) also concerned with accelerating agricul-
tural development, including specifically the organizations which provide
education, extension, inputs, credit, marketing, and the like, as well as
those which coordinate the execution of various regional development and
national commodity-oriented production programs.
1/   Does not include complementary state funding for state research companies,
accurate aggregate data on which are not available.



- 18 -
2.15      Perhaps the most crucial institutional linkage is with the extension
service, which can serve as a key vehicle in both appropriate definition of
research plans (to be more responsive to farmer needs) and the dissemination
of research results. Coordination between EMBRAPA and EMBRATER is needed in:
indicating priorities for specific production problems which are to be chosen
for investigation; executing the specific research activities involved;
preparing, testing and disseminating new technology; and in evaluating results
in the field with "feed-back" information from farmers.
2.16      One of the more "formal" means through which the cooperation between
EMBRAPA and EMBRAIER has so far evolved is the joint development of recommended
"packages" for improving production systems for a commodity or group of
commodities (Annex 3, Table 9). This mechanism for dissemination of informa-
tion obtained at the research level involves collaboration of research and
extension staff as well as farmers. The research staff input usually comes
from the national commodity center chiefly involved and the local research
station at the state level. The collaboration extends from the preparation of
the experiment layout to the review and publication of the results in a tech-
nical bulletin. The main objective is to speed up adoption of new technology
at the farm level and to keep production practices as current as possible with
research results. Unfortunately, this formal mechanism has in some circum-
stances not functioned with the desired depth or with real effectiveness. In
some cases, the more informal exchanges between the two agencies at the
federal level and the day-to-day contacts developed in executing various
programs at the state and local level have proven more important. Even these
informal arrangements (which include extensionist and farmer participation in
experiments), however, could benefit considerably from further strengthening.
Such strengthening requires action in two major areas in both agencies:
firstly, there is a need to instill among all level of staff and management
an appreciation of the need for collaboration between agencies and benefits
which can come from this. Secondly, there is a need to formalize the system-
atic interchange of views in research programing, monitoring and evaluation.
This form of collaboration would be reinforced under the proposed project
(paras 4.04 to 4.06; 4.24 and 4.25).
2.17      In the field of international technical and scientific cooperation,
EMBRAPA has developed various programs. Among international programs, the
activities carried out in cooperation with the Inter-American Institute for
Agricultural Sciences (IICA); United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
(FAO); International Center for the Improvement of Maize and Wheat (CIMMYT,
Mexico); International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT, Colombia; and
IITA, Nigeria); International Rice Research Institute (IRRI, the Philippines);
and the International Potato Center (CIP, Peru) and ICRISAT (India) are noteworthy.
Bilateral cooperation includes agreements with the Federal Republic of Germany,
the United States, Japan, Canada and France. EMBRAPA also provides technical
assistance in soil, analysis to Guinea Bissau and Cape Verde. EMBRAPA benefits
from the international arrangements through such things as: specialized
technical staff (I:ITA); dairy cattle breeding, pasture improvement and wheat
research specialists (FAO); exchange of wheat, potato and rice germplasm materials
(CIMMYT, IRRI, CIIP and CIAT); and cooperative research planning and programing
for field research in Brazil (CIAT and IITA). The bilateral agreements have
included: the services of specialists on soil management and conservation



- 19 -
(Federal Republic of Germany); provision of nitrogen fixation technology (USA);
ecology and pedology studies (Japan); and coconut and oil palm technology
exchange, among others, from France.
C. Status of Agricultural Research I Project
2.18      The project, partially financed by a US$40 million loan (1249-BR)
in 1976, has a total cost of US$189 million. As of January 1981, about 60%
of the project was completed. Achievements to date include substantial
completion of research facilities at 21 of the 25 research stations being
financed under the project. Most of the laboratory and library facilities at
these stations have also been provided. Incremental research staff at all
stations has been provided ahead of original schedules. The staff training
program has had approximately 1,400 staff participants to date, with short-term
courses representing 70% of that number. A total of 400 researchers have
received post-graduate training in 30 different disciplines, with major emphasis
on plant and animal genetics, veterinary medicine, animal husbandry, plant
pathology and entomology. Approximately 40 manyears of consultancy services
have either been provided, or are committed, under the project. Research
programs on farming systems and the selected commodities included in the
project have begun to produce promising results, particularly in the selection
of higher yielding varieties of annual crops and the development of new produc-
tion systems for crops such as rice, beans, maize and cassava. Promising
results have also been achieved in the reduction of production costs through
selection for disease resistance and biological pest control.
2.19      The major implementation problems have been:
(a)  initial delays in making the required arrangements for
contracting consultants and operating fellowship training and
study programs;
(b)  significant changes in administrative and some technical staff
when the new (federal) administration took office in March 1979;
(c)  temporary restrictions on engaging new staff during a period
(part of 1978/79) of federal elections; and
(d)  slow initial development of the administrative capability within
EMBRAPA required to implement the project and to plan and evaluate
adequately its research programs.
As a result of these problems, project completion is expected by about December
1982, roughly one year behind the original schedule. This delay was partly
exacerbated by general public sector restrictions in 1980 on budget expansion
and on the hiring of staff, implementation of (external) training programs and
importation of equipment.



- 20 -
2.20      Despite the problems described above and the effects of the general
public sector "belt-tightening" in 1980, there has been considerable advance-
ment in EMBRAPA's technical capacity during the past three years. As noted
above, the regional commodity and state-level experiment stations are now
better equipped and staffed to carry out projects in applied and adaptive
research based upon regional and local requirements. Further improvements
which would be addressed more sharply in the second project would include:
improved linkages with the extension service to ensure that research findings
do reach the producers promptly; strengthened administrative oversight and
planning through improved monitoring and evaluation of research efforts and
better planning more routinely and systematically involving field researchers
and research users; and reformed research administrative arrangements with,
among other things, better clarification of research responsibilities at all
administrative levels.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
Origin
3.01      The proposed Agricultural Research II Project constitutes a contin-
uation of the Bank's support for agricultural research in Brazil.  Beginning
in 1973, with the identification and initiation of preparation of the first
research project, the Bank assisted EMBRAPA in formulating a national research
program involving commodity-oriented research to be conducted by multi-
disciplinary teams of researchers. In addition, strategies were developed to
complement this with farming systems research in three general agro-ecological
zones: the Humid Tropics, the Semi-Arid Tropics and the "Campos Cerrados."
The Agricultural Research I Project was appraised in 1975, and the Bank's
loan became effective in 1976.
3.02      In 1973, as execution proceeded on the first project (which focused
on only a selected set of initially manageable research programs) and EMBRAPA's
research capacity became more firmly established, EMBRAPA began preparation of
a follow-up project. The intention was to further strengthen Brazil's agricul-
tural research capability at both federal and state levels to respond to new
agricultural development priorities and plans (e.g., development of alternative
sources of energy), and to broaden the scope of research programs in the North,
Northeast and Center-West regions. Also, the second project would support
efforts to increase the participation of state research companies, to expand
contract research, and to decentralize the management of EMBRAPA's research
program (Chapter IV). Whereas the first project included considerable physical
infrastructure and was concerned primarily with the initial phases of institution
building, the second project (although containing infrastructure) would be
relatively more concentrated on expanding the institution's technical capacity
to solve the production farming system problems existing at the farm level.



- 21 -
3.03      The Government of Brazil formally requested Bank assistance for
the Agricultural Research II Project in a letter from the Minister of
Agriculture dated October 10, 1979. In May 1980, EMBRAPA engaged consultants
to assist in the final stages of project preparation. The resulting proposal,
which was submitted by EMBRAPA in early July 1980, served as the basis for
project appraisal, which took place during August/September 1980.
3.04      The primary objective of the proposed project would be to further
increase the capacity of Brazil's designated national agricultural research
agency (EMBRAPA) to conduct sound agricultural research. In pursuit of this
objective, the project would strengthen existing mechanisms and support new
mechanisms which aim to ensure that the research conducted is appropriate to
the problems of the producers and that research findings reach farmers
promptly. The project has been formulated in response to, and in support of,
current government priorities for the agricultural sector. The proposed
project would complement existing research programs and help increase effi-
ciency and utilization of research facilities established under the first
project. The project would thus indirectly strengthen efforts towards rural
development by increasing the stock of appropriate new technologies and,
wherever possible, by hastening their dissemination to producers through
the extension service.
Project Strategy
3.05      The strategy by which the project objectives would be achieved
comprises the following elements:
(a)  expanded support for the farming systems research conducted
from the three regional research stations;
(b)  expanded support for research on rice, beans and rubber--
commodities which were also assisted in the first project;
(c)  support for research on six commodities and one service not
included under the first project (vegetables, fruit, coconuts,
oil palm, babassu, wood products and basic seeds);
(d)  support for new, high priority, national programs for animal
health, bioenergy, food technology and agricultural engineering;
(e)  support for the strengthening of procedures and mechanisms
to help improve:
(i) research planning and programing; and
(ii) research linkages with extension and rural development
efforts;
(f) expanded support for the information and documentation system
to serve EMBRAPA's researchers and research users; and
(g) support for new monitoring and evaluation systems.



- 22 -
As noted above, several of the project activities would be continuations or
expansions of the first project, but other activities would represent completely
new areas of Bank ;support for the EMBRAPA program. Hence, there would be some
overlap in the execution periods of the two projects.
B. Detailed Features 1/
Project Area
3.06      EMBRAPA operates throughout Brazil and consequently the project
would not be confined to a specific project area. Nonetheless, most of the
research programs included in the project have particular relevance to the
problems of the less well developed Northeast, North and Center-West parts
of Brazil. It is expected that some 66% of project costs would be invested in
these three priority regions.
Project Components
3.07      The project would have the following components and types of
expenditure:
(a) research development, including:
(i) civil works at 31 major locations (eight of which were not
included in the first project), comprising mainly ancillary
buildings such as greenhouses, storage buildings, laboratories,
office buildings and some staff housing in more remote areas;
in addition, there would be research farm development, including
an irrigated seed production unit (US$24.5 million); 2/
(ii)  equipment, comprising mainly scientific instruments;
laboratory and office equipment; vehicles; and farm implements
(US$17.0 million); 2/
(iii) library and documentation services (for various research
facilities both within and outside the EMBRAPA system),
comprising mainly journals, periodicals and reference books,
but also including some microfilm equipment (US$8.7 million); 2/
and
1/   Detailed cost figures for the various research programs are shown in
Annex 3, Table 10 and full descriptions of the various research programs
are provided in the respective Staff Working Papers (Annex 4, C) available
in the Project File.
2/   Base costs, excluding contingencies.  Details of the above estimates
are provided in Annex 3, Table 11.



- 23 -
(iv) purchase (not eligible for Bank disbursements) of a small amount
of additional land for research stations (US$0.4 million); 1/
(b) technical assistance and training, comprising about 156 manyears
of consultant services, postgraduate degree training for 205
staff, and short-term fellowships for a further 342 staff
(US$33.4 million); 2/ and
(c) incremental operating costs for a five-year period, comprising the
salaries and associated costs of some 224 incremental scientists and
about 1,100 support staff, in addition to the incremental operating
costs for vehicles, equipment and facilities included in the project
(US$31.0 million). 2/
The project would be implemented over a five-year period, beginning in 1981
except for technical assistance and training, which would require about six
years.
Research Programs for Farming Systems
3.08      EMBRAPA's research system utilizes a network of commodity-specific
research centers scattered throughout the country and three regional centers
which concentrate on farming system research specific to the three broad
agroecological regions of the North (humid tropics), Northeast (arid and semi-
arid tropics), and the Center-West (campos cerrados or savannah). The three
regional centers have been operating only for the last four years during which
time they have evolved a common strategy for farming systems research. This
strategy follows three phases. The first phase is an inventory and partial
evaluation of the available natural and socio-economic resources of the region
and includes a study of the farming systems currently in use in each region.
The second phase consists of a more detailed evaluation of how the available
resources can be best utilized. In this phase, the production potential of
a range of crops and livestock activities in the region is examined through
conventional research which studies the responses to supplementation of the
available resources and the introduction of new genetic material. This phase
generally uses the research findings of the commodity centers as a starting
point.   The third and final phase represents an attempt to bring together the
results of the second phase into coherent farming systems which permit greater
productivity from the available resources or which maximize the net returns
from the addition of supplementary resources while maintaining acceptable
levels of income stability, risk, environmental stability, and various other
1/   The locations would be near Teresina (PI), Altamira (PA), Porto Velho (RO)
and Manaus (AM).
2/   Base costs, excluding contingencies.  Details of the above estimates
are provided in Annex 3, Table 11.



- 2 4- 
ncn-monetary objectives. Iaken overall, there is a high degree of interdepen-
dence between the farming systems research and the commodity-specific research
and the results of both levels of research are used t-o re-direct research
activities at both levels. By its nature, farming systems research requires
strong and continuing linkages with farming communities and with those agencies
responsible for the development of agriculture in the various regions. The
project's support for farming systems research would aim to strengthen such
linkages through provision of funds to facilitate participation of research
users in research planning exercises and through increased geographical dis-
persion of research activities throughout each region. The major features
cf the farming systems research for each region are outlined below.
3.09      Program for the Campos Cerrados.  This region, comprising some
180 million ha of largely uplard savannahs, represents the major reserve for
immediate expansion of Brazil's agricul.tural area since it includes an esti-
mated 50 million ha of underutilized arable land, The major research goals
to be pursued with project assistance include: development of low cost soil
management practices designed to raise productivity and reduce erosion risks
on the generally highly acidic, relatively infertile soils which commonly
contain high levels of aluminum; development of improved systems to utilize
available rainfall, including the use of supplementary irrigation to overcome
intra-seasonal moisture deficits; and introduction of new crops and livestock
activities to raise incomes and to improve the distribution of labor demand
throughout the year.
3.10      Program for the Arid and Semi-Arid Tropics.  This region, comprising
some 115 million ha, accounts for about 75% of the Northeast of Brazil. Unlike
the cerrados, most of the land with agricultural or pastoral potential is
already settled and the region has Brazil's highest concentration of rural
poor. While the soils in the region are generally more fertile than those of
the cerrados or the humid tropics, the dry climate with frequent and severe
droughts, severely limits the region's development potential. The major
research goals which would be pursued with project assistance include:
demarcation of homogeneous agro-ecological zones throughout the region to
assist in the design of research activities and to simplify the basis for
recommendation for new practices; development of inter-cropping systems which
make better use of available moisture and which reduce risk through use of new
genetic materials, improved soil management practices to aid in situ moisture
storage; development of water-harvesting systems for supplementary irrigation;
development of improved soil and water management practices for irrigated
areas including seasonally flooded river banks; and development of more
productive livestock systems through pasture improvement, supplementary
feeding and integration with cropping systems.
3.11      Program for the Humid Tropics.  This region, comprising some
440 million ha, represents about 60% of the area of Brazil but contains only
about 6% of its  rural population.  More than three-quarters of the region
comprise tropical rain forests which constitute a fragile but globally impor-
tant ecosystem. The soils of the region are heterogeneous but commonly highly
acid, infertile and shallow. Knowledge of the region's resources remain
inadequate, but among the areas with apparent agricultural potential, some
19 million ha of flood plains are the most important. The major research



- 25 -
goals to be pursued with assistance from the project include: development of
soil and water management practices, and introduction of new crops which would
permit more productive utilization of the flood plains by small-scale producers;
improvement in the production of existing crops such as Brazil nuts, rice,
jute, pepper, and guarana (Paulinia cupana) through breeding and management
practices; improvement in productivity of water buffalo through breeding,
nutrition and management; and further documentation of the natural resources
of the region to permit introduction of new farming systems which are compa-
tible with the resources and fragile ecology.
The National Commodity Research Programs
3.12      Rice.  Rice is currently planted on an estimated 6.6 million ha, of
which about 12% is irrigated and the remaining 88% is upland rice. The 1980/81
production is estimated at 9.7 million tons. It is Brazil's third most impor-
tant crop in terms of area, after maize and soybeans. Rice production
fluctuates considerably between years reflecting seasonal variations in the
yield of the predominantly rainfed rice. The project would assist research
efforts to reduce this production variability through two approaches. The
first would involve an expansion of both the area and yield of irrigated rice
by developing systems for cultivation of rice in flood plains and in new areas
and by improving management practices and genetic material. The second
approach would involve attempts to reduce yield variability in rainfed rice by
identifying areas suited to rice cultivation by selecting genetic material
with resistance to drought and to pests and diseases, and by selecting those
rice varieties able to provide a reasonable yield under the low input system
where rice is used as a pioneer crop in opening up new land.
3.13      Beans.  Beans are cultivated on about 5 million ha, making it the
fourth largest crop in terms of area in Brazil. Some 90% of the beans are
intercropped with other crops, principally maize, cotton and cassava, and it
is primarily a small-scale farmer's crop. The research program would aim to
increase yields and area cultivated, including an expansion of the monoculture
of beans. Specific research efforts would include development of higher
yielding bean varieties with greater insect resistance and of varieties
capable of yielding well with low levels of nutrition, selection of varieties
and development of systems for producing a third or out-of-season crop,
selection of Rhizobia with higher nitrogen fixing ability, and development
of green manuring systems.
3.14      Vegetables.  Vegetable production, particularly in the Center-West
and North, is relatively new and research even more recent. Major problems
in the priority areas of the project are adaptation of varieties suitable
for cerrados soils or for the growing conditions of the humid tropics. The
thrust of the research programs is therefore on variety selection, genetic
improvement and comparative varietal trials in regions selected for vegetable
cultivation close to major urban areas. Sixteen vegetable crops would be
investigated under the project.
3.15      Tropical Fruits.  Most of the states of the Northeast (but
particularly Paraiba, Bahia, and Ceara have a large yet underutilized
potential for production of banana, pineapple and mango for both fresh



- 26 -
consumption and for processing. Pineapple especially has good potential for
export of the freshL fruit. The major constraints to increased production,
however, are: lack of standardization of varieties acceptable to domestic
and export markets; poorly defined fruit quality standards, weak marketing
institutions, and lack of appropriate production systems. The main objectives
of the research program proposed would therefore be to: (a) select and breed
improved varieties to meet broad market demands; (b) help define fruit quality
standards for both domestic and export markets; (c) assist in the study of
fresh and processed fruit supply and demand prospects; (d) develop economically
viable production systems with emphasis on plant breeding, pest and disease
control and improved cultural practices; and (e) study of packaging and
marketing systems adapted to the wide range of producers.
3.16      Coconuts.  Coconut is especially important in the Northeast, which
provides over 90% of Brazil's production and where agro-ecological conditions
are suited. The major thrust of the proposed research would be: variety
selection and breeding for production of high yielding hybrids; development of
disease and pest control methods; ecological zoning to help define optimal
production areas; improvement in harvesting, storage and marketing of nuts;
and economic analysis of improved farming systems, with particular emphasis on
the small-scale producer.
3.17      African Oil Palm.  Despite favorable growing conditions, Brazil has
not yet developed a significant oil palm industry. Total acreage planted is
estimated at only 40,000 ha, with 75% in the state of Bahia. Recently, the
fledgling palm oil industry has expanded in the state of Para, but the relative
immaturity of recent plantings means that yields are currently only 20% to 30%
of the estimated potential at maturity. Major development constraints appear
to include: (a) the heavy investment costs over three years before production
begins; and (b) the need for broader demonstration and dissemination of
information on production and processing technology. With the current interest
in mesocarp oil as a possible substitute for diesel fuel oil, and since the
characteristics and properties of the mesocarp and kernel oils produced are
also sufficiently versatile for a wide range of uses, oil palm development has
taken on increased importance. Objectives of the proposed research would be
to: (a) produce improved seed for commercial plantings; (b) help identify
suitable zones (micro-climates) for optimum yields; and (c) develop improved
production technology, including recommendations for fertilizer application
and pest control. Pilot-plant research on fruit processing would be included
to provide comparative yield data.
3.18      Babassu Palm. 1/  The native babassu palm exists widely in almost
pure stands in the Northeast and Center-W'est, particularly in the states of
Maranhao, Piaui and Northern Goias. The factors currently limiting cultivation
of the palm as a crop appear to be the low yield of oil per hectare (120 kg)
and a lack of knowrledge concerning growth characteristics, varietal differences
and optimal conditions for achieving higher yields of oil. Research would
1/   Babassu (Orbignia martiana and other species) is a native Brazilian palm
with individttal fruit egg-like in size and shape and whose kernel is rich
in oil.



- 27 -
include: a taxonomic study of the palm; selection of superior varieties;
study of appropriate cultural techniques; and a study of the socio-economic
impact on the current (extractive) babassu industry, including aspects of
small-scale industrialization.
3.19      Rubber.  Under Government-sponsored programs, Brazil plans to plant
250,000 ha of rubber from 1981 to 1985, with a further 250,000 in the 1986 to
1990 period. The target is self-sufficiency in natural rubber by the mid-1990s.
The major constraint to the plantation (cultivated) production of natural
rubber in Brazil has long been the ravages of the fungal disease known as
South American Leaf Blight (SALB). Research and a certain amount of field
testing have identified promising methods of avoiding the major impact of
this disease. These methods involve a combination of the following: (a) the
use of rubber clones which "winter" (replace their leaves) during the dry
season when the level of fungal spores is lowest; (b) the use of clones which
exhibit some physical properties (leaf toughness, etc.) which render them less
susceptible to the disease; (c) use of areas known as escape zones where envi-
ronmental conditions reduce fungal activity generally through a short but
severe dry period; (d) use of fungicides applied with specialized fogging
equipment or from aircraft. The proposed research program would aim to:
(a) develop criteria on which to judge whether any location is suitable for
rubber cultivation, i.e., is an escape zone; (b) systematically identify such
escape zones; (c) continue the search for clones exhibiting some resistance
to attack by SALB and to the stress of the dry period in the escape zone,
while having reasonable production characteristics; (d) study control methods
for other important fungal diseases and insect pests; (e) screen fungicides
for effectiveness; and (f) investigate alternative management systems for
maximizing long-term yields. In addition, farming systems which combine such
crops as rubber, coffee, and black pepper--principally designed for small-scale
farmer use--will be tested as a means of achieving economic levels of produc-
tion with a minimum of pest control measures.
3.20      Forestry. To help avoid the indiscriminate deforestation in the
Northwest and North and to further support the commencement of major refores-
tation efforts in the South, Southeast and Southwest, a strong research
program with the following aims would be initiated: (a) development of
improved agro-forestry techniques; (b) development of improved means to
utilize marginal lands for forestry and biomass production; and (c) develop-
ment of rational silviculture techniques to permit sustained development and
utilization of limited regions of the forests of the humid tropics (Amazonia).
The forestry programs would have a regional approach with emphasis on specific
experiments adapted to the agro-ecological and socio-economic patterns of each
region. Specific objectives would include: (a) reduction of soil erosion and
degradation of natural ground cover; (b) rational use of natural forest
resources to increase employment and raise rural income levels; (c) produc-
tion of low-cost energy substitutes; and (d) protection of the natural
environment.



- 28 -
Research Support Programs
3.21      Basic Seed. 1/  Of the seven major cereal, root and fiber crops in
Brazil, the national supply of basic seed can meet only some 12% of total
estimated demand. EMBRAPA's Service for the Production of Basic Seed (SPSB)
meets only 4% of that demand (1977/78 data). SPSB has 10 dispersed units for
production, processiing, storage and distribution of basic seeds. The proposed
program would strengthen the role of SPSB through the addition of three new
basic seed units designed to meet the heretofore largely neglected needs of
the North, Northeast and Center-West. Further, SPSB would be able to include
additional important crops in its program. To reduce the current shortages of
basic seed, which, in turn, severely affect the availability of improved seed
to the farmer, the project would provide for: expansion of the production,
processing and dist:ribution facilities for both basic and improved seeds;
strengthening of the technical and administrative capacity of SPSB; and the
production of new varieties. SPSB would promote some contract production of
basic seed through private growers and would also establish an irrigated seed
production unit which it would operate. After the basic seed is produced, the
agricultural extension services would be responsible for the selection and
supervision of comraercial growers to produce the certified and improved seed
for sale to farmers directly or through retail seed companies.
3.22      Agricultural Engineering.  The proposed research would aim to:
(a) help reduce the costs (especially energy) of mechanized agriculture
through the adaptation of more economical methods of cultivation; (b) develop
and/or adapt simple farm implements; and (c) increase the role of draft
animals. The research would involve: (a) studies to identify economically
viable opportunities for mechanization of agricultural practices, including
the use of simple on-farm storage devices; (b) evaluation of these proposals
at the appropriate regional or commodity research centers; and (c) transfer of
research data, including specifications and preliminary design, to equipment
manufacturers for ultimate commercial manufacture based upon producer accep-
tance. The research would, of necessity, require a high degree of innovation,
commencing with the farmer, extensionist and research agronomist and extending
to mechanical engineers for ultimate transfer of these field requirements into
new or modified implements.
3.23      Food Technology.  Although specific data concerning fresh food
losses during the harvest-to-market period are lacking, it is, nevertheless,
recognized that there are severe distortions and losses in the food production
to consumption chain of events, the end result being socially unacceptably
high prices for even basic foods. The proposed project would address especially
the processing and storage needs and alternatives in the North, Northeast and
Center-West. Research strategy would concentrate on problems related to the
major post-harvest problems, including storage, processing, packing, utiliza-
tion and marketing of the following basic food groups: (a) vegetable fats and
oils; (b) grains, pulses, roots and tubers; and (c) fruits and vegetables.
1/   "Basic seed" is the direct translation of the Brazilian "sementes basicas"
and corresponds to the term "foundation seed" used in English.



- 29 -
3.24      Bioenergy.  Brazil is placing high priority on the production of
biomass-based fuels as substitutes for those derived from imported petroleum.
Production of fuel ethanol from sugarcane and cassava is increasing rapidly,
and plans are underway to include other crops as raw materials (e.g., sweet
sorghum and sweet potatoes). The Government's PROALCOOL Program, which is
receiving Bank financing, is promoting this development. In addition,
vegetable-based oils are now expected to begin to substitute for diesel fuel,
and biogas production is also receiving attention. Improved biomass production
and processing technology is therefore urgently needed. EMBRAPA's proposed
bioenergy program, designed to complement research and development activities
sponsored by PROALCOOL, will focus on: helping to identify existing and
potential sources of biomass energy; trying to obtain bioenergy more effi-
ciently from selected resources; in the area of energy conservation, further
developing agricultural techniques such as zero cultivation, and use of
alternative methods for providing soil nitrogen and biological control of
insect pests and disease; expanding production-oriented research on feedstock
yields (sugarcane, sweet sorghum, cassava, sugar beets, and such) both in
supply of raw material and in potential alcohol content; evaluating ethanol
production from cellulose; developing and demonstrating biogas systems; and
testing the incorporation of solar energy systems and the like on farms.
3.25      Animal Health.  Despite very large and important livestock production
enterprises in Brazil, particularly for cattle, pigs, poultry, sheep and
goats, the levels of production from these herds are estimated to be only
about one-third of potential. A key factor in this is the lack of adequate
disease control, and of a strong diagnostic capability. The proposed project
would seek to strengthen EMBRAPA's capacity to identify and to research
avenues of control or prevention for some of the more economically significant
but little understood animal diseases by establishing: (a) a veterinary
medical research program; (b) a National Veterinary Research Laboratory and
two regional laboratories (Regional Veterinary Investigation Centers); and
(c) Health Service Units at the corresponding national research centers dealing
with production-oriented research programs for the major livestock groups.
The objective of these various program phases would be to supply the wide
range of knowledge on disease control required by veterinarians to provide
adequate disease control services to the livestock industry.
Information and Documentation
3.26      The Information and Documentation Department of EMBRAPA (DID) has
two major roles, one being the assimilation of information on technology
developments (from within Brazil and from abroad) and the other being the
maintenance of an adequate flow of technical information to the various groups
interested in utilizing the information centrally collected and catalogued in
EMBRAPA. To provide such services, DID must have the capacity to call on
technical information resource centers world wide; to maintain an adequate
resource information bank in Brasilia, coupled to international (FAO) and
national (Ministry of Agriculture) information banks; and, from such sources,
to compile the requisite bibliographical and control mechanisms to provide the
services required by researchers, extensionists and producers. Under the
Agricultural Research I Project (Loan 1249-BR), the essential network was set
up. The proposed project would reinforce that network as well as strengthen



- 30 -
through the training of personnel in new library and documentation techniques,
its capacity to meet the greatly increased demands for information services.
C. Project Costs
3.27      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$150.1 million, of which 40%, or about US$60 million, would be the foreign
exchange component. A summary of project costs is given in the following
table, with details in Annex 3, Table 12.
PROJECT COSTS
(US$ millions)
%         % of
Foreign    Baseline
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange        Cost
Development Costs
Civil Works                         16.42      4.10    20.52        20         17.8
Vehicles and Farm Equipment          4.88      1.63      6.51       25          5.7
Office and Laboratory Equipment    3.68        6.83    10.51        65          9.1
Library and Document Services        2.61      6.09      8.70       70          7.6
Research Farm Development            3.55      0.40      3.95       10          3.4
Land Purchase                        0.44       -        0.44        -          0.4
Subtotal                       31.58    19.05    50.63        38         44.0
Technical Assistance Costs
Consultants                          1.99    11.30    13.29         85         11.6
Fellowships                          2.89      3.99      6.88       58          6.0
Contract Research and Other
Technical Assistance Costs           2.64    10.56    13.20         80         11.5
Subtotal                        7.52    25.85    33.37        77         29.0
Incremental Operational Costs
Salaries and Wageis                 21.95       -       21.95        -        19.9
Other Operation Cost                 7.26      1.81      9.07       20         13.7
Subtotal                       29.21      1.81    31.02        6         27.0
Project Base Cost                   68.31    46.71   115.02         41        100
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies               4.12      2.13      6.25        -          5.4
Price Contingencies                 17.66    11.15    28.81         _          25.1
Subtotal                       21.78    13.28    35.06        38         30.5
Total Project Cost             90.09    59.99   150.08        40        130.5



- 31 -
3.28      Cost estimates for capital inputs are based on information obtained
in Brazil and comparative data from international research centers. The costs
for buildings, laboratory equipment and furniture were estimated on the basis
of recent cost levels in Brazil, as provided by architects of EMBRAPA and the
private sector. Estimates for farm development, field equipment, vehicles,
library documentation and information services reflect similar data from
existing centers operating in Brazil. The civil works cost estimates have
been based on recent experience in Brazil for comparable construction, taking
into account expected space requirements of the project research stations and
the wide regional variations in construction costs. Some flexibility has
been allowed in the case of consultant research specialists to be engaged in
the research programs and for fellowships, the number assigned to each of the
specific research programs being indicative only. Annual costs per consultant
were estimated to be US$85,000, of which 40% comprised salary; 30% insurance,
retirement, family educational allowance and other benefits; and 30% duty
station allowances, including rent, travel expenses and relocation. These
estimates were based on: comparative data from the previous Bank loan for the
first research project; current information from eight International Research
Centers; and the limited availability of internationally recruited scientists
with the necessary qualifications and competence to meet EMBRAPA's terms of
reference. Estimates of incremental operating costs are based on an estimated
staff development pattern for the five-year period, using EMBRAPA's salary
scales. It is estimated, based on previous EMBRAPA and international expe-
rience, that other operating expenses would be equivalent to 30% of salaries
during the first two years and 40% in years 3 to 5. In all cases, the existing
salary and operating costs have been appraised and subtracted from the total
establishment cost, so that only the incremental cost is shown as part of the
project cost.
3.29      In view of existing uncertainties bearing on building requirements
at a few of the experiment stations, a physical contingency of 15% was allowed
for civil works and research farm development. A physical contingency of 10%
was applied to vehicles, and farm laboratory and office equipment, and to
library and documentation services. No physical contingencies were provided
for technical assistance or incremental operating costs. The total physical
contingency amounts to 5.4% of the base project cost. All baseline costs were
calculated for June 1981 prices. Price contingencies are based on projected
future international price increases and are calculated in US dollars and
assumed to be 9.0% in 1981; 8.5% in 1982; 7.5% from 1983 through 1985; and
6.0% thereafter.
D. Financing
3.30      The proposed Bank loan of US$60.0 million to the Empresa Brasileira
de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (EMBRAPA) would finance the full foreign exchange
cost, or 41% of the total project cost excluding taxes and duties. The
balance of US$90.1 million would be financed by the borrower, EMBRAPA from
annual budgeted allocations from the Federal Government. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that adequate investment and
operational funding and necessary import licenses would be made available
promptly to ensure that EMBRAPA could execute the project in an effective and
timely manner.



- 32 -
3.31      It is proposed that up to US$500,000 be made available to retro-
actively finance urgently required project activities involving a baseline
survey for the evaluation component (para 4.22) and to help ensure an early
completion of, and satisfactory continuity in, the preparation of detailed
architectural anc engineering work required for the construction program.
Documented expenditures for these purposes prior to the signing of the proposed
Loan Agreement but after January 1, 1981 would be eligible.
E. Procurement
3.32      Due to the widely dispersed nature of the numerous civil works sites
and the relatively small size and specialized nature of the individual construc-
tion contracts, it is doubtful whether foreign contractors, or even major
national contractors, would be interested in building the proposed facilities.
However, Government procurement procedures, which are satisfactory, would be
followed with contracts advertised in the local and national press. Foreign
bidders would not: be excluded. Work by force account would be permitted in
remote areas where it is difficult to obtain contractors by competitive bidding.
Total civil works procurement over five years would be about US$20.5 million,
excluding contingencies. Laboratory (US$8.6 million), library, documenta-
tion equipment and materials (US$8.7 million) would be purchased following
procurement basecl on international competitive bidding for contracts in excess
of US$200,000; aiter-sales service, to be provided locally, would be of critical
importance in the evaluation of such bids. Purchases in these two categories,
estimated to cost:, after grouping with appropriate procurement standards,
less than US$200 000 and aggregating not more than US$2.0 million in each
case, would be purchased through EMBRAPA's existing procurement procedures,
which are satisfactory and which require locally advertised competitive bid-
ding; or, where t:he number of potential suppliers is limited, procurement would
be by prudent shopping, with quotations from at least three suppliers. Office,
farm equipment and vehicles (US$8.4 million), which would be provided for the
51 widely scattered project stations over several years, would also be pur-
chased directly, in small lots, by the various EMBRAPA stations and according
to normal EMBRAPA procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. Ancillary
computer equipment and terminals must be compatible with existing equipment
and would be purchased directly from the original suppliers up to a total
cost of US$50,000. A copy of the detailed procurement procedures used by
EMBRAPA is available in Project Files. The various technical assistance
components (consultancy services, fellowships, other technical assistance
and contract research) of the project (total cost, US$33.4 million) would
be procured, where foreign contracts are involved, with the assistance of
agencies special:Ly contracted on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (paras 4.15 and 4.17). EMBRAPA would, however, continue to administer
directly that portion of fellowship, training and consultancy service pro-
grams dealing with Brazilian universities research/consultancy firms and
with individual Brazilian consultants under normal direct hire/contractual
arrangements, which are satisfactory. The contracting of all consultants
would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Under technical
assistance, the contracting of specific research sub-projects is also con-
templated and would be subject to suitable guidelines previously reviewed
and approved by lthe Bank. Proposed guidelines are outlined in Annex 1.
Suitable assurances covering these procurement arrangements were obtained
during negotiations.



- 33 -
F. Disbursement
3.33      The proposed Bank loan of US$60.0 million would be disbursed
as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for consulting services, research
services, fellowships, office, farm and laboratory equipment,
vehicles and library and documentation equipment and materials
(such disbursements are expected to represent about 67% of
loan proceeds);
(b) 80% of local expenditures for consulting services;
(c) 40% of local expenditures for office, farm and laboratory equipment,
vehicles and library and documentation equipment and materials; and
(d) 35% of local expenditures for research services, fellowships
and civil works.
All disbursement requests would be fully documented with the exception of
claims for expenditures in respect of civil works by force account and pur-
chases of equipment and materials under contracts of less than US$50,000
equivalent, which would be disbursed against statements of expenditures the
documentation for which would be retained by EMBRAPA for review during
Bank supervision missions. In order to help reduce the interval during
which EMBRAPA would finance the Bank's share of project cost with its own
resources, and the underdisbursement of the Bank Loan under high local
inflation rates, EMBRAPA may request the Bank to make advance payments from
the loan account into a Special Account to be opened in US dollars in the
Banco Central do Brasil and which would be available for financing only
the Bank's share of the project cost. The amount on deposit in the Special
Account, however, would not exceed US$3.0 million. EMBRAPA would be enti-
tled to make withdrawals from the Special Account at the exchange rate
applicable on the day the expenditures were made. Disbursements are expected
to occur over a period of about five years for all categories with the ex-
ception of technical assistance components (training, consultancy services
and contract research), where a period of up to six years would be allowed.
The estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 3, Tables 13 and 14.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.34      Separate accounts would be kept by EMBRAPA of expenditures made under
the project. These would be audited annually for each fiscal year, in accord-
ance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, and copies of the fully
audited statements would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the end
of each fiscal year. EMBRAPA's accounts have been satisfactorily audited in
recent years by the Inspector General of Finance (IGF) of the Ministry of Finance.
In the future, EMBRAPA's accounts will be audited by the Central Secretariat
of Internal Control (SECIN) of the Secretariat of Planning, which would also
be acceptable. Statement of expenditure documentation would be used only as
specified in paragraph 3.33. The audit report provided to the Bank would
include an opinion as to the reliability of statements of expenditures to
support claims for disbursements (i.e., whether claims are supported by



- 34 -
adequate documentation and reflect properly incurred expenditures for legiti-
mate project purposes) and the adequacy of internal controls. The Special
Account (para 3.33) would be audited by an independent auditing unit of
the National Monetary Council. Suitable assurances covering these accounting
and auditing requirements by an auditor acceptable to the Bank were obtained
at negotiations.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overall Organization and Responsibility
4.01      The project would be an integral part of EMBRAPA's overall research
and research support program and would be executed through EMBRAPA's existing
management structure. EMBRAPA's organizational structure is described in
paragraphs 2.06 and 2.08 and in Annex 3, Chart 1. The responsibilities for
different aspects of project execution would be similar to the arrangements
for the Agricultural Research I Project. The three executive directors of
EMBRAPA (who report to the President) have prime responsibility for the
general management of the research programs included in the project. They
oversee the collaboration among the national commodity centers, the regional
centers and the state-level stations carrying out research, and they are
responsible for seeing that these centers and stations receive the needed
support from the various headquarters departments of EMBRAPA. The Advisory
Office for International Cooporation (ACI) would act as a secretariat for
day-to-day coordination of matters directly relating to implementation of
the project and would be the main contact with the Bank on administrative
matters pertaining to the project. During negotiations, an assurance was
obtained that EMBRAPA would appoint a Project Coordinator not later than
September 30, 1981 and thereafter maintain a Project Coordinator whose expe-
rience and qualifications were adequate for the purpose. Prior to his appoint-
ment, EMBRAPA would provide suggested qualifications and terms of reference
for the Project Coordinator to the Bank for its review and comment. The
Science and Technology Department of EMBRAPA headquarters would be especially
important in the coordination of matters concerning technical aspects of
project implementation. Responsibility for coordinating the monitoring of
project implementation would lie with the Project Coordinator in ACI. Evalu-
ation of the socio-economic impact of the individual research and research
support programs would be coordinated by the Department of Analysis and
Evaluation (DDM). Execution arrangements for the various main aspects of the
project--improved research planning and programing, field research development,
technical assistance, training, and monitoring and evaluation--are described
below. As EMBRAPA's program would be expanding considerably with the execution
of this project and organizational arrangements may need further adaptation or
adjustment, assurances were obtained from EMBRAPA during negotiations that,
no later than June 30, 1984, EMBRAPA would provide the Bank with a detailed
review of the adequacy of these project execution arrangements, with recommen-
dations for measures to correct specific problems identified; and, after con-
sultation with the Bank, would promptly implement agreed measures. EMBRAPA's
review would include an examination of the operation of the project-specific
monitoring system introduced as part of the proposed project (paras 4.19 to
4.21) and would consider the feasibility of expanding the system to include
also EMBRAPA's activities external to the project.



- 35 -
B. Implementation Planning and Reporting
4.02      EMBRAPA would prepare Annual Implementation Plans for the project
which would provide details on planned civil works and equipment procurement
activities and on fellowships and technical assistance. The plans would
include details both for the year of the plan and for the following year
covering: the activities to be carried out; the funds requested for these
purposes; and the funds approved in the budget. The portion of the Annual
Implementation Plan dealing with civil works would include evidence of owner-
ship for each new site where project-financed construction was envisaged.
The portion of the Annual Implementation Plan concerned with fellowships and
training would include details of the proposed places of study, curricula
to be followed, and expected duration of study. The portion of the Annual
Implementation Plan dealing with technical assistance would indicate the
specialties of consultants to be hired, the places where they would work,
and the expected duration of the contracts. During negotiations an assurance
was obtained that the Annual Implemntation Plan would be submitted to the
Bank by November 30 of each year and any revisions based upon the approved
budget allocations would be submitted to the Bank by February 28 of each year.
The Annual Implementation Plan for 1981 was reviewed during negotiations. ACI
would be responsible for presentation of the Annual Implementation Plan to the
Bank but the plans would be prepared by the various responsible departments
and units within EMBRAPA.
4.03      EMBRAPA would prepare and submit to the Bank, semi-annual progress
reports which would document progress in implementation of the project.
These reports would be submitted by April 30 and October 31 of each year.
Suitable assurances were obtained during negotiations. EMBRAPA would also
submit to the Bank reports on: (a) special evaluation studies (para 4.22);
and (b) the mid-term review to be conducted by an external Agricultural
Research Review Team (para 4.23).
C. Research Programing
4.04      Although the basic content and priority lines of inquiry for the
research programs in the project are defined, they would be reviewed and
updated annually through much the same iterative planning process with which
the overall project proposal was developed. More specifically, the various
research stations managed by or affiliated with EMBRAPA would detail the
subprojects or experiments which they perceive to be needed--based on their
interpretations of national, regional and state agricultural development plans
and priorities; on their ongoing research results; and on the suggestions or
requests of other stations, agencies (particularly extension services and
representatives of development programs), or ultimate "clients" (e.g., farmer
groups) which depend on the research findings of the station involved.
4.05      Given the design of the research network--a combination of regional
centers for farming systems research, national commodity-oriented research
centers and state-level stations for executing adaptive research at the



- 36 -
producer level--and the fact that most stations carry out research under
more than one of the national research programs, a critical subsequent step in
the programing process is the systematic review of the aggregate proposals for
research related to each of the different commodity, farming system or support
research programs. This review would be organized and led by the national
coordinator for each of the research programs (usually the technical chief
of the lead station, and, in a few of the new or support research programs, a
high level EMBRAPA headquarters staff member in the Department of Science and
Technology). Within the range of likely general budget constraints, the
revised, consolidated annual research program proposals would be reviewed in a
workshop with the participation of the various research stations involved, as
well as representatives from key outside agencies (e.g., representatives of
special development programs, universities, the extension service, farmer
groups, and such) and with a view to trying to make the research program
internally consisl:ent and responsive to the needs of the "research clients."
For example, the consolidated research program for a particular commodity,
e.g., beans, would include key basic research required for and as indicated
by the various farming systems research centers or local adaptive research
stations--the requirements of both of the latter presumably reflecting local
agricultural development conditions and priorities.
4.06      The resalts of the annual programing workshops for the various
research programs would be fed back into adjustments to the plans of the
different stations involved, the consolidated research activities of each
station becoming the action plan for that station. In addition to the annual
planning and review workshops indicated above, research planning would be
guided by Advisory Councils which already operate at some stations and which
would be extended under the project. These Councils include invited experts
from industry, extension, and universities in addition to producer represen-
tatives. As a further measure to improve research planning, the project has
provided earmarked funds to facilitate travel by the National Program
Coordinators and 'by collaborating researchers to the various stations where
research is being conducted.
D. Research Development and Execution
General
4.07      The execution of research would be handled through maximum delegation
of authority and responsibility to the national program leader/coordinator
and to the participating stations. As noted in paragraph 4.05, each research
program would have a national program coordinator who would be responsible for
leading and integrating the research efforts under that program. He also
would be the principal agent in facilitating cooperation among commodity
programs, regional research programs; state-level research units, EMBRAPA
headquarters technical staff and other collaborating institutions. The
Department of Technology and Science at EMBRAPA headquarters would also delegate
one liaison officer for each national research program. The functions of this
liaison officer would be to ensure adequate and timely coordination between the
designated national research program leader and EMBRAPA headquarters technical



- 37 -
staff. The principal research or technical support roles of the various
FMBRAPA centers and stations are outlined below. A listing of all major
stations cooperating in each of the programs is provided in Annex 3, Table 6.
Regional Research Centers
4.08      The research on improvement of farming systems for the three main
agro-ecological regions would be coordinated by, and conducted primarily, but
by no means exclusively, at the three regional stations, for the arid and
semi-arid tropics (in Petrolina), the humid tropics (Belem), and the campos
cerrados (Planaltina, D.F.). The station chief of each regional station would
have overall administrative responsibility for the operation of the station,
while the associate or technical chief for research would serve as the respec-
tive program coordinator.
4.09      The regional research centers would also play primary roles in
executing the National Research Program for Forestry. Though the program
would be coordinated by the National Program for Forestry at EMBRAPA, Brasilia,
and largely implemented by the Regional Unit for Forestry Research in the
Center-South (at Colombo, Parana); other major components would be implemented
at the regional centers for the semi-arid tropics, the humid tropics and the
campos cerrados.
National Commodity Centers
4.10      The national commodity-oriented research programs would be conducted
at the specific center for each commodity primarily, but also at the regional
research centers, satellite or sub-centers, and cooperating institutions. The
composition of the network would vary for different commodities. The core
multidisciplinary research on the factors or problems that limit production of
the commodity generally would be undertaken primarily by the team of scientists
located at the coordinating research station, usually the national commodity
center. As with the regional farming system research centers, the chief of
each national commodity center would have overall administrative responsibility
for the operation of that station, while the associate (or technical) chief
for research would be responsible for overall management and supervision of
the research activities. The technical chief would also usually serve as
the national program coordinator.
Special Centers and Services
4.11      The National Program for Research on Food Technology would be
headquartered at, and coordinated by, EMBRAPA's Center for Food Technology in
Rio de Janeiro and the National Basic Seed Program at the EMBRAPA Service
(Center) for the Production of Basic Seed in Brasilia.
State/Territory Research Systems
4.12      The state research systems would participate in the various commodi-
ties and farming system research programs, primarily for local adaptive
reseach. In a few cases, however, such units would function as coordinating
centers for a national research program as well (e.g., coconuts, babassu and
vegetables).



- 38 -
EMBRAPA Headquarters
4.13      At least in the initial stages, several of the research programs
would be headquartered in EMBRAPA/Brasilia and coordinated by EMBRAPA's
Department for Science and Technology. These are the National Research
Programs for Agricultural Engineering, the National Research Program for
Bioenergy, the National Research Program for Animal Health and the National
Program for Forestry. In addition, the proposed project support for informa-
tion and documentation systems (which would affect each research program and
station) would be centrally managed by EMBRAPA's Department of Information and
Documentation, and architectural and engineering assistance for major civil
works would be provided by a special unit in EMBRAPA headquarters. During
negotiations, EMBRAPA agreed that it would adequately maintain and staff this
support unit.
4.14      EMBRAPA's Advisory Office for International Cooperation (ACI) would
also act as a cenltral intermediary for the sub-contracting of research to
organizations outside the EMBRAPA network. For example, contract research is
contemplated in the National Research Programs for Food Technology, Agricultural
Engineering and Bioenergy. Matters requiring such attention would be iden-
tified by the coordinators of the research program concerned, and contract
research studies would be planned jointly by EMBRAPA and the institution or
agencies which would actually do the work. A pre-contract technical review of
all contract research proposals would be carried out by the Department of
Science and Technology. A sample of the guidelines for such a review is
provided in Annex 1.
E. Technical Assistance
4.15      With respect to technical assistance, a very substantial strengthen-
ing of EMBRAPA's permanent staff would be required during the project period.
The technical assistance program has been designed both to assist EMBRAPA
senior staff to manage the continued expansion of the EMBRAPA program and
to help offset the lack of adequately trained research personnel during the
early years of project execution, when the training program would exert a
depleting effect, Approximately 156 manyears of consultancy services compri-
sing 99 manyears of longer tenn (contracts of more than one year) and 57
manyears of short:er term consultancy services (less than one year) would be
included to provide various specialized technical inputs as well as some
limited general program advice and help in strengthening research leadership
and liaison with similar research programs at the various International
Research Centers (e.g., research on beef cattle, beans, rice and farming
systems at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture/CIAT; on farming
systems at the International Crops Research Instititute for the Semi-Arid
Tropics/ICRISAT, and the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture/IITA;
on sweet sorghum at the International Center for the Improvement of Maize and
Wheat/CIMMYT; and on rice at the International Rice Research Institute/IRRI).
The estimated cost of the technical assistance, averaging some US$85,000 per
manyear, includes salaries, other benefits and housing, shipping and travel
expenses, and is based on recent EMBRAPA and comparable international expe-
rience in the contracting of scientists and specialists of the high caliber



- 39 -
required. In view of the large number of specialists to be hired and the
difficulty of locating competent specialists to be contracted from abroad,
EMBRAPA would contract, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, the
assistance of one or more agencies having specific experience in selecting and
helping administer the contracting of large numbers of individual foreign
consultants. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
EMBRAPA would, however, directly execute the recruitment and contracting of
local Brazilian consultants.
F. Staffing and Training
4.16      The project envisages an increase in professional staff by 122
senior scientists 1/ and 102 junior scientists. 2/ The allocation of these
incremental research staff members is outlined in Annex 3, Table 15.  Adminis-
trative and research support staff would be increased by 1,679 persons.
Incremental staff have been phased over the first five years of the proposed
six-year project life.
4.17      The proposed project includes a fellowship training program, total-
ling 205 fellowships for advance degree training, of which 87 would be for
Ph.D. and 118 for M.Sc. training courses. An estimated total of 106 (52%) of
these courses would be taken at universities abroad and the remaining 99 (48%)
at Brazilian universities. These 205 fellowships would be filled by candidates
mainly from within existing EMBRAPA staff, but previously selected staff and
students at universities and from the private sector would not be excluded
where candidates meet the specific requirements to fill specialized EMBRAPA
positions and agree to serve in them upon completion of their training.
During the selection process, special emphasis would be placed on obtaining
agreement from such candidates to return from fellowship training and occupy
long-term research positions at field experiment stations (i.e., not at
EMBRAPA headquarters) within the national research system. Specific fellow-
ship positions by disciplines would be identified annually and submitted for
approval as part of the Annual Implementation Plan (para 4.02). During the
first year of the project, it is expected that some 46 candidates would commence
post-graduate training (21 Ph.D. and 25 M.Sc.) in the fields of plant breeding,
physiology, botany, crop protection, agricultural engineering, economics,
library science and documentation. To assist EMBRAPA in the management of the
foreign fellowship program, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that EMBRAPA would contact an agent or agencies, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, specialized in providing such placement and fellowship
management services.
4.18      Short-term fellowships would vary in duration, normally from one
to three months, for non-degree study. These fellowships would be intended
as a means of developing and improving human skills as well as introducing
new technology and methodology into the EMBRAPA research system. It is
expected that a minimum of 340 candidates would benefit from this program.
1/   Ph.D. and M.Sc.
2/   B.S. or equivalent.



- 40 -
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.19      Monitoring and evaluation of the project would aim to:  (a) assist
EMBRAPA in the development of an integrated management information system
which would allow the institution's decision-makers to improve the programing,
administration and reorientation (as needed) of EMBRAPA's research programs;
(b) ensure the effective implementation of the proposed project in terms of
its objectives, targets and costs; and (c) assess the results of the specific
research programs and activities. These project components are expected to
perform related, but distinct functions. Monitoring would be more directly
linked to day-to-day project administration, serving as a management tool by
generating information on the physical and financial execution of the project
during its impleme!ntation period. It would also be useful for project super-
vision by other agencies of the Brazilian Government. Project evaluation
would aim to develop a methodology to measure research output in Brazil and
to evaluate the impact of research results on farming systems in the three
priority project areas. The evaluation component would also assist EMBRAPA in
defining more sysltematically farmers' research needs, and it would provide the
necessary feedback for future research programing.
4.20      EMBRAPA's statutes provide that its Board of Directors have primary
responsibility for monitoring the execution and evaluating the impact of
the institution's research activities. To help them carry out this function,
responsibility for coordinating the project monitoring system would rest
with the Advisory Office for International Cooperation of EMBRAPA (ACI) and
with the Department of Analysis and Evaluation (DDM) for project evaluation.
Through these departments and in collaboration with the Board of Directors and
representatives of other headquarters departments and field research stations,
EMBRAPA is undertaking an intensive study of current methods of monitoring and
evaluation. It is developing key project indicators and detailed plans to
help standardize and strengthen arrangements for EMBRAPA's monitoring and
evaluation of the proposed project. During negotiations, EMBRAPA's preliminary
plans for the project monitoring system and for the evaluation system were
reviewed and, based on this review, an assurance was obtained that EMBRAPA
would provide satisfactory final plans for implementation of effective systems
of monitoring and. evaluation not later than September 30, 1981.
Monitoring
4.21       Coordinated by the Advisory Office for International Cooperation
(ACI) and, in collaboration with the Departments of Science and Technology
(DTC) and Prograrm Planning and Budgeting (DRO), each research center would
participate in the development of, and subsequently operate, a common monitor-
ing system which would permit quick and effective comparisons to be made of
current project implementation achievements against original project goals.
In the case of performance shortfalls or execution delays, the periodic
(semi-annual) monitoring reports made by each center would also provide
information on the major reasons for delay. The monitoring system for each
station would include a core set of indicators to be used throughout the
EMBRAPA system, as well as indicators suited to the particular circumstances
of the station involved. The key indicators would cover such items as expendi-
ture, staffing levels, training courses, consultant services, contract research,



- 41-
levels of project investment and development costs (i.e., civil works, labora-
tory equipment, farm machinery and equipment, and vehicle purchase). EMBRAPA's
Advisory Office for International Cooperation would assist in the aggregation
of these monitoring reports into the semi-annual progress reports (para 4.03)
which would be routinely provided to the Bank. Suitable assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
Evaluation
4.22      The Department of Analysis and Evaluation would coordinate the
collection of the basic data which would contribute to the following special
analyses to be implemented under the proposed project:
(a) effects of the crop/commodity and farming systems research on
production in the major agricultural regions;
(b) evaluation of individual lines of research;
(c) cost/benefit analyses of research programs; and
(d) other socio-economic effects of the application of new
technology.
EMBRAPA is currently preparing to conduct a large-scale survey which is
urgently required to provide baseline data for project evaluation. The
component's various evaluation studies, while managed by the Department of
Analysis and Evaluation, would rely on substantial support from the research
stations and centers for their execution, and would involve monitoring data
inputs from the Advisory Office for International Cooperation, as well as
technical analysis assistance from the Department for Science and Technology.
4.23      In addition to the various special evaluation studies, which would be
prepared mainly by EMBRAPA personnel, there would be a special mid-project
review during the third year of project execution. This would be done by an
external Agricultural Research Review Team of internationally recognized
experts. EMBRAPA would select and nominate the members of the team, after
consultation with the Bank on the team's composition. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that the reports covering any special evalua-
tion studies would be provided promptly to the Bank; that the mid-project
report would be presented no later than June 30, 1984; and that, after review
with the Bank, any research program changes recommended in the mid-project
report would, as deemed advisable, be appropriately implemented by EMBRAPA.
Further details on monitoring and evaluation are provided in Annex 2.
H. Diffusion of Research Results
4.24      In order to help assure that the research results are translated
into increased production, the project envisages several important actions.
On the national level, the association already established between EMBRAPA
and the extension entity, EMBRATER, would help ensure that research and



- 42 -
extension policies and programs jointly reflect economic and social develop-
ment priorities. At the national level, the National Commission for Agricultural
Research and Technical Assistance in Rural Extension (COMPATER) was formed in
1976 to provide a. high level forum through which overall coordination of
EMBRAPA's and EMBRATER's activities could be effected. COMPATER has, however,
been somewhat inactive during the past two years and direct contacts within
the framework of close collaboration established between EMBRAPA and EMBRATER
have proved to be the most effective way of coordinating the activities of
the two institutions. EMBRAPA and EMBRATER would collaborate in the preparation
of printed information and other training materials for the dissemination of
new production technology through the local extension and research units.
Improved liaison,, in turn, between extension and research personnel at local
units, would be strongly encouraged and monitored to help ensure that the
researchers are more fully aware of the current production problems encountered
at the farm level, and that location of the state-level research units for
adaptive research and field demonstration serves to facilitate greater access
by farmers to research results.
4.25      The Government recognizes that the provision of research results
and additional and reoriented extension services would not, by themselves,
ensure increased production, especially insofar as the smaller scale farmer
is concerned. Beginning in the mid-1970s, it has therefore initiated a
series of complementary efforts in an attempt to assure that the range of
services and infrastructure required by farmers to utilize new technology
is provided. One such effort is the POLONORDESTE program through which the
Government channels rural infrastructure, social services, and agricultural
credit to some 4.5 integrated rural development projects in the Northeast;
another is the Government's important new POLONOROESTE program for the Northwest.
Ten agriculture and rural development projects are already being partly financed
by the Bank in the Northeast and two in Minas Gerais; other projects directed
principally to simall-scale farms are also under preparation in the Northeast
as well as the Northwest. Such projects provide an important mechanism through
which local research and extension services can tailor their efforts to the
needs of small-scale farmers in specific areas, with complementary development
of physical and social infrastructure and other agricultural support programs,
including land settlement.
4.26 .    The various phases of project implementation have been formulated
to provide a logical sequence of events to ensure maximum benefit from the
investments to be made. An implementation schedule is provided in Annex 3,
Chart 2.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Investment in Agricultural Research
5.01      The high economic return of effectively organized and implemented
agricultural research programs has been amply demonstrated. 1/ In Latin
America during t:he late 1960s, the economic rates of return for research on
1/   Evenson, R., "Investment in Agricultural Research - A Survey Paper for
CGIAR, Wor].d Bank"; Yale University Press, October 1973.



- 43 -
maize, sugarcane, wheat, and cotton have been estimated, ex post, to have
ranged between 35 and 90%.  One such study, done on cotton in Brazil, showed
an internal rate of return in excess of 77%. An ex post study of the Green
Revolution in India showed a rate of return to research of 72%.  Estimated
economic rates of return for agricultural research in developing countries
have averaged in the range of 40% for applied research and 60% for scientific
research related to agriculture. Aside from its economic efficiency, agricul-
tural research has also been an important tool in helping improve the welfare
of poor regions and groups and in addressing urgent development issues such
as the need for alternative energy sources.
5.02      An attempt to quantify ex ante the economic rate of return on the
proposed project has not been undertaken because of:
(a) inherent uncertainties regarding the timing and value of
research findings and the timing and extent of adoption of
research findings by farmers;
(b) difficulties in dividing potential benefits between research
and complementary investments (e.g., irrigation, extension,
training and the wide range of essential production inputs);
(c) the problem of assessing the value of negative research results,
which add to the pool of knowledge, provide guidance in matters of
planning and frequently benefit subsequent research efforts; and
(d) the fact that the proposed project, especially in its manpower
development and institution-building aspects, would only be
part of the much larger national research effort, the benefits
from which also cannot be readily analyzed in economic terms.
5.03      While determining an actual economic rate of return on investment in
agricultural research projects is difficult, there are useful benchmarks
against which the likely "success" of a research program can be predicted.
Common characteristics of successful research projects are:
(a) clear orientation to or linkage with major development goals;
(b) broad participation of researchers and planners in identifying the
desired areas of technological improvement;
(c) competent and stable research leadership;
(d) a well-trained staff at all levels (with continuous training
programs and adequate provision of personal and professional
incentives);
(e) use of multi-disciplinary teams to address clearly identified
problems;
(f) close integration of research activities with activities of
extension services, schools of agriculture, planning agencies,
ministries other than agriculture, and the private sector;



- 44 -
(g) access to international resources of research knowledge and
technology;
(h)  clearly written and promptly reported research results; and
(i) farmers as active participants in the research and demonstration
process.
The ongoing and planned research programs of EMBRAPA meet the above criteria
in large measure. Thus, there is reason to assume a good return on invest-
ment to strengthen research as proposed under the Agricultural Research II
project.
B. Beneficiaries and Target Population Groups
5.04      The project focuses largely on the North, Northeast, and Center-West
regions of Brazil, as does the first project.  These three regions comprise
about 82% of Brazil's total land area, 40% of the population, and 53% of the
farm workers (1930).  About half of the total population in each region is
rural.  The North and Northeast, with 47% of the country's farm labor force,
produce approximately 21% of the national agricultural output.  The inter-
regional agricultural production technology gaps are wide.  Yet, even the less
developed areas possess potential for expanded agricultural development. Also,
underdeveloped frontier regions of Brazil have a significant potential for
increased food production. To achieve and sustain the desired agricultural
development, continued improvement of technology will be required.
5.05      The socio-economic situation of most of the farmers in the project
area is precarious. In the three agro-ecological areas of the project, about
48% of the farm holdings, or some 1.1 million farms, are of less than 10 ha in
size. Most of the farm population of more than 6 million people on these
farms are estimated to live on incomes below the relative poverty level,
currently estimated to be US$332 per capita.
5.06      All commodities included in the project are present or potential
significant sources of income for a great many farmers, both large and small.
Additionally, rice, beans, vegetables, and fruits are important elements of
the diet of the poorest segment of the population. Accelerated production and
local processing of African oil palm, coconut, babassu palm and rubber can
generate much additional employment, especially in the North and Northwest,
where they also represent ecologically very suitable crops. The food tech-
nology and bioenergy research programs should serve as accelerators to food
production and biomass production for gas, liquid and solid fuels. Other raw
agricultural products, such as the vegetable oils mentioned above, have
potential for important contributions to the bioenergy field. The production
and industrialization of these commodities is also quite labor-intensive.



- 45 -
C. Project Risks
5.07      Strong Government commitment to self-sufficiency in food production,
to increased export of agricultural products, and to greater reliance on
substitute fuels from biomass (to replace those from petroleum sources) augur
well for success of the proposed project. Nevertheless, as with all research
projects, there is necessarily uncertainty concerning what the broad impact of
the research findings, and, hence, the precise benefits may be.
5.08      One risk lies with the adequacy of the linkages between research and
extension services, not fully effective in many countries, and also critical
to the success of the proposed project. Experience gained through EMBRAPA and
EMBRATER interaction during the past few years, however, provides a good base
for further strengthening these relationships. The proposed project would do
so through improved research programing, monitoring and evaluation, and close
association with the various special agricultural and rural development
programs of the Government.
5.09      Another risk lies with staffing.  Project implementation is contin-
gent on realization of a broad-based recruitment and staff training program.
It may be difficult in some areas, e.g., agricultural engineering, bioenergy
and food processing, to obtain qualified staff during the early stages.
Project provisions for training and use of consultants, as well as contract
research where necessary, should help mitigate this situation somewhat.
5.10      Another major project risk concerns the efficiency of the mechanisms
for research programing, administration, and coordination. EMBRAPA would be
strengthened in these specific areas in order to reduce this risk, with due
care taken to ensure that attempts to refine the administration and policy
making processes do not lead to increased bureaucracy at the Brasilia head-
quarters of EMBRAPA, but rather encourage decentralization making EMBRAPA
more responsive to its clients. This process should provide for a closer
relationship with all those groups relying on research results.
5.11      An additional risk, which impinges directly upon those noted above,
would be frequent changes in Government policy directly influencing agricul-
ture. This could create indecision and undue modification to research programs,
which are, inherently, of a long-term nature. However, if there are major
disruptions or changes in the policies that formed the basis upon which the
project was prepared, EMBRAPA should be better able to adjust its research
programs, based upon the steps already taken to improve its planning, monitor-
ing and evaluation systems, and upon the managerial competence so far demon-
strated by EMBRAPA in its execution of the first project.
D. Environmental Impact
5.12      During the past decade, and particularly during the last five years,
there has been considerable discussion in international forums concerning the
need to protect the natural habitat and ecology of the Amazon basin and to
prevent rapid and irreversible damage to the delicate ecological balance



- 46 -
of the Amazonian forest complex. The Brazilian Government has been developing
efforts to address these issues through control legislation and intervention
by the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq),
the Institute for Brazilian Forestry Development (IBDF), and the National
Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA).  In addition, the need
for improved natural resource inventories, not only for the Amazon region
(North), but also for the other two regions, would be addressed by the proposed
project. Furthermore, work initiated under the first research project, on
development of viable farming systems designed to be compatible with the
ecosystems in which they area located, would be reinforced.
5.13      Based on the premise that the technology developed at EMBRAPA
research stations would be successfully disseminated to planners and the
farmers in the three regions through carefully prepared agricultural develop-
ment projects (various of which the Bank is supporting), it is clear that the
probable environmental impact of the proposed project is positive. It is, of
course, also clear that there is no complete guarantee that the inevitable
competition between production on the one hand and conservation on the other
would always be decided on the merits of the latter. However, there is reason
to believe that the extractive shifting cultivation cycle, destructive of
virgin forest, can be altered; that the increase of productivity developed
under the project should dampen the need to bring new land under cultivation;
and that the deveLopment of improved farming techniques, covering soil conserv-
ation, crop rotation and rational water use (irrigation and control of damaging
water flow), would all contribute to preserve the ecological balance which is
essential to increased agricultural production and the agroeconomic stability
of the cropping systems over the long term. Nevertheless, particularly with
the opening up of new land areas, the pollution of streams due to soil run-off
and filtration of potentially harmful pesticides would inevitably create some
problems, so that Government efforts to reinforce environmental protection
services as well as to improve monitoring of development programs would take
on added importance.
5.14      On balance, the concepts of good agricultural husbandry embodied in
the project goals are very favorable from the viewpoint of conservation of
the environment.
VI. SDMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would provide adequate investment and operational funding and necessary
import licenses promptly to ensure that the Borrower, EMBRAPA, could execute
the project in an effective and timely manner (para 3.30) and from EMBRAPA
that it would:
(a) follow procurement procedures as outlined in paragraph 3.32;
(b) maintain separate project accounts and provide the Bank with
satisfactory audits, including an audit of statements of expenditures,
and the Special Account, performed by auditors acceptable to the
Bank, within four months of the end of each fiscal year (para 3.34);



- 47 -
(c) not later than September 30, 1981, appoint an appropriately qualified
Project Coordinator whose terms of reference and qualifications
would have been previously reviewed by the Bank (para 4.01);
(d) provide the Bank, no later than June 30, 1984, with a detailed
review of the adequacy of project management arrangements, with
recommendations for measures to correct specific problems, and
would, after consultation with the Bank, and as shall be deemed
advisable, promptly implement agreed measures (para 4.01);
(e) submit an Annual Implementation Plan to the Bank not later than
November 30 of each year and submit any necessary revisions indi-
cated by the approved budget allocations not later than February 28
of each year (para 4.02);
(f) furnish to the Bank, as part of the Annual Implementation Plan,
satisfactory evidence of ownership rights in respect to sites
where the project would finance construction (para 4.02);
(g) provide detailed semi-annual progress reports to the Bank on
the status of project execution (paras 4.03 and 4.21).
(h) maintain and adequately staff a special unit to provide
engineering and architectural assistance for execution and
supervision of major civil works (para 4.13);
(i) contract, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
an agency or agencies to assist it in obtaining consultant
services (para 4.15) and in managing the fellowship program
(para 4.17);
(j) provide satisfactory detailed plans for implementation of effective
systems of monitoring and evaluation not later than September 30,
1981 (para 4.20); and
(k) send reports on evaluation studies promptly to the Bank and
arrange for a mid-project review of research programs during
the third year of project execution by a team of international
experts named by EMBRAPA after consultation with the Bank, the
team's report to be presented no later than June 30, 1984 and
recommended program adjustments implemented after review with
the Bank (para 4.23).
6.02      With the indicated assurances, the proposed agricultural research
project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$60 million for a
term of 15 years, including three years of grace.
May 25, 1981



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Criteria for Selection of Contract Research Projects
1.        The selection of research problems and the agency to be awarded the
contracts to execute the associated projects would be handled in three phases,
as detailed in the following general guidelines:
A.   Phase I:  Criteria for selecting suitable projects to be executed
under contract.
(i) Basic Project Selection Criteria
(a) The! specific problem which is to be the subject of a research
project or sub-project must meet with the following criteria:
1.   it must have been identified by EMBRAPA technical staff
as being an essential facet of on-going research programs,
either at the national or state/territorial level;
2.   it must have been sufficiently proven that the basic
capability, based on technical staff and research
facilities currently available within the EMBRAPA
system, is insufficient for proper execution of the
research project or sub-project in question.
(b) The Selection Process would be administered along the following
lines:
1.   Presentation of Proposal.  The originator of the research
proposal would submit his proposal through EMBRAPA's
technical and administrative review channels. At the
experiment station level, these would include the: appro-
priate national research program coordinator; associate
technical chief of the station, and the station head. The
proposal would include the following: a description of
the specific research problem; suggested line of research;
specific nature of information requested and estimated
cost; and, based on the above, clear detailed terms of
reference for the selected agency(ies) which would execute
the research being proposed. Reporting requirements would
be specified in the terms of reference.
2.   Review Process.  The station would then submit the proposal
to Brasilia (Advisory Office for International Cooperation)
for technical, administrative and financial review by the
department concerned.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
2.        Basic Criteria for Selection of Executing Agent or Agencies.
Selection of executing agencies would be based on two criteria:
(i)  Capability criteria.  This would be based upon previous technical
experience in the field: staff, i.e., number of suitably qualified
staff available; range and adequacy of physical plant (laboratories,
equipment and field plots); and the technical/administrative
capability to meet both technical and administrative reporting
requirements.
(ii) Experience criteria. This would be based largely on experience in
previous research related to the specific problem to be studied;
relative experience of technical staff to handle contract research
and relative experience of administrative staff to handle accounting
and technical reporting duties; and familiarity with the subject
matter and/or regional location where applicable.
3.        Phase I will be completed when a sufficiently detailed and accurate
project brief has been prepared. This project brief will become the basis for
the preparation of a pro-forma contract covering the requirements of the
selected project or sub-project. The project brief must then be reviewed
by the Advisory Office for International Cooperation and approved by the
Board of Directors.
B.   Phase II:  This phase comprises the legal aspects of contract preparation
and ends when the contract between EMBRAPA and the selected agency(ies) is
finally signed. The steps involved are as follows:
(i)  ACI forwards the approved documentation, i.e., project description,
costing and complete terms of reference plus draft contract condi-
tions, to the Advisory Legal Office (AJU), EMBRAPA;
(ii) the first legal draft of the contract is sent by AJU to ACI
for discussions with pertinent departments and the technical/
administrative chiefs of experiment stations originally
requesting the services;
(iii) ACI returns draft documents to AJU with comments from interested
departments listed in (ii) above and also to the agency(ies)
chosen to execute the project or sub-project;
(iv) where the face value of the contract exceeds US$250,000,
equivalent, the draft documents would be sent to the Bank for
review and comment prior to signing; and
(v)  contract and supporting documents are finalized (upon receipt
of a no-objection cable/telex from the Bank where necessary) and
sent to EMBRAPA and agency(ies) directorates for appropriate
signing by authorized representatives.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
C.   Phase III:  Supervision of contract/research program implementation:
All technical aspects of the supervision phase are handled by
DTC, although it may request inputs from technical staff at the
experiment station originating the request. Supervision reports
must be sent to the station for comment. The executing agent/
agencies and ACI, as well as pertinent departments of EMBRAPA and
representatives of the experiment stations concerned, would parti-
cipate in mid-term and final reviews, and any changes made on the
basis of the mid-term review would require the mutual agreement of
ACI and the agency(ies) involved. The AJU (EMBRAPA) would also be
required to review and approve legal amendments or deletions to the
contract.
March 16, 1981



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Introduction
1.        The monitoring and evaluation components of the proposed project have
been designed with the broad objectives of:
(a) assisting EMBRAPA in the development over the medium-term of an
integrated management information system which would permit decision-
makers at various levels of the institution to identify, design,
administer and re-orient as necessary EMBRAPA's research program;
(b) ensuring the effective implementation of the proposed project,
in terms of its specific objectives, targets and costs as
agreed during negotiations and modified from time to time during
the course of project execution; and
(c) assessing the results of the specific research activities/programs
financed under the project.
These components are expected to perform the following related, but distinct,
functions. The monitoring component would be more directly linked to day-to-day
project administration, serving as a management tool by generating information
on the physical and financial execution of the project during its implementa-
tion period. It would also be useful for project supervision by other agencies
of the Brazilian Government. The evaluation component would aim to develop a
methodology to measure research output in Brazil and to evaluate the impact of
research results on farming systems in the three priority project areas. The
evaluation component would also assist EMBRAPA in defining more systematically
farmers' research needs over the long run, and it would provide the necessary
feedback for future research programing.
2.        EMBRAPA's statutes provide that its Board of Directors have primary
responsibility for monitoring the execution and evaluating the impact of the
institution's research activities. In this regard, they receive support from
various EMBRAPA headquarters departments and from the Advisory Office for
International Cooperation (ACI), which would serve as a secretariat to coordi-
nate project execution. Each of the executive directors has developed
his own informal monitoring system with the aid of information provided by
headquarters and the various regional, commodity and state/territory research
centers. In addition, several departments at EMBRAPA headquarters request
information from the research centers in an uncoordinated and sometimes
duplicative way. In turn, the research station chiefs also have their own



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
information systems to monitor the different research programs. Essentially,
EMBRAPA does not have a general monitoring system for fast collection, summary
and analysis of k<ey project (and non-project) implementation parameters.
Hence, there is currently no means to systematically generate data and informa-
tion in a form that can be readily assimilated and utilized by EMBRAPA's
management. In terms of research evaluation, EMBRAPA has focused (during
implementation of the Agriculture Research I Project) on qualitative assessment
of some technicaL aspects of the research programs (design and methodology of
research), employing for this task qualified Brazilian and foreign consultants.
However, no systematic quantitative evaluation of research results or their
impact has been carried out thus far.
Monitoring
3.        The proposed project provides for the establishment of a monitoring
system to provide data and information on key project implementation parameters
to EMBRAPA's management at headquarters and research center levels. This
information would enable management to assess project progress on a continuous
basis and to take timely decisions so that project implementation targets
are met on schedule and within estimated costs. It would also serve in the
supervision of the project by the Brazilian Government and the Bank. The
monitoring component would include:
(a) the establishment of a data collection system;
(b) training of existing staff of EMBRAPA so that they acquire the
skills necessary to analyze and translate the data generated by the
system into a regular flow of information and reports to users
within the institution, the Brazilian Government and the Bank; and
(c) the establishment of a mechanism that would systematically allow
EMBRAPA's administrators to use the information produced by the
system in project execution management.
4.        EMBRAPA's management recognizes the importance of developing a
monitoring system which would cover all (project and non-project) research
activities, and which would serve as a managerial tool for use by decision-
makers throughout the institution. However, previous attempts to establish
such a system have been unsuccessful, mainly because of the complexity of
the schemes. Further, EMBRAPA's concern that immediate design and application
of a new overall monitoring system (prior to its having been tested on a
smaller scale) could result in failure has led EMBRAPA to propose a two-stage
approach. In the first stage, a new monitoring system would be applied only
to the Bank co-financed Agriculture Research II project. Subsequently, based
on experience with the new system, as well as with other monitoring activities
that EMBRAPA is currently pursuing, EMBRAPA would investigate the feasibility
of initiating a full-scale system to be implemented throughout EMBRAPA at the
time of the mid-term project review of 1984.



- 53-
ANNEX 2
Page 3
5.        During negotiations of the Agriculture Research II project, EMBRAPA
presented for discussion with the Bank a preliminary set of qualitative and
quantitative indicators for the monitoring component of the project, together
with a preliminary plan for implementing the new monitoring system. The detailed
final plans (including details regarding the sources of data, form of presenta-
tion, frequency of collection, terms of reference of the research stations and
headquarters units of EMBRAPA which would be involved in data collection and
analysis, and staff training for implementation of the new system) would be pre-
sented to the Bank by September 30, 1981. The monitoring system would be opera-
ting at the beginning of project implementation and would place emphasis on
speeding data collection and analysis to provide a regular flow of timely infor-
mation to project managers. To accomplish these objectives, efforts would be
made to design a system as simple as possible. Currently, under the coordination
of the Advisory Office for International Cooperation of EMBRAPA (ACI), the Depart-
ment of Science and Technology (DTC), the Department of Program Planning and
Budgeting (DRO), and the Department of Analysis and Evaluation (DDM), in
collaboration with EMBRAPA's Board of Directors, heads of other headquarters
departments, and chiefs of the research stations are selecting indicators which
would be applicable to the entire project, as well as those which would be
specific to individual research stations.
6.        Although the plan for implementing the new monitoring system has yet
to be finalized, it is expected to function along the following general lines.
Principle responsibility for data collection (aforementioned quantitative and
qualitative indicators) would rest with the research stations, which would
produce periodic reports for presentation to ACI. ACI would in turn analyze
the reports, discuss issues and problems with the relevant departments of
EMBRAPA and present recommendations to EMBRAPA's Board of Directors or other
decision-makers, as appropriate. ACI would also prepare for presentation
to the Bank, semi-annual progress reports which would include its analysis of
the research station reports, problems identified, recommendations made and
action taken. In the course of analyzing the research station reports and
attempting to identify possible solutions to problems as they arise, ACI would
draw on the assistance and advice of new inter-departmental technical and
administrative committees which EMBRAPA is in the process of establishing by
product group, under the coordination of DTC.
7.        The research stations, headquarters departments and ACI would use
existing EMBRAPA staff for the collection, summary and analysis of project
data. Other operating costs, such as staff training, travelling by represen-
tatives of ACI and other headquarters departments to research stations and
vice versa, office equipment and supplies, and computer time would be financed
by EMBRAPA, which has already made the necessary provisions in its operational
budget. Therefore, no incremental costs have been included for implementation
of the new monitoring system for the project. However, in order to assess the
performance of the system and prepare a plan for the institution-wide system
which would be implemented after discussion with the Bank in Year 3 of the
project (para 5 above), EMBRAPA would require the services of at least one
consultant during 1981. Provision has already been made for costs of these
services under ongoing Loan 1249-BR.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Evaluation
8.        EMBRAPA  has a number of well-qualified economists at headquarters
and the research stations who have been providing assistance on economic
matters in different areas of research, but no systematic ex-ante or ex-post
evaluation of research activities has been undertaken. The proposed project
would finance two ikinds of evaluation:
(a)  analysis of the impact of research results on farming systems
at farm level in the three project areas; and
(b)  identification and quantification of research output and of its
benefits and their distribution between producers and consumers,
as well as the effects of research results on other economic
variables (i.e., foreign exchange earnings, labor usage and income
distribution among rural producers).
9.        The evaluation component has been prepared by DDM, together with
economists in EMBRAPA's research activities at headquarters and all of the
research stations. DDM would also be responsible for coordinating implementa-
tion of the component. Evaluation of the research impact on farming systems
would be executed by the regional centers for the campos cerrados (CPAC)
in the Center-West, the humid tropics (CPATU) in the North/Northwest, and
the semi-arid tropics (CPATSA) in the Northeast. The relevant commodity
research centers would be in charge of executing the evaluation of research
output and the economic benefits of research investments. The development of
a methodology suitable for this type of evaluation, applicable to the Brazilian
case, would be the responsibility of DDM specialists.
10.       Research Impact on Farming Systems.  The general objective of this
evaluation exercise would be to assess the impact of research results at farm
level on the most important farming systems and on the overall agricultural
development of the Campos Cerrados and the humid and semi-arid Brazilian
tropics.  Specifically, EMBRAPA expects to:
(a)  identify the most representative farming systems in the three
project areas;
(b)  identify the present technological base of the farming systems, the
socio-economic factors relevant to the adoption of new technology,
and the farmers' needs for further research; and
(c)  evaluate the socio-economic impact of technological changes that may
occur at the farm level, as a consequence of agricultural research
activities.
11.       Preparat:ion for a representative baseline study of the most important
farming systems in the three project areas is underway, and it is expected
that the survey itself would be concluded before the start of project execution.
Some 4,150 farmers (1,200 in the Center-West, 1,350 in the North/Northwest and
1,600 in the Northeast) are being selected. The large number of farmers is



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
justified for the purposes of statistical representation, given the geographic
area covered by the project, the number of existing farming systems and the
large universe of farmers which the sample is intended to represent. The
definition of sample techniques - particularly sample identification, stratifi-
cation and size - were thoroughly discussed by DDM staff, research station
specialists and specialized consultants employed for this purpose.
12.       During project execution, a smaller sample of 750 farmers would be
included in follow-up comparative surveys to be conducted in 1984 and 1986.
The key parameters to be studied in these follow-up exercises were discussed
and agreed with the Bank during negotiations. The methodology for evaluating
the research impact on the farming systems is now being further developed by
DDM, consultants and the economists of the three regional stations and was
also discussed with the Bank during negotiations.
13.       Analysis of data collected in the baseline and follow-up surveys
would provide EMBRAPA with first-hand knowledge of the socio-economic situation
at farm level, especially in regard to farmers' research needs and the factors
limiting adoption of technological change. This, in turn, would provide
EMBRAPA with the feedback necessary to sharpen its planning process and to
formulate more appropriate research programs.
14.       Research Output and Economic Return on Agricultural Investment.  The
general objective of this evaluation work is to obtain a qualitative and
quantitative assessment of research output and its impact at different levels
of the Brazilian economy. Specifically, EMBRAPA would:
(a) evaluate at the research station level the physical and economic
efficiency of research, as well as the biological and marketing
risks of technology resulting from agricultural research and already
in use by farmers;
(b) identify and evaluate the relative importance of bottlenecks
in the process of diffusion and adoption of new technology; and
(c) identify and quantify the impact and benefits of agricultural
research in macroeconomic terms.
15.       Representative products and research lines have already been selected
for the study, including: rice, beans, banana, potato, lettuce, garlic, tomato,
African oil palm, rubber, food technology and basic seeds. An attempt would be
made to identify beneficiaries of research results among producers and consumers
and the effects of research output on rural employment and on the import and
exports of agricultural products. In assessing and quantifying the impact of
research on income distribution, particular emphasis would be placed on: (a) the
distributional impact among different regions of the country; (b) distribution
of gains among producers and between landholders and laborers in particular
regions; and (c) the distribution of gains between producers and consumers.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
16.       Most of the qualitative review of research programs would be conducted
by Brazilian and fcreign consultants hired during project implementation,
particularly for the mid-term project evaluation of 1984. Quantitative evalu-
ation would be executed principally by specialists from DDM and the respective
commodity research centers. The methods to be used for evaluating research
output would include: market analysis, considering producer and consumer
surplus; multi-dimensional utility functions; integrated planning, programing
and budgeting systems; cost benefit; administrative, planning and evaluation
systems for agricultural research; stochastic and risk analysis and production
functions. The met:hodological approach to be followed would vary with the type
of analysis and would be developed further by DDM during the first year of
project implementat:ion, in collaboration with consultants with practical
experience in this rather theoretical subject. DDM would be in charge of
coordinating the execution of project evaluation and of the preparation of the
mid-term and 1987 project evaluation.
17.       Total cost of the evaluation component is US$3.6 million (without
contingencies). The amount is rather high due to the fact that the project
covers a large area and has a potentially high number of beneficiaries. It
is, however, a just:ified investment, since it will aid EMBRAPA to better
understand the economics of new technology adoption and the farmers' research
needs over the long term. It would also help improve research planning. The
evaluation of a research project is an innovative and difficult task. EMBRAPA's
highly developed infrastructure, human resources and commitment of its
directorate to carry our this project component, however, increase the chances
for its successful implementation.
March 16, 1981



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Population and Distribution by Regions 1/
Area, Population and Demographic Density by Geographic Region, 1980
% or Rural   Inhab-
Area            Total Population       Rural Population -    to Total    itants2
'000 kin2    %       '000 Inhab.      %      '000 Inhab.      %     Population   Per km
North            3,581      42.0        5,867         4.9       2,390         5.5       40.7         1.6
Northeast        1,549       18.2      34,857        29.3      18,464        42.5       52.9        22.5
Southeast          925      10.9       51,728        43.5       8,081        18.6       15.6        56.o
Center-West      1,879       22.1       7,552         6.3       3,432         7.9       45.4         4.0
South              578        6.8      19,023        16.0      11,078        25.5       58.2        33.0
BRAZIL         8,512     100.0      119.027       100.0      43,445       100.0       36.5        14.0
1/  Based on 1980 Census (preliminary data).
Source: 1980 Census Data, Brazil.
May 1981
HD 
FJA W



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Land use Pattern
Area Allocated to Crops, Livestock and Forestry Activities, 1975
(000 ha)
Crop Area                              Livestock                      Forestry                    Productive
Region                                                                                                                     Agricultural          Total
Native    Improved
Region       Total    Annual   Perennial   Fallow    Total   Pastures   Pastures    Total   Native   Planted   Lands:  Not Utilized    Total
North          A14400       957       239          204     5,281      3,708       1,573   21,593   21,505         '88             2,926             31,200
Northeast      11,634    7,073    3,960            601    30,624    23,782        6,842   17,462   17,461          31           15,329              75,079
South          13,859   11,590    1,401           868    21,159    16,722         4,437    5,940    4,992         948            2,857              43,815
Southeast      10,787    7,835    2,596            356    47,276    35,717       11,559    8,022    6,457    1,565               3,171              69,256
Center-West    4,526    4,161         189          176    61,309    46,020       15,289   17,672   17,441         231             6,355             89,862
Brazil         42.206   31 616    8,385         2,205   165,649   125,949        39,700   70,689   67,856    2,863              30638              309212
Source:  Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, 1979 (IBGE).                                                                                                         X
November 1980



- 59 -                           ANNEX 3
Table 3
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
A. Area and Production of Selected Key Crops
(Data in Millions)
Crop                   1 9 7 8             1 9 7 9            1 9 8 0
(ha)    (tons)    (ha)    (tons)    (ha)    (tons)
Castorbeans            0.35      0.41     0.39      0.37      0.44      0.32
Cocoa                  0.54      0.31      0.61     0.29      0.61      0.34
Coffee                 2.87      1.20      2.98     1.32      2.98      1.29
Corn                  10.70    13.90    11.31    16.10    12.23    20.20
Cotton                 1.97      0.48      1.98     0.54      2.00      0.57
Dry edible beans       4.59      2.19      4.31     2.17      4.78      2.04
Oranges                0.46      7.85      0.55     8.20      0.56      8.84
Peanuts                0.25      0.35      0.29     0.47      0.32      0.55
Rice                   5.20      7.49      5.43     7.59      6.47      9.64
Soybeans               7.60    10.20       8.04    10.06      8.76    15.04
Sugarcane              1.68      8.86      1.50     7.76      1.40      6.97
Tobacco                0.26      0.33     0.30      0.40      0.30      0.39
Wheat                  2.79      2.69      3.83     2.28      3.14      2.50
Total               39.26    56.26    41.52    57.55    43.99    68.69
B. Value of Total Exports and Agricultural Exports, 1975-1980
(In US$ Billions)
Total                 Agricultural           Agriculture's
Exports                   Exports                 Share
1975              8.67                        4.91                 57%
1976             10.13                        6.20                 61%
1977             12.14                        7.70                 63%
1978             12.66                        6.78                 54%
1979             15.24                        7.34                 48%
1980             20.13                        9.46                 47%
Source: Ministry of Agriculture (SEPLAN), Bank of Brazil, and Foreign
Trade Office (CACEX).
March 1981



-60-                             ANNEX 3
Table 4
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Incremental Agricultural Production:
Conrtribution by Area and Production Increases Per Unit Area
(1947-1975)
Contribution              Contribution
Region                          by                         by
State/Territory                 Area Increase              Yield Increase
(%)                      (74)
North                                  99.94                       0.06
Rondonia                             97.80                       2.20
Acre                                104.46                     - 4.46
Amazonas                             94.97                       5.03
Roraima                              98.34                       1.66
Para                                 99.23                       0.77
Amapa                               196.96                     -96.96
Northeast                             101.80                     - 1.80
Maranhao                             64.37                      35.63
Piaui                               116.46                     -16.46
Ceara                               121.71                     -21.71
Rio Grande do Norte                 116.07                     -16.07
Paraiba                             115.79                     -15.79
Pernambuco                           83.44                      16.56
Alagoas                             120.51                     -20.51
Sergipe                             127.07                     -27.07
Bahia                                97.35                       2.65
Southeast                              80.26                      19.74
Minas Gerais                        115.00                     -15.00
Espirito                            103.81                     - 3.81
Rio de Janeiro                       95.04                       4.96
Sao Paulo                            59.39                      40.61
South                                  83.81                      16.19
Parana                               81.94                      18.06
Santa Cat:arina                      81.28                      18.72
Rio Grancle do Sul                   85.85                      14.15
Center-West:                          110.66                     -10.66
Mato Grosso                          96.75                       3.25
Goias                               115.55                     -15.55
Brazil                                  89.64                      10.16
Source: EMBRAPA
November 1980



- 61-                         ANNEX 3
BRAZIL                        Table 5
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Size of Livestock Herds
Cattle                              Goats
1.  India . . . . . . 181,651,000   1.  India . . . . . . 70,704,000
2.  USA . . . . . . . 116,256,000   2.  China . . . . . . 70,200,000
3. USSR  . . . . . . 112,690,000   3.  Pakistan  . . . . 25,597,0000'
4.  Brazil  . . . . .  89,000 000   4.  Nigeria . . . . . 24,188,000
5.  China . . . . . .  65,60.000  13.  Brazil  . . . . .  7,200,000
Pigs                                 Sheep
1.  China . . . . . . 288,321,000   1.  USSR  . . . . . . 141,025,000
2. USSR  . . . . . .  70,511,000   2.  Australia . . . . 131,510,000
3.  USA . . . . . . .  56,584,000   3.  China . . . . . . 88,000,000
4.  Brazil  . . . . .  37.600.000   4.  New Zealand . . . 60,380,000
5.  Poland  . . . . .  21,717,000  13.  Brazil  . . . . . 17,200,000
Equines (horses, mules, asses)      Buffaloes
1.  China . . . . . .  19,720,000   1.  India . . . . . . 61,043,000
2.  Mexico  . . . . .  12,960,000   2.  Pakistan  . . . . 11,869,000
3.  USA . . . . . . .   9,550,000   3.  Thailand  . . . .  5,536,000
4.  Brazil  . . . . .   9,350,000   4.  Philippines . . .  5,300,000
5.  WSSR  . . . . . .   6,242,000  17.  Brazil  . . . . .    300,000
Chickens
1.  China . . . . . . 1,373,675,000
2.  USSR  . . . . . .   845,000,000
3.  USA . . . . . . .   386,531,000
4.  Brazil  . . . . .   310.000.000
5.  Japan . . . . . .   300,000,000
Sotrce: FAO Yearbook - 1979
Brazil - Livestock by Regions
(expressed as percentage of total)
North-   South-             Central-
North    East      East    South      West
Cattle        2        18        35      21         25
Swine         4        28        19      40          9
Sheep         0.4      32         2      65          0.9
Goats         0.5      92         3       4          1
Equines       2        43        26      17         12
Buffaloes    44        20        12        7        19
Broiler
Chickens    2       10        53       34         1
Source:  Anuario Estatistico do Brasil - 1978
September 1980



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IT PRORECT
List of EMBRAPA E.serinent Stations
(Main Stations Involved in Project Execution)
Number of Staff
Acronym             Waste of Station                           Location                               Main Research Programs                                                  Tec c a. Ph.D.    Suert    Admin.    Tote I s  Area Served
CPATSA      Center for Agricultural Research              Petrolina - PE            (a)  Evaluation of the natural and socio-economic                   24    31        4         156           82        297       Northeast
in the Semi-Arid Tropics                                                     resources of the area
(b)  study of methods to apply above resources to
agricultural production
(c)  dcevelopment of prodoction systems for the
semi-arid tropicas also agricultural engineering
CPATiU      Center for Agricultural Research              Belem - PA               As Ior (a), (b) and (c) programs above plus,                         44    35         3        245          150         477      North
in the Humid Tropics                                                   forestry, rubber and Africian oil palm.
CPAC        Center for Agrieultural Research              Planaltina - DF           As for (a), (b) and (n) above plns focestry:engi..eer.Ing           22    41        14        242          124         443      Capos. Cerrados
for the Campos Cerrados
CNPAE       Center for Rice and Bean Research             Goiania - GO              Crop production research on rice and beans                            8    39       10        111           69         237      National
CNPA        Center for Cotton Research                    Caullpima Grande - PB   Crop production research  o cotton                                     16    18        1         93           57         185      National
CNPC        Center for Goat Research                      Sobral - CE               Crop prodction research on goats and  hairless sheep                 8      9       3         57           43         120      National
CNPMF       Center for Cassava and Tropical               Crue das Almas - PB   Crop production research on cansava and major tropical                   17     26       3        109           89         244      National
Fruits Research                                                        fruits
CNPSD       Center for Rubber and African Oil             Manaus - AM               Crop production  research on rubber and African, Oil Palm            10     14       1          63          47         135      National
Pals Research
CNPGC       Center for Beef Cattle Re-arch                Campo Grande - MT         Crop production for beef cattle and animal health program             7    32        7         101           61        208      National
CNPGL       Center for Dairy Cattle Research               Cnl. Pacheco - MC        Crop production for dairy cattle  nd animal health                   14    41        5         198           98        356      National
program
CNPMS       Ceeter for Maice and Sorghum Research   Sete Lagoas -MG                 Crop production research on maize and sorghum, also                   9    35        8         207           93        352      Natinsal
bioen.rgy
CNPSA       Center for Swime and Poultry Research   Concordia - SC                  Crop production for swine and poultry, animal health                 10    20        3          54           30        117      National
CTAA        Center for PFod Technology Research           Rio do Janeiro - RJ   Food storage, preversation and food products                             12     13       2          33           32         92      National
SPSB        Basic Seeds Program                           Brasilia - DU             Program for production of basic seeds and seed improve-              13    10        2         SII          124        267      National
sent
URPFCS      Regional Forestry Research Center              Colombo - PR             Forestry research and bioenergy program                               9       5       -         47           31          92      South
ITEPAE      State Research Station                        Altamira - PA             Adaptive research programs for crops of h-,,id tropies                10      I       -         25           45          81      Para
UEPAE       State Research Station                        Aracaju - SE              Crop prodoetise research on coconut                                    5    16        -         66           45         132      Sargipe
UEPAE       State Research Station                        Brasilia - DF             Crop production research on vegetable crops and                        5    28        5         77           75         193      Thmsnnal
bisenergy program
UEPAE       State Research Station                        Manaus - AM               Adaptive research programs for humid tropics                          II    10        -         65           36         122      Amazonas
UEPAT       Territory Research Statifo                    Porto  Velho - RO         Adaptive research programs for humid tropics                          14      6       -         40,          56         116      Roedonia
UEPAE       State Research Station                        Rio Branco - AC          Adaptive research programs for humid tropics                           13      3       -         41           35          92      Acre
UEPAE       State Research Statism                        Teresina - PI             Crop production research on Babace   and adaptive research            14   I1         -          53          26         104      Pi-ui
programs for semi-arid tropics                                                                                                                         r 4
UEPAE       State Research Station                        Bage - RS                Animal health and basic seed production program                         6    14        2         54           18          94      Rio Grande do Sul  i a
EMBRAPA    Headquarters                                   Brasilia - DF             Coordination of forestry, engineering and anioal health               52    67       26         62          548         755      National
programs
March 13i, IYR1                                                                                                                             TOTAL       356    525      99       2,317       2,014       5,311



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
List of EMBRAPA Staff 1/
CLASSIFICATION/NUMBER                            DISTRIBUTION BY REGION
CENTER-                                  H.Q.         H.Q. 2/   TOTALS
NORTH        NORTHWEST   WEST          SOUTH        SOUTHEAST   BRASILIA   SECONDMENT
Technical Staff Level:
Junior (I) (BSC)              93           124          64          60            64           52           25           482
Senior (II)  (MSc)            78           167         172         174           192          67            35           885
Senior (III) (Ph.D.)           4            12          46          26            38          26            10           162
SUB-TOTAL                  175           303         282         260           294         145            70         1,529
Support Staff                   492           674         746         639            681          62            9         3,303
CN
Administrative Staff            171           318          316        211            301         548           40         1,905
TOTALS:                    838         1,295       1,344       1,110         1,276         755           119         6,737
Distribution By
Region (%)                12.4         19.2         20.0        16.5         18.9          11.2          1.8         100%
1/ As of January 31, 1981.
2/  EMBRAPA Staff seconded to other agencies within the Ministry of Agriculture.
February 1981
U.)w



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
EMBRAPA:  Sources and Application of Funds, 1978-1981
Cr$'000 (current)
1978            1979            1980               1981
Income Sources
1.  Federal Government                            1,107,648       2,771,550        4,524,278        8,042,400
2.  Special projects                                334,601          371,618         414,727            -
3.  EMBRAPA receipts (sales, etc.)                   73,247         181,284          364,650          535,000
4.  Other contracts and agreements                   98,733          174,902         936,180          280,000
5. Federal operational
Credits (internal)                              439,948         206,452          758,567           56,000
Credits (external)                              105,653         194,885          811,527        1,100,000
6.  Balance from previous year's operation          109,095         240,556          155,091            -
Total Income/Sources                          2,268,925       4,141,247       7,965,020        10,013,400
Investments and Other Expenditures
1.  Civil works and land accquisition                74,875          280,495      1,000,063         1,386,500
2.  Equipment and other investments                  76,892         153,176          321,617          612,700
3.  Operational costs - salaries                  1,012,508       1,859,894       3,927,777         4,346,800
4.  Other operating expense                         410,803       1,102,265       1,382,752         2,317,300            X
5.  Transfers to state companies                    445,717         592,089       1,097,173         1,350,100
Total Expenditures/Category                   2,020,795       3,987,919       7,729,382        10,013,400
November 1980



_65                              ANNEX 3
Table 9
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Applied Technology: Maize and Beans; Cultivation Systems
Production and Land Area Equivalency Results from Maize
and Beans Planted Separately and Intercropped
(1)     (2)           (3)
Planting System                     Maize   Beans   Maize and Beans
(ha)    (ha)          (ha)
Treatments
With Improved (Selected) Seed and                  0.79    0.54           1.33
Irrigation, pest control and fertilizer          0.59    0.54          1.13
Irrigation and pest control                      0.56    0.58          1.14
Irrigation and fertilizer                        0.95    0.63          1.58
Pest control and fertilizer                      0.75    0.53          1.28
Irrigation only                                  0.86    0.53          1.39
Pest control only                                0.81    0.69          1.50
Fertilizer only                                  0.84    0.54          1.38
Improved (selected) seed only                    0.87    0.61          1.48
Using Unimproved (Unselected) Seed and             0.64    0.58           1.22
Irrigation, pest dontrol and fertilizer          0.64    0.45          1.09
Irrigation and pest control                      0.67    0.55          1.22
Irrigation and fertilizer                        0.69    0.67          1.36
Pest control and fertilizer                      0.77    0.56          1.33
Irrigation                                       0.70    0.80          1.50
Pest control                                     0.62    0.70          1.32
Fertilizer                                       0.77    0.66          1.33
Unimproved (unselected) seed only                0.62    0.63          1.25
Column 1: Productivity of maize planted as pure (single) crop.
Column 2: Productivity of beans planted as pure (single) crop.
Column 3: Productivity based on maize/beans as intercrop.
Source: Censo Agropecuario - Brazil/IBGE-1975.
March 1981



-  66 -                                      ANNEX  3
Table 10
EBAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
RESEARCH PROGRAM COSTS EY PROJECT CATEGORY
US$ MILLIONS
DEVELOPMENT  TECHNICAL    INCREMENTAL              BASE      CONTIN-         TOTAL   X OF TOTAL
RESEARCH PROGRAM              COSTS      ASSIST. COST OFERAT. COST            COST       GENCIES         COSTS       PROLECT
SEMI ARID TROPICS                   6b11           3.43          3.79         13.33         4.11         17,45         11.63
HUMID TROPICS                        4,99          2.21          2.75         9.95          3.07         13t01          8.67
CAMFOS CERRADOS                      0.74          1.73          1.43         3.90          1.10          5.00          3.33
RICE                                 0.22          0.82          1.01         2.04          0.58          2.63          1.75
EEANS                                0.33          1.07          0.93         2.33          0,66          2,99          1.99
VEGETAELES                           0.51          0.71          1.31         2.53          0.74          3.27          2.18
FRfUITS                              3.88          0.53          1.11         5.51          1.83          7.35          4,90
GOCONUT                              0.96          0.26          1.06         2.28          0.69          2.97          1.98
AFRICAN OIL PALM                     4.64          0.75          1.81         7.20          2t39          9.59          6.39
PABACU                               0.37          0.53          1.37         2,26          0,63          2,89          1.92
KtiBER                               1.44          0.57          0.00         2.01          0.64          2.65          1,77
FORESTRY                             2.38          1.30         2,10          5.78          1.75          7.53          5,02
BASIC SEED                           7.59          0.48          0.00         8.07          2.88         10.95          7.30
AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING             1.60          0.80          1.86         4.26          1.31          5,58          3,72
FOOD TECHNOLOGY                      1.00          0.47          1.53         3.00          0.94          3,94          2.62
EIOENERGY                            2,89          1.17         2.57          6.63          2.13          8.76          5.83
ANIMAL HEALTH                        3.85          1.47         3.49          8.80          2.82         11.62          7.74
INFORMATION & DOCUMENT'N.            7.05         0[80          0,49          8.34          2.57         10,91          7,27
EVALUATION                           0.09          1.09         2.42          3.60          0.86          4.46          2.97
OTHER  (1)                           0.00         13.20          0.00        13.20          3.35         16,55         11.03
TOTAL  (2)                          50.63         33.37        31,02        115.02         35.06        150.08        100,00
(1)  FOR DETAILS OF OTHER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COST,WHICH INCLIUDES CONTRACT RESEARCH.
SEE STAFF WORKING FAFER 22, TABLE 4
(2) DUE TO THE CONERfSION FROiM US$ THOUSANDS TO US$ MILLIONS. THE SUWARY
TAELE MAY VARY SLIGHTLY FROM THE SUMS OF THE INDIVNIAL PROGRAM WORKIN  PAPERS
April 1981



BRAZIL
AURICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Civil Works and
__-Development Cost Summary 1/
(Us$'000)
Research                    Total
Civil       Farm          Land      Development                    Agric. 2/   Furnish& Equip.                      Library &
Program by Location               Works   Development   Purchase          Costs       Vehicles 2/   Equip.         Office Scientific    Total    Doc. ervice 3/
1.  Farming Systems Semi-Arid Tropics
(a)  CPATSA - Petrolina                  155.8       135.0                        290.8          493.0       135.0          244.0    110.0       1,272.6
(b)  CNPA - Campina Grande               871.4         50.0           -           921.4           95.0        45.0           36.0    150.0       1,247.4
(c)   1%PAL - Penedo                     837.7         15.0           -           883.7           87.0        45.0           10.0      33.0      1,027.7
(d)  EMPARN - Caico                       92.0       300.0            -           392.0          216.0        90.0          110.0      44.0        852.0
(e)  UEPAE - Teresina                    309.8         14.0         120.0         443.8           49.0        15.0            7.0      80.0        594.8
(f)  CNPMF - Cruz das Almas              480,5          -             -           480.5           93.0        30.0           17.0      22.0        642.5
(g)  CNPC - Sobral                         -            -             -             -             67.0        30.0            -       150.0        247.0
Subtotal                          2,747,2       514.0          120.0       3,381.2       1,100.0        390.0         424.0    589.0        5,884.2        230.0
2.  Farming Systems Humid Tropics
(a)  CPATU - BELEM                       714.7       230.0            -           944.7            -           -             15.0    126.0       1,085.7
(b)  UEPAE - Altamira                    133.8        45.0           60.0         238.8           39.0        15.0           27.0      32.0        351.8
(c)  UEPAE - Manaus                       -           165.0           -           165.0          141.0        90.0           60.0      49.0        505.0
(d)  UEPAE - Rio Branco                1,556.3         25.0           -         1,581.3           71.0        45.0           42.0      47.0      1,786.3
(e)  UEPAT - Porto Velho                 394.9        145.0         200.0         739.9          179.0        90.0           33.0      50.0      1,091.9
Subtotal                          2,799.7       610.0          260.0       3,669.7         430.0        240.0         177.0    304.0        4,820.7        165.0
3.  Farming Systems Cerrados
(a)  CPAC - Planaltina                    --          115.0           -           115.0          257.0        90.0          150.0      35.0        547.0          90.0
4.  Bioenergy
(a)  CPATSA - Petrolina                  104.6          -             -           104.6           17.0                       15.0    150.0         286.6
(b)  SNPMS - Sete Lagoas                 840.4          -             -           840.4          208.o        30.0            -       500.0      1,578.4
(c)  CNPMF - Cruz das Almas                 2.9                       -              2.9          81.0        15.0           30.0    150.0         278.9
(d)  CPATU - Belem                         -            -             -             -             17.o         -                      150.0        167.0
(e)  CPAC - Planaltina                     -            -             -             -             17.0         -              -       150.0        167.0
(f)  UEPAE - Brasilia                     -             -             -             -             81.0        15.0           15.0    150.0         261.0
Subtotal                            947.9          -             -           947.9         421.0         60.0           60.0  1,250.0       2,738.9        155.0        a HD
1/  Prices as of mid 1981.                                                                                                                                                             w
2/  Includes approximately IW7 for spares and miscellaneous,
3/  Library and documentation service equals approximately
MarcPl glf incremental program operation cost except Information and Documentation and Evaluation Programs.



Research                     Total
Civil      Farm          Land      Development                   Agric. 1/   Furnish & Equip.                    Library &
Program by Location              Works   Development   Purchase         Costs      Vehicles 1/   Equip.        Office Scientific    Total    Doc. Service 2/
5.  Agricultural Engineering
(a)  CNPIMS - Sete Lagoas               307.4         -             -           307 4          53.0       100.0          15.0    150.0        625.4
(b)  CNPA - Campina Grande               61.5         -             -            61.5          54.0       30.0           10.0     50.0        205.5
(c)  CPATU - Belem                        -           -             -             -            53.0       40.0           10.0     50.0        153.0
(d)  CPAC - Planaltina                    -           _             _             -            54.0       100.0          10.0     50.0        214.0
(e)  CPATSA - Petrolina                   -           _             -             -            53.0       40.0           10.0     50.0        153.o
(f)  CNPAF - Goiania                      -           -             -             -            54.0        30.0          10.0     50.0        144.0
Subtotal                           368.9         -             -           368.9         321.0      340.0           65.0    400.0      1,494,9        110.0
6.  Rubber
(a)  CNPSD - Manaus                     776.9       215.0           -           991.9         124.0        45.0          16.0    162.0      1,388.9        100.0
7. African Oil Palm
(a)  CNPSD - Manaus                   2,624.0       500.0          30.0       3,154.0         267.0       120.0          38.0    951.0 3/  4,530.0         110.0
8.  Forestry
(a)  URPFCS - Colombo                   668.o        65.0           -           733.0        219.0        30.0           77.0     63.0      1,122.0
(b)  CPAC - Planaltina                    -          35.0           -            35.0          53.0        15.0          20.0      12.0        135.0
(c)  CPATU - Belem                      157.5        65.0           -           222.5         54.0        515.0          25.0     23.0        839.5
(d)  CPATSA - Petrolina                   -          35.0           -            35.0         5,4.0        15.0          20.0     31.0         155.0
Subtotal                           825.5       200.0           -        1,025.5         380.0       575.0         142.0    129.0       2,251.5        125.0
9.  Vegetables
(a)  UEPAE - Brasilia                     -           -             -             -            43.0        15.0           8.0    100.0        166.0
(b)  UEPAE - Altamira                     -           -             -             -             6.0         -             8.0     60.0         74.0
(c)  UEPAT - Porto Velho                  -           -             _             -             6.0         -             8.0     40.0         54.0
(d)  UEPAE - Rio Branco                   -           -             _             -             6.0         -             8.0     60.0         74.0
(e)  UEPAE - Manaus                       -           -             -             -             6.0         -             8.0     60.0         74.0
Subtotal                             -           -             -             -            67.o        bSJO         40.0    320.0         442.o         70.0
1/  Includes 10% for spares and miscellaneous.
2/  Library and documentation service equals approximately
6% of incremental program operation cost except Information and Documentation and Evaluation Programs.                                                                   H W
3/  Includes pilot palm oil processing plant and equipment estimated to cost $500.0, Soils and Lab
equipment $190.0 and Plant Breeding Lab. equipment $115.0.
March 1981



Research                    Total
Civil       Farm          Land      Development                   Agric. 1/   Furnish & Equip.                     Library &
Program by Location             Works   Development   Purchase         Costs       Vehicles 1/   Equip.         Office Scientific    Total    Doc. Service l/
10.  Basic Seed
(a)  SPSB- Brasilia                   4,522.8        840.0           -         5,262.8         313.0       210.0           10.0  1,590.0      7,485.8         100.0 2/
11.  Food Technology
(a)  CTAA - Rio de Janeiro                 -           -             -             -            89.0        10.0           12.0    800.0 5/    911.0           90.0
12.  Coconut
(a)  UEPAE - Aracaju                     580.7       200,0 4/        -           780.7           37,0       15.0            9.0     40.0         881.7         75.0
13.  Fruits
(a)  CNPF - Cruz das Almas            2,960.7        750.0 6/        -         3, 't1.7          39.0       15.0           20.0      28.0      3,812.7         70.0
14.  Babasau
(a)  UEPAE - Teresina                     97.0         9.0          30.0         136.0          34-0        80.0           10.0      20.0        280.0         05.0
15.  Rice
(a)  CMPAF - Goiania                     100.0         -             -           100.0          34.0        15.0            -        10.0        159.5         60.0
16.  Beans
(a)  CNPAF - Goiania                     100.0         -             -           100.0          77.0        80.0            -        20.0        277.0         55.0
17.  Animal Health
(a)  All Stations                      1,069.5         -             -         1,069.5         154.0         15.0         100.0  2,300.0       3,638.5        210.0
18.  Information and Documentation
(a)  EMBRAPA - Brasilia                    -           -             -              -             -           -            50.0    200.0         250.0      6,800.0
9.  Evaluation
(a)  All Stations                          -          -              -             -            53.0         -            10.0      25.3         88.3           2.0 2/
20,520.8    3,953.0          440.0      24,913.8       4,197.0    2,315.0        1,333.0  9,173.3    41,932.1         8,702.0
-,                           =                         -,        - =          =             =3
1/  Includes approximately 10% for spares and miscellaneous.                                                                                                                       O  
2/  Estimated lump sum amount.                                                                                                                                                     I
3/  Library and documentation service equals approximately                                                                                                                           H
6% of incremental program operation cost except Information and Documentation and Evaluation Programs.
4/  Includes 250 ha of new coconut palm plantings.
5/  Includes pilot plant flour milling equipment estimated to cost $500.0.
6/  Subdivision development for Staff housing including roads, electrical distribution, etc.
March 1981



-70-                                        ANNEX 3
Table 12
E;AIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II FROJECT
PHASED F1ROJECT COST SUMMARY
PY-1      PY-2      F'Y-3    FPY-       PY-5      PY-6    TOTAL
MILLIONS  OF US$ ROUtDED
I. DEVELGOFMENT CGSTS
1.CIVIL WORKS                     2105      5,13      7.19      4.10      2,05       0.00     20.52
2.VEHICLES & FNFY EQUIPMENT       1.63      1.63      0.65      1.30       1.30      0.00      6,51
3,OFFICE & LAEBORATORY EQUIP,    0D00       2,63      3.15      3.15       1,53      0.00     10.51
4,LICRARY e, DCUMENT SERNICE      2.18      2.18      1472      1,31       1.31      0.00      8,70
5,RESEARCH FARTi DEVELOPMEENT     0.10      1.19      1,17       0,99      0.20      0.00      3195
6.LAND PURCHASE.                  0.22      0,22      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.0C 04e
SUBTOTAL DEVELOPMENT COST      6.48     12,98     13.88     10,85      6.ii       0.00     50,63
IIJTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS
IX1,aNSULTAITS                    1.99      2.66      2.66      2.66      1.99       1.33     13.29
2.FELLOWSHIFS
LONC TERM                 0.19      0.98      1.18      1.17      0.78       0,29      4.89
SHORT l!EFM               0,30      0.l0      0.39     0Cl0       0.30       0.20      1.99
SUBTOTAL FELLOWSHIPS           0,79      1.3B     157       1.57       1.08      0.19      6,88
3*OTHER TECHICAL ASSISTANCE       1.90      2.75      2.40      2.65      2,00       1.50     13,20
SUBTOTAL TECH.ASSISTANCE       1.68      6,79      6.63      6.B8      5,07       3.32     33,37
III,INCREMEN4TAL OPERATING COST
i.SALARIES & WGES                 0.76      2,91      4.60      6,18      7,42       0,00     21,95
2.OTHER OPERATIONAL COST          0.65     090       1,92.     2.50      3.10       0.00      9.07
SUBTOTAL OPERATING COST        1.41      3.81      6.60      8.68      10.52      0.00     31.02
IV.PfRECT BASE COST               12.57     23.58     27.11     26411     22.03       3.32    115.02
YXCONTINGENCIES
1.PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (x)     0D75       1.59     1l81       1.34       0.76      0.00      6.25
2.PRICE CONTINGENCIES             0,56      3.12      6,07      8,30       9112      1.64     28.81
SUBTOTAL CCNTINGENCIES         1.31      i.71      7,88      9,64      9t88       1.61     35.06
VIJTOTAL FPROJEC  COST             13.88     28,29     31.99     36.05      31.91     4196    150.08
(x) FIFTEEN PERCENT OF CI!IL WORKS AND FARM DEVELOPMENT. FtUIS 10 OOF VEHICLES AND
FARM EGUIPMENT. LAEORATORY EQUIPMENT, AND LIBRARY & DOCUIMENTATION SERVICES.
April 1981



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement by Category
Proposed Allocations of the Proceeds of the Loan
(US$'000)
Category                                                   Project Years
Expenditure
to be Financed                           1        2         3         4       5        6     TOTAL
1.  Consultants                                1,100    2,700    2,700    2,800   2,000   1,200   12,500
(a)  Expatriate                   100%
(b)  Brazilian                     80%
2.  Contract Research and Other                1,100    1,150    1,700    1,600   1,500         950    8,000
Technical Assistance
(a)  Foreign                      100%
(b)  Brazilian                      35%
3.  Fellowships                                   550    1,000    1,150    1,150       800      350    5,000
(a)  Outside Brazil               100%
(b)  In Brazil                     35%
4.  Civil Works including detailed             1,150    2,250    3,000    1,600        -        -      8,000
Engineering and Design              35%
5.  Vehicles, Office, Farm and                 1,500    4,000    5,200    5,000   4,800         -     20,500
Laboratory Equipment;
Library and Documentation
Materials and Equipment
(a)  Imported                      100%
(b)  Locally produced                40%
6.  Special Account                            1,500    1,500        -        -        -        -      3,000
7.  Unallocated                                  -         -         750      750      -     1,500    3,000
TOTAL                                    6,900   12,600   14,500   12,900   9,100   4,000   60,000
Date May 14. 1981             .                                                             l



- 72 -                           ANNEX 3
Table 14
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$rO 00)
Disbursements
Bank Fiscal        Quarter                                              Balance
Year            Ending          In Quarter         Cumulative        of Loan
1982            Sept. 30            -                  -              60,000
Dec.  31          2,200 1/           2,200            57,800
Mar.  31          2,300              4,500            55,500
June  30          2,400             6,900             53,100
1983            Sept. 30          3,100             10,000            50,000
Dec.  31          3,100            13,100             46,900
Mar.  31          3,100            16,200             43,800
June  30          3,300            19,500             40,500
1984            Sept. 30          3,500             23,000            37,000
Dec.  31          3,500            26,500             33,500
Mar.  31          3,600            30,100             29,900
June  30          3,900            34,000             26,000
1985            Sept. 30          3,300             37,300            22,700
Dec.  31          3,300            40,600             19,400
Mar.  31          3,200            43,800             16,200
June  30          3,100            46,900             13,100
1986            Sept. 30          2,400             49,300            10,700
Dec.  31          2,300            51,600              8,400
Mar.  31          2,200            53,800              .6,200
June  30          2,200            56,000              4,000
1987            Sept. 30          1,500             57,500             2,500
Dec.  31          1,500            59,000              1,000
Mar.  31            500            59,500                500
June  30            500            60,000                -
1/   Includes US$500,000 of retroactive financing for expenditures incurred
before loan effectiveness.                                         I
May 14, 1981



-73 -                            ANNEX 3
Table 15
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Incremental Staffing by Program
Research Program               Scientific              Support         Total
Senior     Junior   Research   Admin.    Total
Semi-Arid Tropics                  9          16         91         25         141
Humid Tropics                     14           6         80         20         120
Campos Cerrados                    4           7         44         13          68
Rice                               2           5         28          8          43
Beans                              1           6         28          8          43
Vegetables                         6           2         30          9          47
Fruits                             5           2         28          8          43
Coconut                            3           2         24          7          36
African Oil Palm                   9           3         42         10          64
Babassu                             4           4        27          7          42
Rubber                             -           _          _          _           _
Forestry                           8           4         48         15          75
Basic Seed                        15          12        129         28         184
Agricultural Engineering           6           5         44         11          66
Food Technology                    7           5         36         11          59
Bioenergy                         11           5         64         17          97
Animal Health                      8          15         80         25         128
Information & Documentation        1           2         12          3          18
Evaluation                         9           1          3         16          29
Total All Programs             122         102        838        241      1,303
Source: Bank mission estimate
March 1981



74 -                                                  ANNEX 3
Chart 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION FOR EMBRAPA HEADQUARTERS, BRASILIA
oTehicalr of                         MfAdinstato
iculture                                                              a
Executive     |
Board o
President
Tcoecy nical and E                                                           President's
Adm nistrative                                                             Cabine
Planning        Experi     al                                                               I      l AIunternational
aLeg3 Off ice   _-                                                   Cooperatio n
office
D i,^^retors (   1
| Superintendent    l|                                                         Superintendent      l
of Tec:hnical                              __of Administration
Services                                                                  and Finance
[    Department of                 Department of                                  Department of    l                        o
Science and                   Analysis and                            General Administration ofcounting
Huma  Resourcesg
Technology                     Evaluation                                 and Procurement
[__Department of                                                                                                                    l
Dprgarmentanning       L        Experimental                                                        _       Internal Audit     l
nfogrmation and                                                                                                Office
andocumgentation      lStatistics
Departmet of                  Departmeent ofS
g  Diffusion of                                      a Human ResourcesSi
Technology          |    ||
|Department of
| Information and 
| Documentation       l
|   and Services       l
Source: EMBRAPA, Brasilia
March 1981                                                                                                  World Bank-22719



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Project Years             1             2             3             4             5              6
1. Retroactively Financed Physical Planning
2. Identification of New Land
3. Purchase of Land
4. Farming Systems Base Line Study
5. Evaluation of Base Line Study
6. Development of Methodology for Project
Evaluation
7. Preparation of Investment Plan
8. Investment Plan Updates                                                 _     -       _      _
9. Construction of Facilities                                      _    _            -     -                      -
10. Purchase of Vehicles and Farm Equipment
11. Purchase of Office and Laboratory Equipment
12. World Bank Supervision Mission                              _      m      _      m      _             m       m _           m _
13. Mid-term Review and End of Project Evaluation
14. EMBRAPA Sponsored International
Conferences
15. Selection of Fellowship Candidates
16. Selection of Consultants and Contracting
of Services                                                                                                                                                                  P) t
Source: Bank Mission Estimate                                                                                                                                                    N
March 1981                                                                                                                World Bank - 22624



- 76 -                             ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
LIST OF SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A-1   Country Economic Memorandum, Brazil
Report No. 3274-BR of December 24, 1980
A-2   Brazil:  Financial Systems Review
Report No. 2790a-BR, November 18, 1980
A-3   The Int;egrated Development of Brazil's Northwest Frontier
Report No. 3042a-BR, December 23, 1980
A-4   A Review of Agricultural Policies in Brazil
Report No. 3305-BR, January 29, 1981
B.  Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1   III Basic Scientific and Technological Development Plan
1980-1985 SEPLAN, Brasilia, Brazil (in Portuguese)
Brasilia, 1980
B-2   Appraisal of the Agricultural Research I Project
Report No. 1031a-BR, April 15, 1976
B-3   Brazil:  Agricultural Extension I Project:
Staff Appraisal Report
Report No. 1879-BR, May 3, 1978
B-4   Brazil:  Agricultural Productivity
EMBRAPA, Brasilia, 1979
B-5   Program for National Agricultural Research (PRONAPA), 1980,
EMBRAPA, Brasilia, 1980
C.  Selected Staff Working Papers and Tables Prepared by Mission Members
C-1   The Agricultural Sector
C-2   Agricultural Research Services
C-3   Research Program for Farming Systems in the Arid and
Semi-Arid Tropics
C-4   Research Program for Farming Systems in the Humid Tropics
C-5   Research Program for Farming Systems in the Campos Cerrados
C-6   National Research Program for Rice
C-7   National Research Program for Beans
C-8   National Research Program for Vegetables
C-9   National Research Program for Fruits
C-10  National Research Program for Coconut
C-ll  National Research Program for Oil Palm
C-12  National Research Program for Babassu
C-13  National Research Program for Rubber
C-14  National Research Program for Forestry
C-15  National Research Program for Basic Seed
C-16  National Research Program in Agricultural Engineering
C-17  National Research Program for Food Technology
C-18  National Research Program for Bioenergy
C-19  National Research Program for Animal Health
C-20  The Information and Documentation System for EMBRAPA
C-21  Civil Works and Development Costs
C-22  Project Cost Estimates
C-23  Monitoring and Evaluation



t    (VENEZUEkA(NNC                                                                                                                        S
COLQM5IA/                              ~~~~~~~~~~oa Vista9/                      /      ifBAI
u                                I   ~~~AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
C  \ )                                   7 N                   /5~~~~~~~~~~OCIPI              Loctio of PROJECT
Loctio   ofResearch Stations
      >~~~~~~~~~~ sK~~~~~~~~~~ii 
ler ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~el L~~~~~rsertI                                                                         Trsn
/3~~~~~~~~/ 1,oao,                                                                                            otl
J.                                                                                               tcl)TIm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '  akina   tnjoao Pessoa
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~          ~         ~        ~ ~ 'Su'rubim
'le  /,*Porto                                                          Pic "00    U. Pulmor6so ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-iRecife
(  ~ ~ ~ ?%a   /  ~~~~  K  ~ ~ ~ .        '-9                                               PEirOl~~~~~~i.,p                     aah
PEkU           i\~~ LPra Ih                                                                              /                                                                            1
Vilhen"(-V lhenI9           ,                                                              Cruz dos Almais
''                                         '                     / 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ajvador
7,                                        -j               ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Cuiab6          /
N  ~~~~~  ~   ~          ~             :      'S    r~~~~~~~~~~>    ~~    BRASILIAt '-Pl6anltIn%< 
7'    C  I            -.      ,   ( ,                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ipo Grande           Se e   g     'jPVedro Leopoldo
-,   ,  /                                    ,                        ;'c  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~~Bela Horizonte *'cra
A   ""i                                                                                     C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  nl. Pacheco  -                                  205
KChI!I-E?                 V    \.A                                              - "' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R5, dleTneiro
PontaPaulo                                         EMRRAPARHEADQUJARTERS -NATIONAL CAPITAL
rossa '-                       0    ~~~~~~~SEED PRIODUCTION CENTERS
-      (               F'                                                       V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  EERH EVC CENTERS
12l FIELD EXPERIMENT EJNITS
-  /~~~C'~~~ ~~               &S'ConcordI4 ~ ~~~~~--) ~ANIMAL HEALTH PROGRAM ~It8A  ETR
ERAZIL ~~~~~  -                                       ,,/' Posso   , ~~~~~~~~ Florian60olIs                        n      AREA AGArUCLLTU/RAK RESEARCH CENTERS
B R A Z I L               -         R        EN~ TIlAiFsdo0                                                                                  NATIONAL COMMODITY CENTERS
'-,Rros,Lo  (   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  j   -                            - /                                   N ~~~~~~~~~~~UEPAE OR SATE LLITE STATIONS
-  -                                                  J                       S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ STATE AND TERRITORY CAPITALS
'*eid    M; -~~~~~~K,~~ha  21    i       ~        ~        ,0                                            TOWNS
V  N, ~~~~~~~~/                                 - ~~~~STATE ASS TERRITORY BOUNDARIES
N~Bage  
OC'ThdOiCOS ,I,,wv  ,,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    RISERS0
moet,v,~1. voHsp.ofo5~         j'150    2050    300 MILES
Wiv5&~~~kgodEsotf ~ ~           ~          i 4tU5Ysaco
I oerfrpmIof,oet,, e,Idd','vv,vm        'p>      ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       40-30, 



t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD184
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
r;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BAII



