Document of                FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3077-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA - EMBRAPA
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
May 28, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance Of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980          May 26, 1981
Currency Unit             Cruzeiro (Cr$)          Cr$
US$1             =        Cr$53.25                Cr$84.26
Cr$1             =        US$0.019                US$0.012
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACI                Advisory Office for International Cooperation
of EMBRAPA
ASTER/EMATER       Territorial/State Agricultural Extension
Corporations and Agencies
COMPATER           National Commission for Agricultural Research
and Technical Assistance in Rural Extension
EMBRAPA            Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation
EMBRATER           Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
EMBRAPA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$60 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 9.6% interest per annum
Project
Description:       The project would increase the capacity of Brazil's
national agricultural research agency (EMBRAPA) to expand
several of the research programs being carried out under
the first project as well as support several major new
programs. The project provides for the following com-
ponents:
(a) research infrastructure development, including:
(i) civil works, comprising mainly ancillary
buildings and an irrigated seed production
unit, and construction of office buildings and
staff houses in remote areas;
(ii) equipment, comprising mainly scientific
instruments, laboratory equipment, vehicles,
farm equipment and laboratory and office
furniture; and
(iii) library and documentation services, mainly
journals, periodicals and reference books,
and microfilm equipment;
(b)  technical assistance and training comprising about
156 man-years of consultancy services, postgraduate
degree training for 205 staff, short-term fellow-
ships for a further 340 staff and contract research;
and
(c)  incremental operating costs comprising the salaries
and associated costs of scientists and support staff
and operating costs for vehicles, equipment and
facilities included in the project.
The project would be implemented over a six-year period,
beginning in 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1.1 -
Risks:               The main risks associated with the project relate
to the adequacy of linkages between the research and
extension functions, to the efficiency of the research
Drograms, and to the need to adapt research programs
to periodic shifts in the Government's agricultural
policies. Measures for improving research programming,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and close
association among the Government's various agricultural
and rural development programs, should help to strengthen
the linkages between research and extension, promote
more efficient administration, and allow for better
adjustment of research Programs to shifts in policy.
Estimated Cost:                                                -------US$ Million-------
Local    Foreign    Total
Development Costs
Civil Works                            16.42       4.10      20.52
Vehicles and Farm Equipment             4.88       1.63       6.51
Office and Laboratory Equipment         3.68       6.83      10.51
Library and Document Services           2.61       6.09       8.70
Research Farm Development               3.55       0.40       3.95
Land Purchase                           0.44           -      0.44
Subtotal                            31.58      19.05      50.63
Technical Assistance Costs
Consultants                             1.99      11.30      13.29
Fellowships                             2.89       3.99       6.88
Contract Research and Other
Technical Assistance Costs            2.64      10.56      13.20
Subtotal                             7.52      25.85      33.37
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries and Wages                     21.95          -      21.95
Other Operation Cost                    7.26       1.81       9.07
Subtotal                            29.21       1.81      31.02
Project Base Cost 1/                     68.31      46.71    115.02
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                  4.12       2.13       6.25
Price Contingencies                    17.66      11.15      28.81
Subtotal                            21.78      13.28      35.06
Total Project Cost                       90.09      59.99    150.08
1/   At March 1981 prices in cruzeiros, converted into US dollars at an exchange
rate of CrS73.01 = US$1.00, further adjusted in dollar terms to estimated
June 1981 price levels.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                                 -------US$ Million…------
Local    Foreign    Total
Government                                 90.1          -       90.1
IBRD                                          -       60.0       60.0
90.1       60.0      150.1
Estimated
Disbursement:                          ---------US$ Million Equivalent…-------
Rank FY  1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual               6.9   12.6   14.5   12.9    9.1    4.0
Cumulative           6.9   19.5   34.0   46.9   56.0   60.0
Rate of Return:       Because of the nature of the project, no rate of return
has been calculated.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 3357a-BR, dated May 25, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the EmDresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria with the guarantee
of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$60 million to
help finance a Second Agricultural Research Project. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on the
work of an economic mission that visited Brazil in March 1980 and was updated
in August 1980. The mission's report will be distributed shortly.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its
attention has had to be devoted to grappling with accelerating inflation and a
deteriorating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the
Government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success
on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards
and a better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        Over the past 13 years Brazil has enjoyed remarkable economic growth.
with GDP and income per capita rising at average real rates of about 9% and
6% per year, respectively. During the 1967-1973 period, growth was achieved
with no significant deterioration of the external resource balance, despite
considerable trade liberalization, and there also occurred a gradual decline in
the rate of domestic inflation. Given the heavy dependence of Brazil's industry
and transport system on petroleum, however, over 80% of which was imported, the
quadrupling of oil prices at the end of 1973 resulted in a sharp deterioration
in the nation's terms of trade. Excess aggregate demand and a succession of
bad harvests have, along with increased energy costs, resulted in increasing
balance-of-payments difficulties and the reacceleration of domestic inflation.
1/   This section is reproduced without substantial change from the economic
section of the President's Report on the Alcohol and Biomass Energy
Development Project (No. P-3039-BR, dated April 23, 1981). It is identical
to the corresponding section of the President's Report for the Piaui
Rural Development Project (Report No. P-3078-BR), being distributed at
about the same time as this report.



- 2 -
5.        Coping with these short-term constraints while responding to
continuing pressures to maintain high growth rates of output and employment
and simultaneously establishing the basis for long-term structural adjustment
has been the central problem of Brazilian economic management during the past
seven years. Considerable success has been achieved in maintaining rapid
growth, and an aggressive and innovative effort has been launched to reduce
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were successfully
contained through the continued rapid expansion of exports, particularly of
manufactures, increased import barriers, accelerated import substitution, and
heavy external borrowing, including large additions to international reserves.
6.        Any significant reduction in Brazil's dependence on imported petro-
leum, however, necessarily involves a long gestation period. Meanwhile, the
rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports and intensification
of domestic inflationary pressures have been increasing the economy's vulner-
ability to further external shock. That vulnerability is being severely
tested by the additional sharp increases in petroleum prices and international
interest rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
7.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural output
suffered a second consecutive year of droughts, floods, and frost but showed
some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP growth was
6.4%. High demand, the poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in
a rapid acceleration of inflation which reached 78% by the end of year, the
highest rate since 1964.
8.        Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to a progressive deteriora-
tion of Brazil's balance of payments. Despite the continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from a small surplus
in 1977 to a US$1.0 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.7 billion deficit in
1979. The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978 to 1979 by 53%, or
US$2.2 billion. Increases in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), to
which more than 65% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed to raising
gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to US$5.3 billion
in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from US$5.9
billion to US$9.7 billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.
9.        With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion
was provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrow-
ings in 1979, including bond issues totaled US$11.6 billion and US$5.0 billion,
respectively. Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary
credits, and an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available
to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves
to US$9.7 billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about 6 months of
goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt had
risen to US$51 billion, or 25% of GDP.



10.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were followed
by new packages of measures in December 1979 and in January and April 1980. The
most important of the December measures were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro,
accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the prior deposit
requirement on imports; increased restrictions on public enterprise investments,
imports and borrowing; selected tax increases; the introduction of a programmed
phase-out of most tax earmarking; a modification of administered credit programs
intended to reduce subsidies; the imposition of direct controls on credit
expansion by the private banking system; and the establishment of ceilings on
monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment during 1980 and the first
half of 1981 in an effort to dampen inflationary expectations.
11.       Nevertheless, the economic momentum continued in 1980, with overall
economic growth exceeding 8%, including an excellent agricultural harvest and
continued rapid industrial expansion. Aggregate demand remained strong,
despite improved fiscal and monetary restraint, and inflation rose to over
110%, as measured by the General Price Index.
12.       On the external side, preliminary estimates are that exports grew by
32% in 1980 as a consequence of the excellent harvest and continued expansion
of manufactured exports despite the slow growth of the world economy. Imports
expanded almost as fast, however, in response to the continued strong growth
of the economy, higher petroleum prices, and some private sector inventory
accumulation early in the year in anticipation of possible tighter import
controls. Despite the rapid growth of industrial output and GDP, the volume
of petroleum imports fell from 1,003 thousand b/d in 1979 to 929 thousand b/d
in 1980 as a result of conservation efforts and domestic energy substitution.
Nevertheless, the trade deficit for the year totaled an estimated US$2.8 bil-
lion. External borrowing totaled about US$15 billion (including an estimated
US$2-3 billion of short-term borrowing), and reserves were drawn down by an
additional US$3.5 billion, falling to about $6.9 billion 1/ by the end of the
year. Although Brazil was able to obtain the required USS5-6 billion net
external financing, loan terms were tighter. Total medium- and long-term
external debt outstanding at the end of 1980 was about US$56 billion.
13.       A number of important policy measures have been announced for 1981.
Controls on public expenditures have been further tightened, and monetary
expansion is targeted at 50-60%. In an effort to encourage private savings
and maintain adequate export incentives, monetary correction will be brought
into line with actual inflation, and the exchange rate will again be fully
adjusted for the differential between domestic and international inflation.
Commercial banks have been freed from interest rate controls, interest rates
on official credits have been raised, and price controls are being progressively
relaxed. An increase in the foreign exchange transactions tax on imports from
15 to 25% will further discourage imports. Although the net impact of these
measures may be some short-term increase in inflation, the overall result
should be greater restraint of aggregate demand, a slowdown of economic
activity and reduced pressure on the balance of payments.
1/   Including gold and dollar valuation adjustments.



-4-
Poverty Programs
14.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to general efforts to maintain the growth of employment
and prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the Northeast
region have been protected from the present tight fiscal and monetary restraints.
Coverage of the social security program has been expanded and extended to the
rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is now covered by the
social security health care system, and a cash transfer program has been
established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter system, rural
households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible to receive a
monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is almost twice
the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The urban popula-
tion over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2 million loans have
been made for housing by the National Housing Bank since 1964. A sites and
services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor more
directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to the
extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some 6 million
households comprising about 30 million people have been connected to public
water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers
who receive such services to 75%. Efforts have also been made to attack the
poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
15.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce the drain on the
economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated,
and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with
PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to
develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear
power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to expand domestic
coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation.
While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported energy remains
a formidable problem. With oil imports costing an estimated US$10.2 billion
(nearly 45% of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to US$700
million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and balance-of-
payments viability will continue to be a principal preoccupation of economic
decision makers.
16.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures already
noted, a number of important institutional reforms are being carried out
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. Among these
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).



- 5 -
are the marked improvement of information flows and budgetary control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidy programs formerlv handled outside the budget through the Central Bank;
and reduced earmarking of public revenues. The December 1979 devaluation of
the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements, and the gradual
freeing of prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Although public investments may be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years, priority attention will
continue to be given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture
and major import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5-5.5% per year in 1981-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in 1973-80. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a stable current account deficit through 1983, falling thereafter.
The debt service ratio would decline slowly. These projections are highly
sensitive, however, to petroleum prices, international interest rates, and the
rate of growth of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service
and a high share of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulner-
able to external events than it has been for many years, and this situation
may be expected to persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1983. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the 1981-85 period
despite an expected decline in international interest rates. Thus large
service account deficits will contribute to continuing current account deficits
on the order of US$10-12 billion through 1983 declining steadily thereafter.
As a proportion of GDP, the current account deficit is projected to fall
steadily from its peak of 5.6% in 1980. This projection assumes that imports
grow at a moderate pace through 1985, reflecting continued import substitution,
as well as a strengthening of the overall domestic savings effort. A trade
surplus would then appear beginning in 1982.
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$11-12 billion in 1981 and 1982, and to decline progressively thereafter
to about US$5 billion by 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be about US$19
billion this year and remain in the US$18-20 billion range over the five-year
period, with 75-85% obtained as financial credits from private lenders.
Consequently the net debt service ratio 1/ would decline from about 61% in
1980 to about 43% in 1985.
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially
1/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1979 the
public sector accounted for only 53% of total debt service payments.



- 6 -
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market.
Nevertheless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence
of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt have left
the economy increasingly vulnerable to further external shocks. The Govern-
ment recognizes the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in
its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import
substitution, employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates will continue to make projections
subject to a wide margin of error. The present scenario also depends heavily
on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation, expand manufactured exports, despite
the slower anticipated growth of the world economy, and on its continued
access to international capital. A major effort is underway to reduce depen-
dence on foreign petroleum, but significant results will not be apparent for
several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic,
highly diversified, and resilient. The task of economic management will not
be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to
changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should greatly strengthen
their management caDacity. Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979 and
1980, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By April 30, 1981 the Bank had made 103 loans to Brazil, amounting to
US$5,657 million (net of cancellations), of which 51 were not yet fully disbursed.
During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year, reaching
US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in FY78, US$295
million in FY79, and US$318 million in FY80. Disbursements for the first half
of FY81 amounted to US$185 million. They are expected to increase further
during the next few years. The total undisbursed amount as of April 30, 1981
was US$2,772.9 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
as of April 30, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY76-80 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY76, ten loans were made totalling
US$498 million; in FY77, seven loans totalling US$425 million; in FY78, nine
loans totalling US$705 million; in FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million;
and in FY80, seven loans totalling US$695 million were made. So far in FY81,
six loans totalling US$755 million have been approved -- US$125 million for
a second power transmission project of ELETROSUL, US$56 million for a second
rural development project in Ceara, US$54 million for an electric power system
coordination project, US$90 million for a third urban transport project,
US$180 million for a Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project, and US$250
million for an Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project. The documents
for a loan of US$29 million for a rural develoDment project in the State of
Piaui are being distributed at about the same time as this report. Work is
relatively advanced on a rural development project in the State of Maranhao,
an integrated regional development program in the northwest, and a multi-state
power distribution project.



- 7 -
24.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1979 amounted to USS51.0 billion, and is estimated
to have been US$56 billion at the end of 1980.  At the end of 1979, the Bank
held 3.6% of the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1979 was
2.0%. In 1980, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated to
have risen slightly to 3.8% while its share in total debt service fell to
about 1.9%.
25.       As of April 30, 1981 IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$581
million, of which US$374.6 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$206.4 million, US$152.7 million represent loans and US$53.7
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of April 30, 1981 is given
in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to
those groups, and to improve their living conditions. Consistent with this
objective, the proposed Second Agricultural Research Project would help ensure
that research policies and programs are oriented towards smallholder farming
systems and that research findings are promptly delivered. Previous loans for
nutrition research and development, vocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension and polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco
river basin and for integrated rural development in the States of Rio Grande
do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia, Sergipe, and Pernambuco were
designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas. Further projects to
assist the rural poor are in preparation including several additional inte-
grated rural development projects in the northeast and northwest. Loans for
water supply and sewerage projects, for urban transport in several major
cities, for sites and services and low-cost housing, for urban development
in medium-sized cities, and for pollution control in Greater Sao Paulo, are
assisting to improve the living conditions of the urban population, parti-
cularly of the urban poor. Several projects to reach low-income groups in
urban areas are in preparation, including an integrated urban development
project for Recife, an urban health project, and additional water supply and
sewerage projects.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control within
the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure that they are
used economically through rational selection of investment projects. This
institution-building objective is particularly important in the proposed
project which seeks to further strengthen Brazil's agricultural research
capability at both federal and state levels to respond to new agricultural
development priorities and Plans. The proposed project would in particular
help develop procedures and mechanisms to improve research planning and
programming as well as research linkage with extension and rural development
development institutions. Loans for urban development, electric power,



- 8 -
railways, industrial finance, highways, agricultural extension, rural devel-
opment, water supply and sewerage, and the recently approved loan for alcohol
and biomass energy development also have important institution-building
objectives.
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices in 1974, by supporting projects designed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute imports by
domestic production. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of
trade and balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy
crisis, this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since
it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. The proposed project would also help achieve this
obJective by promoting complementary research activities on bioenergy and by
helping develop conservation-oriented agricultural techniques. Bank support
of fertilizer and petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute
large-scale efficient domestic production for imports and thus aid its balance-
of-payments position. The alcohol and biomass energy development project
recently approved by the Board directly addresses the need to restrict growth
of petroleum imports. Much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport
sector -- railways, ports, and highways -- is designed to facilitate the
smooth and economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program
is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity
which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply
of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. A similar
objective is being achieved through the VALESUL aluminum project which will
use Brazil's abundant hydroelectric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain satisfactory growth and achieve its employment creation and regional
development objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is
regarded by the international financial community as an important sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages others to continue contributing to the
country's development. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation is helping Brazil obtain additional resources
in greater amounts and on more favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies
and private financial institutions than may otherwise have been provided.
Eleven co-financing operations, for more than US$425 million, have been
concluded since 1976 with private financial institutions and several others
are in preparation, including about US$110 million in private co-financing
for the CEEE power distribution project (Loan No. 1824-BR), US$50 million in
private co-financing for the Second Minas Gerais Rural Development Project
(Loan No. 1877-BR), about USS65 million in private co-financing for the
ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No. 1895-BR), and
US$250 million for the Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project
(Loan No. 1989-BR).



- 9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Sector Performance, Constraints, and Policy
30.       Agriculture continues to be an important sector in the Brazilian
economy, employing about 35% of the economically active population and con-
tributing about 11% of the total GDP and about half of total export earnings.
Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the
largest producer of sugar cane, and the third largest producer of soybeans.
Other major agricultural exports include meat and fish products, cotton,
corn, peanuts, cocoa, castor oil, and sisal. In most years Brazil is self-
sufficient in basic food production, except for wheat. From 1970-79, the
average annual agricultural growth rate was about 5%, and overall, agriculture
has been the country's primary earner of foreign exchange at the same time
that it has provided raw materials, foodstuffs, and savings and labor to urban
industry.
31.       While aggregate agricultural performance has been satisfactory,
there have been large variations through time in the relative performances
of the major agricultural product groups and among the several regions of
the country. Especially, the north, northeast, and center-west continue to
employ traditional agricultural practices and rudimentary technology. Further-
more, as in most of Brazil's history, outout gains for most products have
derived mainly from the expansion of land area rather than from increased
yields. While not surprising for a country enjoying Brazil's vast land
resources, this fact has taken an increasing importance as transport and
other costs have risen along the extensive frontier.
32.       Constraints on increased agricultural production, particularly
for small farmers, include: limited access to institutional credit, to
adequate extension services, and to modern agricultural inputs; inadequate
supporting services and infrastructure for marketing, storage and transport;
uncertain land tenure and highly uneven land distribution; and the absence of
a stable price oolicy to provide incentives for agricultural producers. This
lack of price stability, having a direct bearing on possible returns to
agriculture, is also a risk factor in the long-range planning necessary for
agricultural research.
33.       Agricultural development has been assigned a high priority in
Brazil's Third National Development Plan (1980-85), including measures aimed
at a more efficient exploitation of the country's agricultural potential.
Major policy objectives include: (a) the increase of basic staple and export
production, especially by small and medium producers; (b) the improvement of
production, storage, transport and marketing systems; (c) the expansion of
agricultural research and extension activities, and the use of modern inputs
and appropriate technology; (d) the decentralization of agricultural policy
execution, by increasing the participation of the private sector and state and
local governments; and (e) the increased production of energy substitutes.
Government measures aimed at stimulating agricultural production and raising
rural incomes, particularly among small producers, include: (a) the reorgan-
ization of federal extension services to intensify efforts to improve produc-
tivity and to provide better rural extension services to a broader segment of



- 10 -
the rural population; (b) the support of special programs such as POLONORDESTE
in the northeast and POLONOROESTE in the northwest that focus on poorer regions
and small-scale farmers and/or the incorporation of new areas into production;
and (c) the expansion of overall supply of agricultural credit, and since late
1979, a series of actions which included measures intended to increase access
to institutional credit. In addition, the Government has introduced a crop/
credit insurance scheme to help ensure farmers against losses resulting from
natural disaster. The Government has also given strong support to a large-
scale alcohol production program with a view to reducing petroleum consumption.
This program has induced increased cultivation of sugarcane. 1/
34.       An important aspect of Brazil's agricultural policy has been the heavy
use of agricultural credit at subsidized interest rates. With the continuing
high level of inflation, these rates are negative in real terms.    The
subsidies were originally introduced some years ago to induce an expansion in
agricultural production by offsetting the high cost of inputs and by giving
special assistance to disadvantaged groups. However, the drawbacks of the
system -- economic distortions and administrative complexity -- have become
increasingly apparent. The Government recently announced some increases in
nominal agricultural interest rates for all types of agricultural credits,
as well as reduced eligibility for subsidized funding for larger farmers and
specified end-uses, and has indicated that it intends to continue reducing
these subsidies over time.
Bank Involvement in Brazil's Agricultural Sector
35.       The range of Bank-assisted operations in the agricultural sector
in Brazil reflects a two-pronged strategy combining an area development
approach focussed on poor rural areas in the northeast and northwest with a
functional approach (as in the case with the proposed project) that aims
at bringing about needed policy changes and institution building. The Bank
has so far made 19 loans, totalling US$712.6 million for agricultural and
rural development in Brazil. These include two amounting to US$119.2 million
for agro-industries, two totalling US$60.5 million for livestock development,
one for US$18.2 million for grain storage, one for US$40.0 million for the
first agricultural research project, one for US$100.0 million to improve
agricultural extension services, and 12 totalling US$374.7 million for various
settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, 10 of which are located
in the Northeast. The documents for a loan of US$29 million for a rural
development project in the state of Piaui (also in the Northeast) are being
distributed at about the same time as this report, and a similar project in
the state of Maranhao is currently at an advanced state of preparation.
Additional agricultural and rural development projects are under consideration
which are designed to assist the Government in its priority efforts to further
settlement and economic development of suitable areas of the Amazon region,
with goals of raising agricultural production and absorbing marginalized migrant
populations from other regions of Brazil. These include three settlement
consolidation and new settlement schemes envisaged under the recently appraised
Northwest Region Development Program and the proposed Amazonas state agricul-
tural development project which is under preparation. Project performance audit
reports have been issued for the grain storage and the two livestock development
projects, but none has yet been produced for rural development projects.
1/ See President's Report on the Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development
Project (Report No. P-3039-BR, dated April 23, 1981).



- 11 -
Present Status of Agricultural Research, Extension and Education
36.       The structure of agricultural research in Brazil has now consoli-
dated after a transitional period, moving over the last decade from a loosely
coordinated group of some 230 largely independent research units operated and
funded by various federal and state agencies to a stronger, rationalized
network of research units operating under the authority of a federal entity,
the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA). EMBRAPA was
created in 1972, linked to the Ministry of Agriculture. It became fully
functional in 1974. It has national responsibility for the coordination and
promotion of agricultural research and for ensuring that the agricultural
research effort responds to national economic and social development objec-
tives and programs. Other functions of EMBRAPA are to provide technical
coordination of research projects in order to reduce the duplication of
research efforts, to increase the production orientation of research, to
analyze the financial and economic viability of appropriate technology,
and to improve the linkage with extension services and, hence, with the farmers.
EMBRAPA exercises this mandate through two main avenues: (a) direct execution
of research through its own stations at the national, regional and state
levels; and (b) coordination of the planning, execution and evaluation of
federal and state funded research programs carried out by state research
stations and universities. In the field of international technical and
scientific cooperation, EMBRAPA has developed various programs, including
activities with the Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Sciences (IICA),
the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), the International
Center for the Improvement of Maize and Wheat (CIMMYT, Mexico), the Inter-
national Centers for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT, Colombia, and IITA, Nigeria),
the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI, the Philippines), and the
International Potato Center (CIP, Peru). Bilateral cooperation includes
agreements with the Federal Republic of Germany, the United States, Japan,
and France. EMBRAPA also provides technical assistance in soil analysis
to Guinea Bissau and Cape Verde. The proposed project was designed to
complement available bilateral and international support and to strengthen
liaison between EMBRAPA and various international research centers with
similar research programs. Specialized technical inputs as well as general
program advice to be provided to EMBRAPA by these international centers
would be financed under the proposed project. Since 1977, EMBRAPA programs
have received funding under the First Agricultural Research Project, partially
financed by Bank Loan 1249-BR, and expected to be completed by the end of
1982 (see paras. 39 and 40). Another project, mainly in the Center South,
is partly financed by the Inter-American Development Bank.
37.       The national technical assistance and rural extension system com-
prises the Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Corporation
(EMBRATER) and 25 state and territory Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Corporations (EMATERs/ASTERs). EMBRATER, a government-owned corporation
linked to the Ministry of Agriculture, was established in 1975. Its primary
responsibilities are to: (a) plan, coordinate and supervise technical assis-
tance and rural extension activities; (b) encourage the EMATERs/ASTERs to
adopt sound extension methods and promote the transfer of new technology to
the farmer; and (c) help direct extension policies and programs to the needs



- 12 -
of low-income producers, especially within the framework of rural development
programs. Implementation of extension programs and activities is the direct
responsibility of the EMATERs/ASTERs. As of June 1980, the national agricul-
tural extension system's activities extended to 3,124 municipalities or about
92% of all municipalities in Brazil. The Government, through a Bank-assisted
Agricultural Extension Project (Loan 1568-BR), has endeavored to strengthen
technical and financial support for the state level companies, especially in
the priority areas of the North, Northeast and Center-West, through new
training programs and intensified guidance in the elaboration of extension
activities; project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.  However,
links between agricultural research and extension to elaborate research
programs and to deliver research results remain insufficient. In addition to
steps being taken under the Agricultural Extension project to correct these
shortcomings, the proposed Second Agricultural Research Project would help
reinforce cooperation between Brazil's agricultural research and extension
systems.
38.       Agricultural Education.  There are some 45 institutions of higher
education in Brazil which offer agricultural degrees. These cover 57 pro-
grams in various agricultural sciences. Most of the agricultural study
programs were started in the last 15 to 20 years. While training capability
to meet national requirements is probably adequate at the undergraduate
level, there is still a strong reliance on training abroad to meet the
country's advanced degree requirements, particularly in such areas as agri-
cultural research.
Status of the First Agricultural Research Project (Loan 1249-BR)
39.       The project, designed to strengthen the research capability of the
then newly created EMBRAPA, has a total cost of US$189.0 million and has been
supported by a Bank loan of US$40.0 million. It provides for a program of
agricultural research to accelerate the production of nine basic food/fiber
commodities in the Northeast, North and Center-West regions of Brazil. Its
main components include the establishment or upgrading, and staffing, of
25 agricultural research centers, an extensive technical assistance program
for staff training, and consultant services. As of January 1981, about
60% of the project was completed. Achievements to date include substantial
completion of research facilities at 21 of the 25 regional crop and state-level
research stations being financed under the project. Laboratory and library
facilities at these stations have also been provided. Incremental research
staff at all stations has been provided ahead of original schedules. The
staff training program has had approximately 1,400 staff participants to
date, with short-term courses representing 70% of that number. Research
programs on farming systems and selected commodities included in the project
have begun to produce promising results, particularly in the selection of
higher yielding varieties of annual crops and the development of new production
systems for crops such as rice, beans, maize and cassava. Promising results
have also been achieved in the reduction of production costs through selection
of crop varieties for greater disease resistance and through the use of
biological pest control methods.
40.        The major implementation problems have been:  (a) initial delays
in contracting consultants and operating fellowship training and study
programs; (b) significant changes in administrative and technical staff and



- 13 -
temporary restrictions on the hiring of new staff during 1978-79; and (c) partly
because of the above conditions, slow development of the administrative capa-
bility within EMBRAPA required to implement the project and to plan and evaluate
its research programs adequately. As a result of these early problems, further
exacerbated by general public sector restrictions imposed in 1980 on the hiring
of staff, implementation of training programs abroad, and importation of
equipment, project completion is now expected by about December 1982, roughly
one year behind the original schedule. Despite these problems, however, there
has been considerable progress in EMBRAPA's technical capacity during the past
three years. The proposed second project will build upon these achievements
and the momentum gained while helping correct shortcomings. Implementation
of the second project can be initiated without waiting for the completion of
the first project since it will support research programs of which two or three
only have been initiated under the first project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed proiect was prepared by EMBRAPA, assisted by con-
sultants in the final stage of project preparation. The resulting proposal,
which was submitted to the Bank in July 1980, served as the basis for project
appraisal which took place during August/September 1980 and was completed in
March 1981. Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington from
May 6 to May 12, 1981 with a Brazilian delegation led by Mr. Agostinho Plores
of the Ministry of Finance. A staff appraisal report entitled "Brazil -
Second Agricultural Research Project" (No. 3357a-BR dated May 25, 1981) is
being circulated separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Strategy
42.       The proposed project would increase the capacity of Brazil's national
agricultural research agency (EMBRAPA) to expand several of the research
programs being carried out under the first project as well as support several
major new programs. The project has been formulated with the objectives of:
(a) strengthening existing mechanisms within EMBRAPA to ensure that research
policies and programs be designed towards producers' needs; (b) helping
EMBRAPA respond to government planning initiatives and policy decisions
affecting the agricultural sector, particularly as these relate to programs
to increase production of key food and export crops and to develop non-
traditional energy sources; and (c) supporting efforts to ensure that new
production technologies developed at the research stations reach the producers
promptly, particularly the small-scale farmers, for whom inputs from adaptive
research and close liaison between research and extension are crucial. The
project therefore complements the objectives of the ongoing Agricultural
Extension Project (Loan 1568-BR), as well as the various rural development
projects which the Bank is helping finance in Brazil. Though the project
would not be confined to a specific project area, most of the research programs
it includes have particular relevance to the problems of the less developed
Northeast, North and Center-West regions of Brazil. (See IBRD Maps Nos. 15234R
and 11884R1 attached at the end of this report.)



- 14 -
43.       The strategy by which the project objectives would be achieved
includes: (a) expanded support for the regional farming systems research
programs and the research programs on rice, beans and rubber, which were
assisted in the first project; (b) support for research on six commodities
(vegetables, fruits, coconuts, oil palm, babassu and wood products) and for
a program of improved seed production not included under the first project
but already initiated by EMBRAPA; (c) support for high priority new national
programs for animal health, bioenergy, food technology, and agricultural
engineering; and (d) support for new monitoring and evaluation systems,
and for EMBRAPA's information and documentation system.
Project Summary
44.       Research Programs on Farming Systems.  Programs have been designed
to expand farming systems research at EMBRAPA-s regional research centers
in the three selected agro-ecological areas. The Research Center for Agri-
culture in the Cerrados (i.e., savannah areas) located at Planaltina near
Brasilia would focus especially on the problems of managing acidic erosion-
prone soils of low fertility, typical of the region, improving the use of
available water resources, and on the introduction of new crops and livestock
activities to raise incomes and make better use of the available labor supply.
The Cerrados region is of major agricultural significance because of its
proximity to regions of dense population and its large area of under-utilized
cultivable land (estimated at 50 million ha). The Research Center for Agricul-
ture in the Semi-Arid Tropics, located at Petrolina, Pernambuco would focus
mainly on the adaptation of crop varieties and production systems to the
limited rainfall available and on improvements of irrigation practices,
including water collection schemes and distribution. It is expected that
research results will be of particular significance to the area's high concen-
trations of rural poor and would complement government- and Bank-financed
rural development operations for the Northeast. The Research Center for
Agriculture in the Humid Tropics, located in Belem, would help provide the
knowledge required for the rational sustainable agricultural development of
Brazil's vast but ecologically fragile tropical land areas. Particular
emphasis would be placed on the utilization of flood plains which have clear
agricultural potential without significant ecological risk, and on the improve-
ment of existing cropping and livestock production systems. All these region-
ally based research programs would emphasize socio-economic aspects and give
particular attention to the systematic identification and evaluation of
improvement potentials of existing farming systems. They would be closely
linked to the federal, regional and state level organizations which manage
agricultural and area development programs and would incorporate technology
generated by the commodity research centers and, in turn, would help define
priorities for these centers.
45.       National Commodity Research and Improved Seed Production Programs.
Building on results obtained during the past four years, the proposed programs
would continue efforts to develop improved and easily transferrable production
system packages for rice, beans, vegetables, tropical fruits, coconuts,
African oil palm, babassu palm (native to Brazil), rubber and forest products.
These selected commodities are significant for various reasons, including
their widespread cultivation for food, the availability of good natural



- 15 -
conditions for their production in Brazil, their promising domestic and
export market prospects, their possibilities for substituting for imports,
their value as a potential source of energy, and their potential for promoting
sustainable use of available resources. Specific research topics would in-
clude: varietal improvement, disease and pest control, cultivation techniques,
harvesting and marketing, and development of low-risk production systems,
zoning of areas according to production potential, and a number of crop-
specific topics which reflect current priority production problems. In
addition, the proposed project would strengthen EMBRAPA's capacity to produce,
process, store and distribute foundation seeds. This component would specifi-
cally improve seed supplies for Brazil's seven major cereal, root and fiber
crops in the least developed regions of the country.
46.       New Research Support Programs.  Brazil is increasingly calling
upon its agriculture to make a major contribution to the country's efforts
to alleviate its balance-of-payments constraint and inflation problem through
the expansion of domestic food production, the promotion of exports, and the
substitution of imports inter alia through the development of economically
viable biomass-based fuels. New research support programs have been included
in the proposed project to these ends. These include: (a) agricultural
engineering research to identify and exploit economically viable and energy
efficient opportunities for mechanization of agricultural practices; (b) food
technology research, especially processing and storage needs to improve the
quality and availability of, and alternatives for, basic foods in the North,
Northeast and Center-West; (c) bioenergy research to complement research
and activities sponsored by the Government's PROALCOOL program and to expand
research on vegetable-based oils as substitutes for diesel fuel, to identify
and improve the productivity of existing and potential sources of biomass
energy, and to promote energy conservation through agricultural techniques,
including alternative methods for providing soil nitrogen, and biological
control of insect pests and diseases; and (d) animal health research through
the strengthening of EMBRAPA's capacity to identify and to conduct research
on the control or prevention for some of the less known but economically
significant animal diseases.
47.       Information and Documentation.  The Information and Documentation
Department of EMBRAPA has two major roles: the assimilation of information on
technology developments (from within Brazil and from abroad) and the mainte-
nance of an adequate flow of technical information to the various interested
groups in Brazil. Under the First Agricultural Research Project (Loan 1249-BR),
the essential network, including a national data bank coupled to international
information banks, was set up. The proposed project would reinforce the
information network and strengthen its operational capacity through the
training of personnel and the acquisition of new library and documentation
techniques, in order to meet the increased demand for information services.
Project Components
48.       The project would provide for training of scientific manpower,
technical assistance and upgrading of physical facilities and systems
operation and would include: (a) research development, including (i) civil



- 16 -
works, comprising mainly ancillary buildings such as greenhouses, storage
building, laboratories, office buildings, staff housing in more remote areas,
and research-farm development; (ii) equipment and furniture comprising mainly
scientific instruments, laboratory equipment, vehicles, and farm equipment;
and (iii) library and documentation services for various research facilities
both within and outside the EMBRAPA system, including some microfilm equipment;
(b) technical assistance and training, comprising about 156 manyears of
consultancy services, postgraduate degree training for 205 staff, short-term
fellowships for a further 340 staff and contract research; and (c) incremental
operating costs comprising the salaries and associated costs of incremental
scientists and support staff (in the order of 200 and 1,100 respectively,
although these figures will be adjusted as the project is being implemented),
in addition to the incremental operating costs for vehicles, equipment and
facilities included in the project; the cost of these various components is
shown in the Loan and Project Summary (page ii). The project would be imple-
mented over a six-year period, beginning in 1981.
Project Implementation
49.       Organization and Management.  The project would be an integral
part of EMBRAPA's overall research and research support program. The responsi-
bilities for project execution would be similar to the arrangements for the
first project. EMBRAPA is managed by a Board of Directors consisting of the
President and three Executive Directors who report to the President. The
three Executive Directors have prime responsibility for the general management
of the research programs included in the project. They oversee the collabora-
tion among the national commodity centers, the regional centers and the
state-level research stations; they are responsible for ensuring that these
centers and stations receive the needed support from the various headquarters
departments of EMBRAPA. EMBRAPA's Advisory Office for International Coopera-
tion (ACI) would be responsible for day-to-day coordination of matters directly
relating to the implementation of the proposed project and would be the main
contact with the Bank on administrative matters pertaining to the project.
The Science and Technology Department would coordinate the technical aspects
of project implementation. No later than September 30, 1981, a Project
Coordinator whose qualifications and experience qualifications would be
submitted to the Bank for review and comment would be appointed within ACI
(Section 3.05(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Coordinating the monitoring of
project implementation would be the responsibility of the Project Coordinator
in ACI. Evaluation of the progress of the individual research programs would
be the responsibility of the Department of Analysis and Evaluation. Execution
arrangements, including measures to improve research planning and administra-
tion, are described in paras. 50 and 51. EMBRAPA has established a special
Civil Works Coordinating Unit, including several architects and engineers and
support staff who represent EMBRAPA in dealing with the consultant architects
retained for architectural designs, preparation of bidding documents and
construction supervision. EMBRAPA would ensure that this unit would be
maintained and adequately staffed (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
As EMBRAPA's program will be expanding considerably with the execution of
this project and its organization may need further adaptation or adjustment,
no later than June 30, 1984, EMBRAPA would provide the Bank with a detailed



- 17 -
review of the adequacy of these project execution arrangements, including
recommendations for measures to correct specific problems identified; and,
after consultation with the Bank, would promptly implement the agreed measures
(Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       Research Planning, Programming, and Coordination.  Organizational
and administrative arrangements for coordinating and programming research
activities have been largely tested under the first project. The basic
content and priority lines of inquiry defined by the project's research
stations, in consultation with their clients, would be reviewed and updated
annually through an iterative planning process involving a systematic review
of the aggregate proposals for research related to each of the different
commodity, farming system, and research support programs. Each program review
would be organized and led by a national program coordinator who would usually
be the technical chief at the key research station for the particular program.
Final review of the revised consolidated annual research program proposals is
made in a workshop with the participation of the various research stations and
outside agencies including "research clients". Arrangements for the coordina-
tion of research efforts between collaborating facilities would be strengthened
under the project by various means, including clarification of the specific
responsibilities of each participating entity, improved formal procedures
for research planning and review which would systematically involve both
researchers and research users, and new monitoring and evaluation systems.
In addition to the annual planning and review workshops indicated above,
research planning would be guided by advisory councils which already operate
at some stations and which would be extended under the project. These councils
include experts from industry, extension services, and universities in addition
to producer representatives.
51.       Research Development and Execution.  Maximum delegation of authority
and responsibility will be given to the national program coordinators and to the
participating field stations. The national program coordinators would be the
principal agents in facilitating cooperation among commodity programs, regional
research programs, state-level research units, EMBRAPA headquarters technical
staff and other collaborating institutions. The Department of Technology and
Science at EMBRAPA headquarters would also delegate one liaison officer for
each national research program. The functions of this liaison officer would
be to ensure adequate and timely coordination between the designated national
research program coordinators and EMBRAPA headquarters technical staff. The
chief of each research station center would have overall administrative
responsibility for the operation of the station while the associate or techni-
cal chief for research would serve as program coordinator for the appropriate
research Drogram. Although the research work would be mainly executed by
EMBRAPA and its state affiliates, various aspects of different research
programs would be subcontracted to other agencies and to universities.
EMBRAPA would prepare annual implementation plans for the project. Included
in the plans would be the proposed detailed research programs, the proposed
staffing and consultancies, annual budget and the list of purchases and/or
other major expenditures to be made. EMBRAPA would submit such annual
plans to the Bank for review no later than November 30 of each year previous
to the corresponding calendar year of operations, and would furnish to the
Bank the budget approved by the Government no later than February 28 of each
year (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Diffusion of Research Results
52.       A key objective of the proposed project is to ensure that research
findings promptly reach the producers, particularly the small farmers. Several
measures contributing to this objective implemented under the first project,
which will be strengthened under the proposed project, are described below.
At the national level, a Commission of Agricultural Research, Technical
Assistance, and Rural Extension (COMPATER) was formed in 1976 to provide a
high level forum for overall coordination of EMBRAPA's and EMBRATER's activi-
ties; coordination of the detailed activities of the two institutions is
ensured through direct contacts between EMBRAPA and EMBRATER management staff.
EMBRAPA and EMBRATER collaborate in the preparation of printed information and
other training materials for the dissemination of new production technology
through the local extension and research units. Under the Project, liaison
between extension and research personnel at local units would be strengthened
and monitored to help ensure that the researchers are more fully aware of the
current crop production problems encountered at the farm level. In addition,
the location of the state level research units for adaptive research and field
demonstration would serve to facilitate greater access by farmers to research
results.
Monitoring and Evaluation
53.       The proposed project would support EMBRAPA's efforts to improve its
monitoring and evaluation systems. EMBRAPA is developing key project indica-
tors and detailed plans to help standardize and strengthen arrangements for
monitoring and evaluating its activities. EMBRAPA would ensure that satisfac-
tory final plans for those activities, including detailed implementation
arrangements, would be provided to the Bank no later than September 30, 1981
(Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Each research center would
prepare semi-annual monitoring reports based on a set of indicators allowing
performance to be easily assessed, and EMBRAPA would provide these semi-annual
reports, aggregated as required, to the Bank. While the monitoring system
would initially be limited to the proposed project only, EMBRAPA would inves-
tigate the feasibility of extending the system to cover all EMBRAPA's activ-
ities following the mid-term project review (see below). The following
special analyses would be carried out as part of the evaluation of project
activities: (a) impact of the commodity and farming systems research on
production in the major agricultural regions; (b) evaluation of individual
lines of research; (c) cost/benefit analyses of research programs; and
(d) socio-economic effects of the application of new technologies. The
recommendations arising out of these studies would be used to refine EMBRAPA's
research programs as required. In addition to these special evaluation
studies, a special mid-term review of the project would be carried out during
the third year of project execution by a team of internationally recognized
experts selected by EMBRAPA and employed under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. EMBRAPA would submit to the Bank for review the reports on
special evaluation studies as well as the results of the mid-term project
review. Findings and recommendations resulting from the latter review would
be implemented as deemed advisable after consultation with the Bank (Section
3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Staffing, Training, Technical Assistance
54.       The project envisages an increase in professional staff by about
120 senior scientists (PhD and MSc) and 100 junior scientists (BSc or equiva-
lent). Administrative and research support staff would be increased by about
1,100 persons. This staff increase would be phased over five years and would
be planned during the preparation of the annual implementation plan (para. 51);
the quality of the recruited staff, together with the speed with which EMBRAPA
can upgrade its existing staff, would be critical to the success of the proposed
project. Based on the experience of the first project, EMBRAPA is in the
process of selecting promising candidates for on-the-job training and post-
graduate studies, taking into account both EMBRAPA's research priorities and
the educational and scientific achievement of the candidates. A total of 205
such advanced training fellowships would be made available under the project,
87 for PhD and 118 for MSc. Those chosen for fellowship support would be
required to agree to work for EMBRAPA at a research station upon completion of
their training, for a period at least as long as the fellowship period. About
half of the 205 fellowships for PhD programs would be applied at Brazilian
universities, with the remainder at selected foreign universities. EMBRAPA
would contract, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, one or
several specialized agencies to help administer this fellowship program to
be carried out abroad (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       EMBRAPA's permanent staff would be substantially strengthened
through a technical assistance program encompassing 156 man-years of consultancy
services for various research programs or for specialized assistance to
EMBRAPA management. Such consultancy assistance would be particularly impor-
tant to EMBRAPA as research programs are initiated or expanded and as EMBRAPA
staff is partially depleted, in the short term, by the fellowhip and training
programs. To assist in the identification and contracting of appropriate
consultants (particularly the foreign consultants), EMBRAPA would contract, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, an agency or agencies special-
ized in such services (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
56.       Total project cost is estimated at US$150.1 million, of which 40%
or about US$60 million would be the foreign exchange component, and US$2.7
million equivalent would represent taxes and duties. A summary of project
cost appears in the loan and project summary at page (ii) above. This
cost includes physical contingencies of 15% for civil works and 10% for all
other components except technical assistance and incremental operating costs
for which no physical contingencies were considered necessary. Price con-
tingencies estimated at about 25% of base cost (June 1981 prices) have been
calculated in US dollar terms as follows: 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% from
1983 through 1985, and 6% per year thereafter. Development costs are estimated
to be about 44% of base cost, technical assistance and fellowships 29%, and
incremental operating costs 27%. Annual costs per consultant were estimated
to be US$85,000 of which 40% comprised salary, 30% insurance, family, educa-
tional allowance and other benefits, and 30% duty station allowances including
rent and travel expenses. The proposed Bank loan of US$60 million would
cover the project's estimated foreign exchange component, or 41% of the total
proiect cost excluding taxes and duties. The remaining US$90.1 million equiva-
lent, or 60% of project cost, would be provided by the federal Government,



- 20 -
which would also ensure that import and other permits and licenses required
for the execution of the project were promptly issued to EMBRAPA (Sections
2.02 and 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Procurement
57.       Contracts for civil works (estimated to cost about US$20.5 million
excluding contingencies) would be awarded through local competitive bidding
due to the dispersed nature of the project civil works and the relatively
small size of the individual construction contracts. Work by force account
would be permitted in some remote areas. Contracts for office, farm equipment
and vehicles (about US$8.4 million) would be purchased according to normal
EMBRAPA procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. Specialized library
supplies, documentation, equipment and materials (about US$8.7 million), and
laboratory equipment (about US$8.6 million) for contracts estimated to cost
in excess of US$200,000 would be purchased through international competitive
bidding. Purchases in these two categories estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$200,000 after grouping where feasible, and up to an aggregate
amount of US$2.0 million in each category, would be procured in accordance
with local comDetitive bidding procedures.
Disbursements
58.       The proposed Bank loan of US$60.0 million would be disbursed as fol-
lows: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for consulting services, research
services, fellowships, office, farm and laboratory equipment, vehicles, and
library and documentation facilities, equipment and materials; such disburse-
ments are expected to represent about 67% of loan proceeds; (b) 80% of local
expenditures for consulting services; (c) 40% of local expenditures for
office, farm and laboratory equipment, vehicles and library and documentation
facilities, equipment and materials; and (d) 35% of local expenditures for
research services, fellowships and civil works. All disbursement requests
would be fully documented with the exception of claims for expenditures in
respect of civil works by force account and purchases of equipment and materials
under contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent, which would be disbursed
against statements of expenditures, the documentation for which would be
retained by EMBRAPA for review during Bank supervision missions. Retroactive
financing of about US$500,000 is recommended to cover eligible expenditures
for services associated with the baseline survey for the evaluation component
and for architectural and engineering services contracted prior to the signing
of the proposed Loan Agreement but after January 1, 1981. In order to reduce
the interval during which EMBRAPA would finance the Bank's share of project
costs with its own resources, EMBRAPA may request the Bank to make advance
payments in dollars from the loan account into a Special Account to be opened
in the Banco Central do Brasil. EMBRAPA would be entitled to make withdrawals
from the Special Account upon submission to the Banco Central of withdrawal
applications. Conversion from dollars into cruzeiros would be made at the
exchange rate that prevailed on the date the expenditures for the project
were made. Banco Central would forward these withdrawal applications to
the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account (Sections 2.02(b)-
(g) of the draft Loan Agreement). The loan is expected to be disbursed by
June 30, 1987.



- 21 -
Accounts and Audits
59.       EMBRAPA's accounts are audited by the auditors of finance (IGF) in
the Ministry of Finance. These accounts will be audited in the future by the
Central Secretariat of Internal Control (SECIN) of the Secretariat of Planning.
EMBRAPA would maintain separate accounts of expenditures made under the
project, and provide the Bank, within four months after the end of each fiscal
year, copies of its fully audited statements. The audit report provided to
the Bank would include an opinion as to the reliability of statement of
expenditures to support claims for disbursements and the adequacy of internal
controls (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, within four
months after the end of each fiscal year, the Bank would be provided with
copies of an audit of the Special Account by an independent auditing unit of
the National Monetary Council.
Benefits and Justification
60.       Past increases in agricultural production have been derived mainly
from the expansion of land area. Much of the sector continues to employ
traditional agricultural practices and rudimentary technology, and expansion
of the development frontier will eventually be constrained by ecological
conditions and by increasing transport and other costs. Sustained improvement
of Brazil's agricultural production and incomes, especially among the small-
scale producers, will require continuous efforts to further agricultural
productivity and efficiency and to promote crop diversification. The proposed
agricultural research project directly contributes to these important goals.
61.       The commodities and farming systems research programs have been
chosen in response to Government policies and priorities. Beans, rice, and
selected vegetables are principal food crops. Natural rubber is the subject
of several special programs aimed at enabling Brazil eventually to achieve
self-sufficiency in the production of natural rubber. The bioenergy, tree
crop (oil palm, coconut and babassu) and forestry programs have received
increased emphasis because of their potential to provide energy substitutes
for imported petroleum. The proposed research program, together with parallel
Government programs in extension, rural development and land settlement, could
be expected to have a significant impact on a large number of farms of all
sizes, particularly, however, upon the income levels for small-scale farmers
in the project priority areas of the Northeast, North and Center-West. In the
Northeast, where most of the potential beneficiaries are in the lowest income
groups, for example, there are 1,100,000 small-scale farm units of less than
10 ha where per capita incomes are virtually all below Brazil's relative rural
poverty level (about US$332 per capita).
62.       Although it is not yet possible to quantify accurately the benefits
of a research project of this type, ex ante, there is evidence from other
countries, based on the ex post calculation of rates of return on individual
crop research programs through increases in crop yields, that well-designed
agricultural research efforts have had economic rates of return as high as 90%
and commonly over 30%. The proposed project would have a major impact in
strengthening the organization and production orientation of Brazil's agri-
cultural research system. It would also assist EMBRAPA to consolidate the
progress already made under the first project and help assure continuity in
the further improvement of research planning and execution and of effective
collaboration between extension and research services.



- 22 -
Environmental Impact
63.       Based on the premise that the technology developed at EMBRAPA
research stations would be successfully disseminated to the planners and
farmers in the three regions, the probable environmental impact of the proposed
project would be positive. Work initiated under the first research project on
designing farming systems compatible with the various ecosystems would be
reinforced. Development of improved farming techniques, covering soil conser-
vation and rational water and fertilizer use would also contribute to preserve
the ecological balance which is essential to increased agriculture production
and the agroeconomic stability of the cropping systems over the long-term.
Risks
64.       Risks associated with the project lie with:  (a) the adequacy of
the linkages between research and extension services; (b) the difficulty in
obtaining, in some disciplines, qualified staff during the early stages;
(c) the efficiency of the mechanisms for research programming, administration
and coordination; and (d) possible shifts in Government policies directly
influencing agriculture which could create indecision and undue modification
of research programs.
65.       Measures for improving research programming, coordination, monitor-
ing and evaluation, and close association among the various agricultural and
rural development programs of the Government would help both strengthen
linkages between research and extension and promote more efficient administra-
tion of the research programs. Project provisions for training, use of
consultants as well as contract research should lead to long term increases
in EMBRAPA's capacity to conduct sound research while helping to mitigate
short-term staffing constraints. Strong Government commitment to increase
food production and export of agricultural products, and to greater reliance
on substitute fuels from biomass should provide the stable framework within
which basic agricultural policy decisions will continue to be made. Also,
EMBRAPA would be better equipped, through the improved planning, monitoring
and evaluation systems being promoted under the proposed project, to adjust
its research programs in response to Government planning initiatives and policy
decisions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Empresa Brasileira
de Pesquisa Agropecuaria and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Bank
and the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
67.       The main features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. There is
no special condition of effectiveness or of disbursement.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
69.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 28, 1981



ANNEX I
-24-                                      page 1
BRAZIL - SOClAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        RZPERCNCE GROUPS (WEIGPTED AVEACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM-.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           8512.0
AGRICULTURAL    2067.2                                MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDl.E IPCOMF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIBrEAN           EttPOPE
GNP PU CAPITA (USS)                  320.0        570.0    1690.0                  1562.9                    2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KIWLOGAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     332.0       674.0      794.0                  1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     71.5        95.2      119.5
QIZAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF tDTAL) 46. 1       53.9      63.3                     63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     201.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       345.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        8.0        11.0      14.0                     28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. IQ. AGRICULTURAL LAND     44.0        49.0      58.0                     81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.6        42.6      41.7                     41.6                     30.6
15-64 YRS.                         53.8        54.3      54.9                     54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         3.1       3.4                      3.9                      8. 2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         2.9       2.8                      2.7                      1. 6
URBAN                              5. 5        4.8       4.5                      6. 1                     3. 3
CRUDE BIRTE RATE (PER THOUSAND)    40.0         38.0      36.0                     34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH NATE (PER T8DUSAND)     11.0         9.0       9.0                      8.9                      8. 9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.6         2.6       2. 4                     2.5                      1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       111.0     203. 6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMN)    ..          1.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       102.0    .12.0                     106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMETS)                   101.0       104.0     107.2                    107. 4                   125.3
PFOtEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          61.0        62.0      62.7                     65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH AN1DLAL AND PULSE      34.0        34.0      35. 1                    33. 7                    39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     13.0        10.0       9.0               -4 8.                            .3
REALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.0        61.0      62.0                     63.1                     67.0
INFANT MORTALIrT RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..          ..        ..                     66. 5                    55. 9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPUL.ATION1)
TOTAL                               ..        56.3      77.1                     65.9
URRAN                               ..        77. 7     68.8                    80.4
RURAL                               ..        29.0      56.8                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCIEITA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        59.9      66 8                     62.3
UIRBAN                              ..        86.1      63.7                     79. 4
RURAL                               ..        26.5      31.7                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3600.0      1910.0    1700.0                   1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER N1RSING PERSON         ..      3220.0        ..                   1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BRD
TOTAL                            309.0       262.0     253.0                   460.3                     289.7
URRAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        18.0        ..                                              17. 0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.1         4.8       4.9
URBAN                                          4.6       4.7
RURAL                               ..         5.2       5. 3
AVERAGE HUlBER OF PERSONS PER ROM
TOTAL                                          1.1
URBAN                                          1. 0
RURAL                               ..         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             38.7        47.6      63.0
URBAN                               ..        75.6      84. 9
RLRAL                               ..         8.4      19. 2



-25-                                       ANNEX I
page 2
_ RAZIL - SOCIAI INI)ICATORS DATA SllEXT
SRAZIL                         trFERNCE CROtIPS (WEtOlTED A"FRATES
- tnST RECEhT ESTItATE.  1
MOST tJEYT               MIDDLE INCOKE           MIDDLE It CCME
1960  lb    1970 l ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMEItCA * CARIBIBEAJN           von
EDt'CA'IOS
AU.SIED L%ReLL!'.E!T RATIOS
PRIDAPY:     TOTAL                 95.0        125.0       90.0/e                   99.7                      105.9
HAl.E                 97. 0       125.0      89.0O/                   101.0                     109.3
FDtJALE               93.0        125.0      go.0/e                   99.4                      103.0
SECONDART:   TOTAL                 11.0         26.0       24. Oc                   34.4                       64.n
1A.LE                 11.0         26.0      22.0/c                    33.5                      71.1
FEtALE                10.0        26.0       26. O/c                  34. 7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (l OF SECONDARY)  19.0          17.0       47.0c                    38.2                       28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
FRIYARY                            33. 0        28.0      22.0                      30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                          13.0         13.0       11.0                     14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         66.2       75.7                     76.3
CONSSUtPTIO'J
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPUI.ATION                         7. 0        25.0      52.4                      43.0                      84.6
RADIo RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66. 0       124.0     155. 0                    245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.0         64.0      93.0                     8U.2                      118.5
NEYSPAPER ("DAILY CENTRAL
INTERESr') CIRCLLATION PER
THOLSAND POPULATION                  54.0         37.0       39.0                     63.3                      93.0
CINEKA A!NSIAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  S.0          1. 9       2. 6                                                 7
L.ABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22872.9       30057.3   37704.7
FEtALE (PERCrT)                    17.5         20.4      22.0                      22.2                      30.4
ACRICULTURE (PERCEIT)              51.9         45.6       l.O                     37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PLLCENT)                 14.8         18.3      22.0                      23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCEIT)
TOtAAL                               32.0         31.6       31.5                     31.5                      40.9
MALE                                 52. 7        50.3       49. 3                    48.9                      55.9
FDtALE                               11.2         12.8       13.6                     14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENtDENCY RATIO              1. 4         1. 4       1. 4                     1.4                        1. n
INCOtIE DISTRIBLTION
PERCENtT Or PRIVATE IIXCtIE
R RECEIVED BY
IlGHEST 5 FPRCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
ttlCREST 20 PERCESt OF HOUSEHOLDS  60. 0        63. 5     62.0
LCWEST 20 PERCENT OF ItOLISEHOLDS    3. 8        3. 2       2.8
LtUEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8           9.0        9.4 
POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
ESTIMATWD ABSOLLTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RtURAL                               ..           ..     150.0                     190.6
ESTITATED RELATIVE POVERTY INSCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     465.0                     474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     332.0                     332.5                     38e.8
ESTIMATED POPULATIONI BELOW ABSOLUTE
PovERTY ISCair LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBA                                 ..           ..        .
IWR.Al                               ..           ..        .                         ..
l.. t available
. OEt ppllCable.
NOTES
Is   The  rolup averages for each indicstor sre population-wighted arIthOetic aeons.  Coverage of euntries
among the Indicators depends on Aillabl1ty of data and IS noL unifotr.
/b   Unless ethervise roteCe  data for 1960 tefer to any year between  959 and 1961; for 1970, boerwn 1969
and 1971; *rd for Ilost Recent t!tlnete, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Beginning 1973 prlnary and secondary educations Cover age groups 7-1' and 15-17 Inteoad of 7-10 *ni 11-17
In earlier years; tHerefore most recent eatitlates are net comperable vith earlier data.
bsit recent eStLsate of GNP per caplta Is tat 1979. all other 4dat ate *a Of April. 1980.
Octob.r* 1980



-26-
ANNEX I
DEFINITIOINS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notee:  Although the dot.tr. draw  from  sucsgeneraly judged r   mos euthoritanive an  reliable, it should alec ha noted then they my see be inter-
r tIo  llyconpar.his because of the lack of snandardlead deietio    a-d concepts used by differevo  ouore   in colcigthe data.  The data are,  an
the1b..s.. usful to d-sribo orders of  agnitude, indictet trends, end charenerier o-rt.in sJor differences be t.en..                   oris
The reerns      .rop  ore .1) the s        ountry gr.,ouef the  ujo  osunt.  an d (2) a coutry group sith soehat high Cr average i-om   thee the tantry peep
of te sujsotcounry  (noep  for "Capital Surplus Oil Enport-o" group where 'Middle Incm   North Af rice ucd Middle teen' IS chosnb.                  ue  ferwe
-uocutrc.         af.ile)    Ic%the  efroe group data the avrgStar  popultion- wEihe  ertibtct meant for each,indica,tor and shen only ebs  en
leas  hel ofcbscoutris  n        ..gs   he  data fehe  indicator.  Sinc.h.           oerg.fcunre   m ththIdi dir   depedso  the avalability of
date  o  is  -c uif.r-, cationmot  e  oeb ie   inrlel                   vrae  of one indicator to another.  These averge.St ersonly usful in cepalg  h  *alu
of oned PnRuc    tevs   mn  thet coo tryenrfrncgous
LAND AREA (choucead  qgk..)                                                                    roua icocr Physician - FPopulato    irda   by  "ar ot Practicing phy-
Totu  - Ttal  cofee ars copriisin  land evec and inland  ais                            iciea   qualified fro   a medcasholiat usiern   lee.1
Aeri-liru-l - cE.iat  o griculncral aree usd temporarily or p -reetly                        Poculetion  .re  Sutein  Perace- Popu1etico divided byi  ..mbe  of panea
for c-pe, pesnuree,  arhat and kitchen gardensI  tor Iicl  tally; 1977 dana.                main, en  foals gtaduate       rs,  p=ecinl eIrsee, ae  eaiLtat Mane.
Poeltion ref HoseitSl Sad - total, ura. -d rurl -ostim(total.
IMPEPItCAPITA (ISO)   GNIP Per c-Pito.rmoee  curr....   mak.  prices.. cel-                      urha, ee  rure1) divided by their rnpectI.e  -nbsr If bospital beds
culeed b  cae coverion nothod Se Wcold Set. AtlS. (t1977-79 haste); 1960,                 aatilible  in public end private genral and specilieSd  hospita .    en-
1970, cod  1979 data..                                                                         hhltationcnes   Hospitals Sre coteblisfats psmnsnystfe
tREd  CNIMPTOIPitCAITA-  ecul  onsmpionofccecilecrn   (cal               by etlet one ph sica.  Establishments provding principally oMmtd.isl
!,.g- I ,-,    W g..th.-I                     .2ce -ree  non Pe=aetlysafdby e physician  (hot by a medical emmisn-n
cric.y) ic kilogua  ofcseuvlciprcpr;lO                             90   n  1978nrse, midwife, etc.) which offner in-patient anadatiem  ad prosids 
dote,                                                                                          limited ran ge of meditl.  failitime.  Poe  tntisnisa  p.epeem   sob   beau-
isis include ff08  prt.inte  generPsi and spainlisad  h-pite.". ad neal
POPILATION AND VITAL STATIISTICSI.ptl    ..   rrrlh.itlM                                                                                       d"     Wmamt   mao
Total Pocuictiorn. Mid-Sea  (miILo) -. As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978                   A4dmlsien  re  Hcsrita1 Bad - Total umber of amaim   to ordianhaese
data.             m                                                                          from  hospitals dlividedby the nseer of beds.
Urban Pouain(E.cent of icta   - tatic of urban to total population;
differs.. defintions of urbac area  -e afcic               -pbility of data             HOUSIN
amon   counrie; 1960, 1971, end 197da.                                                  A----a  Once of House.hold (ransom   er2b-M b     bssshedl -  totl. orho. and es
Pouaio irloniTcus                                                                     A h..ahod consists  f A grotp ofiesdieidse who share living q-euts
PPopletion in year 7000 - Current RPopuletto    poetnStar  base.d oniPed thehirmain mas.    bcrdr or ledser my or y sat be imoledad in
total population by ag    .n saad their mortality aud fernility rae.                       the household foresitos   opss
Pv-jnction perenener  for mortaly vanes copieof three levl- asum                       Averua  uuhb  of prnaPertos,   notel.eho  and nol - Avera ge en
log  IIfe  .otpeiacy St birth iPocvatng with toutry's per -epita  moon                    her of p-Ereu  per roe.- Iall  rt  and ruaIonopied covetionl
lee,ed foals lito  enpeotiay stebiliatna at 77.1 yore.  The pare-                      dwellings  respectively.  Dwellinge exlude  --p.-mnet etrntss smd
meesfor fertili ty rate also he- yehree; 1-lnvl   sem        decline ito                . coocpled paine
fertility accrding 00 iccom   leve  audpet family planing perfor--e.e .                 Actrs t.   o Electricity (percent cf dwallinae) - total. orbSg. ad cora  -
lath country Inibs ah-   Signedoneofios  ine combinations of mottaliny                     Co Lvn.i.a  dwellings sink electricity in living quaters. so pseetas.
-d ferility ir .d fo   rJectio  rOpO5.                                                     of1total,  -bn  end  _ore  dwaliegereep-tni-ly.
ituioeryoculaio-Ica  Taionary population there is on growh since
the birth rate isequal.to the death rats, and also the age struture ... ...               CAI
mains c...stat.  This isahiee  onl  ano  fertility canes dsolEDUtCAduTId OcN                             letctc
the replecenee  leve  of  nii not  rerdontion rate, when ob: t  gesteion                  Prmr col-ntel. -is and foa1e  - Ir.ss  .tona, -is end falm
of weoelae  itself exatly.  The  tnationry populationao                                      nolsc   falae  ut the"nmv   ee   spretgeso   nmne
-etimted on the basis of the projected            ohaan faiso  the population                primry  scoiuepopultions; normaly inciudme cblldrn age  6-il
in the year 2000, and the rune of dec1Lne of fertility nste to rePlace                       peer  hot  djustedfor different 1engthe of primery .duntio; for
_nn level.                                                                                  tocuoties citb  -iversa. a1ducn-io   e-r1l        t may  _sced 108 PercenMt
ea    ainaypocu.ladioc is cached - The year whon s-ti-ay popo1etion                  since soePpile eSt  belw -r bove the o fILcn   sobee1  S..
Population Density                                                       e~~~~duca.tion reaia     an loa tfouyerof approved prfaary inatsadism
Per so. ke. -Mld-ymar population per square kilomter (lDO becterse) of                         provides ge          ..e vctional, or tn...ber trgtisg.  m-so-nti-w  fer psePib
totl are.                                                                                  usuall  of 12 no 17 year  of ege; tcrr.PW.spneo    rrmeea  eerly
Per eq. Ze. arutrl.led - Computed a  above fee  Igic                        SMra   ieselded
only.                                                                                      Voca tionlenolmn  (peret of secondary) - Vocational intitutie-
Popolation Alo Stnctue (crco t) - Cbildeen  (G-16 yars), * ering-age  (15-                       inlditcnca, dustriml, or other prgr-  which oprmte  udepe-
64 years), * udrtire  (65 yer  and  -.m) so poroantage  of mid-year p.p.-                      dearly on en departmet  of.secondary ititotion.
aio;1960, l970, and 1978 dan.tPpltecenri                                                                            may   n  seoday-Toe   tedate enrolld in
Poulti    rothSte CoerneIt) - total - Aen1a growh rates of totd  mid-                          PrimaryS and .secodary lvsdivided by  ..br  of tsaoher  in the
year populatons for 195060,  960-7U, and 1970-78.                                       corresponding 1 lels
lpooletion Growh Sate fpoorc.t) -           Iren- Annual growh retes of urbeo p.p.-            Adul t literacy rtno (ecn)-Litrete edu1ta fable te rea  end write)
latio.. f. or9iN _6-bi  1960-0  and l970-7g.                                                   uSa porcentogo oftotal edolt population aged 15 yare and ovr.
Crude Birih  ten  fortosn) - Aneua  live biotha pertohonasud of mid-year
population; 1961,. 1970,. ad 1970 data.                                                 CONSUVMPTION
Crude  eU:th Sanefee  theeaaed  - Annea  deathe per tbhnsand of mid-year                     P.....naslao  fret..  thouad population) - Pnsaange  oars competes Mtns
populution; 196, 1970, and 1970 data                                                         cane  See tin  les  tha  eight persona ; secldes  -bulance, hearses  -d
Irons Reorodootice Rtas- A-rge  numbe  of d-u5hters e  oa ill beer in                            iiay   eils
her nowa  reproductive peciod if she enpen i"nce  Present age-specific fee-                Sadie tevive    (.per thousaud pcpulation) - All types of reeies    r ..dAt
thint ynatee; usualy fv-erargaeding in 1960, 1970, ad 1977.                                  broacats no gesal pcblic Per thous.and of  poplation; eacludas uli-
famiy Planin-Accrtor. Anual  thouands  - Anualnumbr ofOOtenOt  cened rcenvre i  coutnih.andin yare  hen tegiar                 ofin ofradi.se
of biib-cntruideviee uner a Spie  of atoa   feiyLasig    Otm.                      sei   ffc;dt  forrecnt tor  may met he  ompnhi  sines meet
Paily  Pu  UiS-leer   (Drcetl of m    intdwm      froetageof maried                          countries abolished licening.
eomae of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who uSe birth-ccnrt  deiato-                       RVtcevr    .c.thuad ocoolation) - TV recevn. L-- for be..adrat en
all maried  -oe  ioeaaecge 9roup,                                                            genera  publ"ic 'per thoosan-d  .poplanion; ancludes umlic-ad TVreivs
in coun..tries und In yeers whentgstaieof TV sets se  in effect.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                             Newsapr Cir'culation(e   huadpplton       hw   h   vrg   ioua
Index of Pond Prrdcnicn per Cpita (16971-100) - Indee of Per capita acui                         o    fdiy   eee   ntre                            - Shpe" -dfie   me. a - pidicl pb-
Produtionof al fod coandte.    rdcIo    xlde See..d and fend and                       licatico  devvted proianily to recor ding gner.  news   In IS csaidsrmd
In ocalnda  ySt heeils.  Icoaities ovetr primary gaud  g(e.gS.aatan                    n  he  'daily" if in eppens en leest fou  tims  a wssk.
instead of sgrwhich ar   dible  n  contalo eutni-sof   eg  coffe  ad                       Citen    nul At fedaccre  fepita pot fear- Ased on the  -,er of
te  arc excluded) .  Aggregate prcductie of snob ...utny is base d on                         ickets noldAdtriu1grho Test, including adaesion   no drive-in ci-ea
noin l:evrago producer plic, weghnt;f191-6,1970, end 1978 dta.                          en SoIleuis
Pe   uItasuny  fcaoie   eeceto S            enirm4nts) - Computed from
-Illgy equivalent of ner fondteup~plies aveilable in ocantry per ..pit.               L,ABOR FORCE
Per daY.  Ancila-ble euppilee coPrs " domestic produontoc, LmPorne lens                 Cocci Labor yorce (thb...a.ds) - Econoically active persona, inclding
eaports, and changes i  etock.  net epplie   exclud  animal feed, sed,                     end foceod unemloyed bun enolding houaeel-s, etdans  sto.
quoIt ie  used in food prLocessing, and.....e in dietribut ic. teqIrs                     Df inevcoionouteseeotcpahe;1960  197en
nen  er  encted by PAbSed on physiologi-1 nsedn fur nvel ecti-                       1979 deca.
viny and healhb..c.sideniug environmental          taur . bdy weghte, ~                   eal  r       -ce) - Femal  Labor forte aS Percen..tage of total Ilao  fes.
eed too di:atribunion of poptlation, cod ellning 10 percen.t for ...ete a.t               aiclue(rcn-LbrfeeIn farig  foresr. betn ad
,houoodlvl   916,  90   n   97dc.fiohiog anPercnag  oIf tonal labor focce; 1960, 1970'sad 108dana.
Perceitasuplyofcroei  (uem   ea  dy)     Poten  onfctof  ercapta    Inuanr  (ere) - Lahon force is minig. construction,eauctrg
-s  nopply of food Per duy.  Net epply of food is defined an above.   e-                   sod eleoricup, oue  ad gas uS percetage of total labor ferns-; 1960,
qoli--un  foalcostries esnubliehed by USDA provide for Sina,191sd97dne
ol.o.c.c  of 60 gSam   of totl-  proteio pee day cod 20 gram   of animl and             tancpnicSn   pecx)-                  toii  el.ae  foal  . particiation.        o
Pui1o pro1tein, of which 10 gnom  should be emima  pcoten.  Trhese enand-                  aciiycnear.opnde  toa,                     aMi, an  foals labor fos ma
ariscolie1       han those of 75 goon of ntatl protein and 23 gram  of                     percentages. of nc-l male and f en1l  population of alinagm   rmaPetivl.y;
oI-n.poei  a             .neecg   for the wolId, propyc..d by PAO in eke Third          1960. 1970, and 1975 dete.  Trhree are ILOs participation  -aSo reflectin
Acrid P.od nure   1961-65,1970 an  1977 data,                                              ag-e     :tu     tur   fk   poplnio  cud long ties, trend.  A fw  meti-
Per capita croralo  -prly rmaia   n  noise -Proneic supply of food Ie-                  mato  ae   iro   n tioalercp
roe   ro   cxaead        pu-sTngrm          edy; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dt.            Eooi  eednyitc-inco   ouainudr1   n   5ados
Child (sees i-A) Mtaiytofre  thousad) - Aen-l deaths per thoueao  Ic                           totettllbrfre
ege groop 1-A fare, no thlldreu   ithibi  age group; for mos develping coon-tt1   blf--
trios dataderived from  life  tables; 1960, 1970 and 1977 dens.                         INCOME IS1TRIBUTION
Perentgeof  nivisIncome (both incsh anod bind) - Saceisend by richeSt
Life, DoroccaccY at sloth (yeas5 -Aetg  nubor of years of life tenicios                        1pret.rcet1  pnen   ors   1pren,adpoet6   ecn
at brc; 1960, 1971  nd ipyg data.                                                          I    -.I.
Iuf ot HN..t...ty Rtt  fast thoos..       1- Anum  deaths of brute. under one year    pcVEc7Y TARGET GROUPS
of age per theunand live binthe.                                              toni Itatod_ Abolt  Poety      Icm   Lee  (1  _c  caia_          -ura  adcoa 
Number of people (tot1. urbe, aud rura) with raeomable  ccs  to .afe                          -tnitincnnllydrqumte diet plus essential an-food requirats  is eat
estec supl P (Incue  nrontedsofac  wa-tee or  turand hut  -ncotanicated                      ofrdble.
ester  uck a  thatfro    rteceSoeoesopig,ad sntery weIe) an                           .teitisand telativ- Povrty I-ce  Level fUSl Pe. ert)-sca   n   wm 
p-rc-ngro of their respeciv   cpt         aioa.-          an obnreaepublic                     uerliv    oet   vcclvli   n-ho    fseaeptcpt
cond-rdushiowtn resnei  ucs  of thac h..e..    trucl  areb                                  rnnlicn   fth    onr,Ibtlvlisdrvdfo.h    oa
nsaennhe otet  wold iplytha  th  hosoole c  meber  0tcia  ouohcl    leelitch adjuninst for higher cost of living in urbano areas.
l...... bl.   ..Id iIly tht th, h--Ill 11                           natbnatedtP n--hrldePOrio  Ahsciute Poverty I-oo  Level (pottent  - uban.
dvehortupend   dielprouricoa.ts Por  of ihe dcy it fethiog  the                     and renal -. r...c  of. populatice  (urbanedrrl   h   re0benepo'
rurl-  ubr   ofpepl  (tna, orb ac, eel --relsrvd by aoreta
diepesolusPr.. pecenges of their resPectiv- populations.  focreta die-                                                       Ecooic end Social Data Di,,iion
P..sI may include the collection  sod disposal, eith Ic witkhc  nremect-Ooii Analysis and ProJe'tisu  Doparmet
.f h_  ..ott.  .d .. t --tl bY ..t.r-b.r..  y.t-  It th. ... of                                          ~~October 1960
pit privies end smlrieelnos



ECONOMIC IfiDICAT. T_S                                                           ANW.X r
-27-                                                           P.-9  4
Ioe1datlvv       1Z2.9 (-Id-I9?9
NP Per  o Ipla:  US51.687   1Iq79
Ao.n.                           Aa-   ArnnAal Incre- se 177                            S rev         CDP at Market Prtice  (Ul
nd.3 ,c,lc,                                      LellIve USS Cvrrav, (-. on..a a   1970 pric-..)                                                -       (        1 r       )
1979                   1965-70      1$70-7',    1975-80       1980-85            1970     1975      1979      1980b/     1985
(lone doee,le lrodvc,3s'                               204,476                     7.7         10.6 ,         .9          5.4            100.0    104.u    100.0    100.0         (00.0
cArtclrlere                                           19,314                     1.9 S         .7         0 7          4.2-  ..2                   8.7      9.4       9.9         9.4
Irdvvvrv                                             ,65084                      9.2         11.6         7.6          S.5              29.1      32.6     31.8      31.6        31.0
86.970                     8.0        10.7          6.8          S.S              43.0      41.3     42.5      42.6        .2.5
ConsilDprton  163 334       7.7 7         .8         5.7          4.9              76.9     78.6      79.8      79.0        76.3
46.176                     9.4         11.6 S        .2          5.4              23.0      25.4     22.6      21.6        27.9
Erperl of geed. a-d NfC                                 16,714                     8.2         11.7          7.3        10.1               6.6       7.4      8.2       7.8         9.7
freer,. ef voed, Crd W'S                                21.748                    14.5        17.2          2.8          4.9               7.0      :1.4     10.6       9.4         8.9
0r.,e deneestclc.avlre                                  41.142                     7.9         12.9          6.1         6.2              23.1      21.4     20.2      21.0        23.7
A4lmt./                        Aver-.. Ane-al Incre.se (7.)                   Crrplrlenenf Merrh.edle Tr-de Q10
(ril-1e 050 currenU $ --- en 'tan  197'0 eraeah                                               (mc turert prie...
1980                         1969.70      1970-75      1975.80                   1966     1870      197-     19hOb/
Mr-h.andi. Teed.
-er=6andile erporte                                   20.132                            7.8          11.9         5.8t                  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Prlrare                                              9.412                            7.3          8.3         0.1                     82.9     75.1       61.8    46.8
snuf11aevfvr.a                                      t0,720                            7.9          28.2       18.2                     17        24.9     38.2      53.2
8,rch.rdlee lnper,e                                   22,961                           10.0          17.6        -1.6                   100.0    100.0    106.0    100.0
Fre7d                                                1 239                           -3.8         -6.7        17.1                     13        4.5       3.0       5.4
Pecrelnv.e                            ~~~~~~~~~~~                                               ~~10.210  7.634.3         74.1     1.        241       44
Kachroi    r7 d4r 0392                                                               22.1         15.2         7 5                     75.2     21.2      14.0      198.1
O0h0r                                                7.120                            8.3          28 -41t9                            58 6     63.1      58.5      31.0
1975      1976       1977      1978       1979      1980L'
fri-o. ..d T.e-e of T-de
CDP deflatr  (1970-1003                                289.6      41O.9      584.2     809.2   1.229.6    2,469.5
fech.age rate (CrS/USS)                                  8.1       10.6       14.1      18.1       26.9       53.5
tUpert price ilnde  11970-100)                         176        192       226        228       266         290
Itpert prIce lede. (1970-100)                          242        255       286        317        389        431
Ter-  ef trtde m.d.  (1970.100)                         72         75        79         72         68         67
A. 7. ef CDP
lat carrar nt r8,.)
1970....19s75        1977 2         1
CiPc.cbIIc pOfree (C7.ra  Oever.ecr5.
CNPrree  crone.                                                   06.6t      18e(2   .9  20.8            .
Crreet e-p-ediltlr                                                04.4       1         I.8 (  17.6
SvrPlva (.3 -r deitit  -32.2                                                 4.0        I3.
C.ptOg     Pedic.a                                                 2.6        2.8-      3.7
ptraesct8 (eel)                                                   -0.4      9.         -0.5
1965-70 1970.75 1975.79
Ocher Ic,dorcer-
GNP *rexth rare (7                                                             7 .7       10.7          5.8
18P pa  vapor. ra.th rar(.3                                                   6 .6         27           3.8
Feergy  -vr,prlee  grenth rate (7 .2                                                       7.7          6.5
ocor                                                                          2.9          3.0          3.9
8.egleal eavOege rate                                                         20.5        25.7         22.7
.ptter eL.attrily                                                             2.2          1.6          0.3
S/ At mrket pr"ree1 c:epoeeta are net d-meeirc prdo.cte expressed at rareor veer dad
v13 nat dd d.  Ce et clualan ef depr.ctatier aed indirert  _ne. Ieee  iute de.
b/ E. eLrt
¢/ Praltetc.eAv
Apell 23. 19811



-28-                                                                   ANNEX I
P.gr S
DALANCE OF PA6YfNTS, EXTENEAL  APITAL AND DEBT
(elliotn US) a$ current price-)
Popilatio-          122.4 million (mid-1979)
CNP Per Capita:   US$1607 (1979)
ACTUAL                                                                                         PROJECTED
1970            197)            1976            1977           197197            79            )9984j           1981             987            1981            1984
Nc   ooe   fgosodurln                                     -0            572            -,1              407            -,9             -9.7         -12,129            -11,789         -10,421          -,904           -'.1(5
Exports of gOods                                    1,3             (8670)         (10,128)         12 120)       (2,599          (15 244)       (207,12)            24 620          29 431          35,195          42.244
Imports of goods                                    (2,5071        (I2.2101        (12,30])        (12,023)       (13,6011        (17.951)       (22,961)            26 032          28,570          31, 37 333834
Net Ouccor io7o3n -330                                              -       733     -2,189          -2,550         -3,257          -4,740         -7,300             -8,347         -10,031         -11,536         -12,802
(of ohlch lotecest payssnti)                       (-284)       (_1.490)        & 1.809)        (-7,103)          2,694         (-4,104)       (-6,004)          (-6,979)        (-8.6733       (-10,192)       (-11,49E)
Net con- factor serices                               -485          -1,429          -1 574          -1,576         -1,718           -2.327        -2,200             -2,030          -2,251          -2,495          -2,762
Nrt rIon- fern                                             21               2               1                             72              17            150                 41              50              50              50
Cilrreof account halarnc                                -562          -6,700          -6,017          -4,017          -5,927          -9757           -12,179         -11,740         -11,371          -9,923          -7,104
loonct priv ,te   rnverrment2/           92             892             959             810             906           2,200         1,202              1,736           1.967           2.226           2,513
IT11  lon,- e                                            76 7         3,760           5,023           4,631          8,819            4 ,99 5        5,431            11.991          11,583          10,370           7,910
Tradito  a.to                                          (5833)       (1,408)         (2,052)         (2,648)        (2,793)          12,7301       (2,081$            (, 7909)        (3,4 8)         (4,173)         (6,060)
Fi--i.t  -7-    ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ 166)               (4,524)1        (59807          (6,109)       (11,312)          70,008)        (9,57D)    .     (15,6466        (06,151)        (15,519)        (15.454)
Ae  tr-i-aslo                                        (-612)        (-2,172)        (-3,009)        (-4,135)       (-5,286)        (-6,551)       (-7,000)           (-7,449)        (-8,514)        (-9.321)       (-11,604)
Ornollian  boot abroad (nrt)                             -               -197            -248             267           -358            -596            568            -1,082          -1,462          -1,918          -2,521
Oeber coplral n.e.),                       ~~~~          ~~~~~~        ~ ~~248  1.2995  2,27  -507         440             -1           1,459              --                              -               -
Chaognir n raaeroen  )- ccresue .   /                   -545             950          -2 34              -630         -3,080           3,219          3L499              -897            -739            -755            -799
(-t-r ti.s.ol Reser--s-                                1,142          4,036           6,544           7,256          11,826           9,688          6,911             788             8,547                          10099
4 -                                                                          7,256 .       1182                 76008 -18,57                                                 9'301          1,9
R--erest n -onths of inporta                                5 5             3.9             6.3             7'             10,4             6.5           3.6                3. 9.6                          96              3,6
ACTUAL0
1974            1975           1976            1977            1978            1979          1960
Rotneoc I Debt
Total debt  une7tandin8 cod dlnhure-d                                 17,376          232020         20.364           34,440          46.309 70.956                 56,407-
PublicodPublIl   oro.                                                9,394          13.600         17,211           20,434          30,132          3559
official source                                                    3,276           3,911         4,393             4,693          5,354           5,001
13RD                                                             (871)         (1,093)        (1,217)          (1,413)         (1,602)         (1,827)
Other                                                          (2,405)         (2,818)        (3,176)          (3.280)         (3.752)         (3.974)
6,118           9.697        12,010           16,741          24.803          29 291
PcI rate non-grareoneed                                              8,182           9,592         11,100           13,006         16.152          15,864
U(dibureed debt (poblic only)                                         2,524           3.761          6,617            8.290          10,085          12,429
Grosa Diaborsenent
Totel gross dlnburse..nn of 116LT bane                                 7,254           6,912          8,076            9,242          14,927          12,181
PublIc and publicly fcarantend                                       2,937           3,717          4,837            5,380         10.133           8,760
OffIcIal noport credits                                              408             398            393              180             466             399
Oter                                                                 247             250            173              299             275             301
other aultllararel                                 ~~~~        ~~~~~~             ~~~~~~                    ~     ~~~139  -119  111  92  136  207
Private source                                                     2,143          2,950          4 160            4,809           9,286           7 853
Pri-ate nor-guaranteed                                               4,317           3,195         3.239             3,8692         4794            3421
Debt Sertice
Total debt seroir         - peyete                                     3,290           3,670          4,797            6,163           8,017          10,485       12,986
Interest (ear)                                                      (1,370)         (1,498)        (1,809)          (2,103)        (2 694)          (4,104)      (68,O4)
?aymeot.ac    of  toports 4 NFS                                            38DB            37.6          43.0             46.2            57.2            62 7          61-0
Payneots as 7of NlP                                                         3.1             2.9           3.3              3.7             4,2             5:1           5,7
Ane.age Interest rare ont ene  oar.eed loan. (7.)                          10.6             8.7           7.6              8.3             9.9            11.2
Official source                                                          7.0             8 0            7.9              8.0             7,5             8.3
Aoera0e    turity of ret guarnteed leans                                   10.9             9.0          11.2              9.9            10.0            11.5
Offoctal source                                                         146             18.4           16. 3            16.4            14.4            14.1
Pri-ate soirce                                                           9 7             6.9            9.2             807              9,4           11.1
18RD lnoasore
IYDO  000/total DOD (%.)                                                    5.0             4.7           4.3              4.1             3.5             3.6
I819  disburse,aent/1tonal grs   lbreno.(I3.4                                              3.6            2,1              3.2             1.8             2.5
Ib7D debn service/toral debn    rire (7.            7                       2.4            2.5            2 7              3.2             2,6             2.0
An T of tota1 debt o-tonading
atad  fa(.Oabe r 1979
Debt Structure
Maturity structure of debt ounetaudlog                                                                      66.)
Matnritien due within 5 ynart                                                                             92.6
Mantritl-e due nitbio 10 yours
1/   Etlstiar
2/   Excludin  re-io...ted  profits
31   E-oludlno dotla-  -alo-sion adjuunetant  and .oo.tination of d-Uatir gold
4/   Including gold, and dollar oanion ud(ostnnte
5/   loodo only
hI   Detail. uaoalilablo
7/   Yublic dnbr only                                                                                                                                 April 23, 1981



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As April 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty two loans fully disbursed                                 1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power              125.0          10.5
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao        Power               81.0          19.9
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education           23.5          11.5
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways           175.0           9.0
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads              110.0          22.6
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry              95.0          26.4
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry              60.0          30.1
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture         23.0           7.4
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways            75.0          17.2
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0            8.8
1207   1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads        55.0         37.9
1249   1976  Brazil                            Agriculture         40.0          20.9
1300   1976  Eletrobras                        Power               50.0           7.9
1302   1976  Brazil                            Nutrition           19.0          12.7
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply        40.0           7.0
1317   1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry       83.0         79.2
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                         Power               82.0         24.7
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development  42.0           14.7
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer          64.0         37.5
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do             Fertilizer          55.0          2.9
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                            Education           32.0         24.3
1488   1977  Brazil                            Rural Development  17.0           12.9
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sewerage           110.0         94.4
1537   1978  Brazil                            Rural Development  24.0           20.7
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                        Power              130.0        101.1
1557   1978  Brazil                            Roads              114.0         96.3
1562   1978  COPESUL                           Petrochemicals      85.0         34.2
1563   1978  Brazil                            Urban Transport    88.0          61.3
1568   1978  Brazil                            Agric. Extension  100.0          87.4



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of April 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            31.3
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               81.8
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0               96.6
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              98.0          51.7
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            24.7
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            69.6
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0         104.1
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            37.9
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          24.3
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0         109.6
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply         130.0         130.0
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power                114.0         114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0           159.0
1850 /1 1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            139.0         139.0
1867 /2 1980  Brazil                           Education             32.0          32.0
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0            62.9
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                125.0         125.0
1924 /1 1981  Brazil                           Rural Development   56.0            56.0
1939 /1 1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 54.0          54.0
1965 /3 1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport       90.0          90.0
1970 /1 1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            180.0         180.0
Total                                               5,656.6 /4
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  736.0
Total now outstanding                               4,920.6
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid             44.7             1.1
Total now held by Bank                              4,919.5
Total undisbursed                                                 2,772.9
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Became effective on May 12, 1981.
/3   Not yet signed.
/4   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  In addition, a loan of US$250
million for an Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project was approved
on May 12, 1981.



ANNEX II
Page 3
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                 Obligor                                       Type of Business          Amount in US0  million
Year                                                                                                         Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                       Electrical Equipment         2.00       -        2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                            Pulp and Paper               1.20      -         1.20
1958               D. L. R. Plasticos do Brasil, S. A.                          Autouotive Parts             0.45       -        0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A.                             Motor Vehicles               2.45      -         2.45
Industria e Comercio
1959               Companhis Hineira de Cimento Portland, S. A.                 Cement                       1.20      -         1.20
1959               Champion Calulose, S. A.                                     Pulp                         4.00       -        4.00
1966/1968/1972    Aces Villares, S. A.                                          Steel                       8.00    .1.93        9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S. A.                          Pulp and Paper               3.78     3.41       7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Comercio                    Fertilizers                 8.22      3.03      11.25
de Fertilizantes
1969               Petroqulmica Uniao, S. A.                                    Petrochmicals                5.50     2.88       8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S. A. Industrta e Comercio                     Petrochemicals               5.50     2.88       8.38
1971               Oxiteno, S. A. Industria a Comercio                          Petrochemicals              4.60      1.44       6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                    Pulp                        4.90       -         4.90
1972/1975          Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                       Cement                     29.14      3.20      32.34
1977/1981          Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                 Steel                      76.97    11.22       88.19
1973               Capital Market Development Fund -FUMCAP                      Capital Market               5.00      -         5.00
Development
1973/1978          Empress de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                       Nickel Mining and          85.00       8.34     93.34
Minerais - CODU4TN, S. A.                                    Refining
1974               Industries Villares, S. A.                                   Elevators and                6.00      -         6.00
Industrial Equipment
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S. A.                            Textiles                   31.00       -        31.00
1975/1979          Capuava Carbono  Industries Ltd.                             Carbon Black                 6.18     1.19       7.37
1975               Oxiteno Nordeste, S. A.                                      Petrochemicals             10.00       -        10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.               Textiles                     6.45     1.00       7.45
1976/1980          Tecanor S. A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste               Textiles                   16.20       -        16.20
1977                MB S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and AlsminUm          20.00       -        20.00
Castings
1977               Mineracao Rio do Norte S. A.                                 Mining                     15.00       -        15.00
1978               Cimtal Siderurgi. S. A.                                      Iron and Steal              7.0      3.0        10.0
1979               Volvo do Brasil Motores * Vaiculas S. A.                     Motor Vahiei s             60.00    3.00        65.00
1980               Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                            Ready-usde Garments          2.00     -          2.00
1980               Dande do Pars S/A - Depasa - Agriculture,                    Pal-Oil                      3.50    1.00        4.50
Industria e Cpercio de Oelaginosas
1980               Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VlbASA                   Iron and Steel               5.00     -          5.00
J980                PPH - Co-p=ahia Industrial de Polipropileno                  Chemicals and                 .00    2.00         .00
Petrschninals
1980               Destilaria Cianorte S. A.                                    Chemicals and                 -      0.25        0.25
Petrochemicals
1980               Sotave Asszonia Quimica e Mineral S/A                        Fertilizers                 16.00    4.00       20.00
1960               Polisul Petroquimica                                         Chemicals and               15.00    5.00       20.00
PstrochmicAls
1981               Brasilpar                                                    Money and Capital
Markets                            1.50        1.50
1981               Companhia Brasileira de Agropecuaria-COBRAPE                 Food and Food Processing  5.50    3.00            8.50
Total Grons  Commitoments                                                              515.74   65.27       581.01
Less Cancellation., Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                 363.00   11.57       374.57
Total CowmitoentL  Now Held by IFC                                                     152.74   53.70       206.44
Total Undioberned                                                                      100.78   15.87       116.65



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
As of April 30, 1981, there were 45 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923        Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 75% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the generating units is
expected to be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due
to geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 39% over
the appraisal cost estimate, due mainly to a substantial increase in
the size of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of
civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Proposals for
some changes in project components and a postponement of the closing
date are being reformulated by the Government.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 5
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved significantly, further
improvement is necessary for it to be able to attain the targets
established in the loan documents.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 72 weighing stations
(Phase I) has suffered delays because of financial constraints
imposed by the federal government. The closing date originally
December 31, 1979 has been postponed to December 31, 1981, and is
likely to slip another year.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Despite operating performance at nominal capacity
levels, CSN's profitability has been constrained by inadequate
prices and high interest costs caused by excessive reliance on
short-term borrowing, both to cover operational needs and Stage III
capital expenditures, and inadequate equity contributions from
SIDERBRAS. Although the pricing situation appears somewhat brighter
for 1981 (price increases granted in December 1980 and February 1981
enabled CSN to register a moderate profit in the first quarter of
1981), the preliminary 1981 budget for CSN indicates continuing
funds short-falls and little, if any, improvement in its financial
ratios. As a result, the implementation of the ongoing Stage III
Expansion will suffer additional delays and the financial situation
of the Company is unlikely to improve. The Bank has requested the
Government to develop a plan of action prior to July 31, 1981, to
bring CSN into compliance with the financial and project implemen-
tation covenants of the Loan Agreement.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Despite operating performance above nominal
capacity levels, the Company suffered a loss in 1980. This was the
result of inadequate prices, and high interest costs caused by
excessive reliance on short-term borrowings and inadequate equity
contributions from SIDERBRAS. Although the pricing situation
appears somewhat brighter for 1981 (price increases in December 1980
and February 1981 enabled COSIPA to register a moderate profit in
the first quarter of 1981), the preliminary 1981 budget for COSIPA
indicates continuing funds shortfalls and little, if any, improvement



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 6
in its financial ratios. The substantial cuts made to COSIPA's
capital expenditure budget (about 40% below 1980 levels in real
terms) will cause further delays in the implementation of the Stage
III Expansion (one year or more), increase the overall capital costs
as a result of increased escalation, suppliers' and contractors'
penalities, and further aggravate COSIPA's financial position and
cash flow by delaying future production increases and increasing the
financing requirements to levels beyond what would be required if
the projects were completed as scheduled. The Bank has requested
the Government to develop a plan of action prior to July 31, 1981 to
bring COSIPA into compliance with financial and project implementation
covenants of the Loan Agreement.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. A series of contract amendments recently
signed by CODEVASF should result in a more rapid progress of
civil works and in accelerated disbursements. The Bank has
agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to replace works previously
planned for certain areas with the rehabilitation of works in
several flood plain areas which suffered heavily from floods in
1979. Land acquisition has been carried out in all flood plains
but one, which is to be expropriated in 1981. CODEVASF is taking
steps to improve the maintenance of the channels and pumping
stations in the irrigation system.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. The project, as redefined to take into account FEPASA's weak
financial position in 1976-78, is nearing completion. FEPASA's
operations continue to improve significantly. Freight traffic
increased 25% in 1980 compared to 1979. The railway has reduced
its operating cost by 12% in real terms in the past year due to
reduction in staff and improvement of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but activities related to land and inland fisheries have recently
shown good progress.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 7
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Fifteen sub-loans involving twelve different
states have been approved, committing the full amount of the loan.
Construction has been completed in two states, Goias and Bahia.
Construction is underway in five additional states, Minas Gerais,
Mato Grosso do Sul, Paraiba, Alagoas and Santa Catarina. Twenty-
five percent of the physical work foreseen under the project, about
1,600 kms, is now completed. Sub-loans are fixed in ORTN terms
(Indexed Accounting System), but the ORTN lost about 40% of its
purchasing power in 1980, and the sub-borrowers (states) are having
to finance all cost overruns. This is causing serious difficulties
to the states. The Bank is reviewing with Government the financial
participation of the involved agencies in order to ease the financial
burden on the states and to maintain the implementation schedule.
Project completion will be delayed by at least two years.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Several restrictions placed on hiring of new
staff, including local consultants, import restrictions and reduc-
tions in the number of staff participating in either long- or
short-term training programs constrained project implementation in
1980. The controls were instituted as part of the Government's
economic stabilization program and adversely affected the implementa-
tion of this project. However, the restrictions were recently largely
waived for this project, allowing implementation to resume satisfac-
torily.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. The agreed targets for con-
nection of low income households have been widely exceeded. Sub-
stantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project should respond better to the Government's
institutional priorities; its progress would be assessed in the
field in late Spring 1981.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 8
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete. The Closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.
1317       Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1981) commitments for the second loan began only in 1979. However,
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and
Government's policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated to
the actual inflation rate temporarily rendered the balance of this
loan unusable on the conditions set out in the Loan Agreement.
However, the Government has recently indicated its intention to
follow a revised monetary correction system under which the level
of indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation and which
is more in line with the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrange-
ments for monitoring the adequacy of monetary correction have
recently been agreed with the Government. Accordingly, new commit-
ments under this loan are now being approved, and disbursements
began in April 1981.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the original closing
date of December 31, 1981.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by about 18 months may be necessary to allow full
completion of all key components.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 9
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
fourteen months. Commercial production is now expected to begin
in March 1982. The estimated cost to complete the project is still
in line with the budget estimate. The closing date for this loan
was postponed to May 31, 1982.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project has been physically completed, and
the facilities are being tested and commissioned. The Closing
Date has been postponed to December 31, 1981 to allow for completion
of trial runs before final payments are made on certain equipment
and service contracts.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of most training centers is proceeding well.
The delay in the acquisition of suitable sites for hotel schools in
Brasilia and Rio de Janeiro, has compelled the Government to request
substitution of a new hotel school, and of several industrial and
commercial training centers, for these two hotel schools. The
requisite amendments to the loan documents have been formalized
and signed by both the Government and the Bank.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and land purchase has now started for a first
small group of farmers. Agricultural credit has suffered from
shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infrastructure
is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties in
administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project is well advanced; however, because of financial constraints
the pace of execution is slow for those project components not
financed by the Bank. Project completion is expected to be delayed
by about two years.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 10
1537       Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project administra-
tion. Several components, such as land, non-farm rural enterprises,
and agricultural credit, show encouraging progress. However, the
pace of execution of other project components, most notably, marketing,
is still slow.
1538       South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Regarding the sub-project of CEMIG (one of the
three beneficiaries under the Loan), the last supervision mission
found that delay in project execution was now also due to financial
difficulties which originated in low tariff levels that gave CEMIG
a 7.9% rate of return on remunerable investment instead of the
minimum of 10% allowed by Brazilian legislation. All available
funds were channelled to the Emborcasao hydro project which CEMIG
considered its first priority and current expectations are for a
2-year delay in project completion. The sub-projects of CELESC and
ESCELSA have similar problems, and project completion is expected
to be delayed by about two years.
1557       Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980. However, since then works have been
suspended because of financial constraints imposed by the federal
government. Rescheduling of the works is being discussed with the
Government. The maintenance program in the state of Parana is
progressing well. The second phase of the weighing station program
will not begin until the first phase (under Loan 1075-BR) has been
completed and the effects monitored. Project completion could be
delayed by one year.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 60%. Commencement of commercial operations is now
expected in October 1982, about 10 months behind schedule, reflecting
the slow start of some of the downstream projects. The anticipated
cost to complete the project is presently running about 2% above the
original estimate.



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 11
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of Mlay 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project imple-
mentation. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and
project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1980. Early
local funding delays appear to have been resolved. The Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984,
in part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of
incremental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use
of consultants. Overall, project activities appear to be pro-
ceeding reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been sharply reduced. Extension and land titling
services have been improved. At this time, lack of land purchase
credit is the main difficulty in achieving balanced progress
of the project. The quality of feeder road construction has been
uneven, but supervision of construction is being strengthened. The
health component is proceeding smoothly; however, the education and
water supply components are far behind schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets seem to have been overcome in at least two of the
three states involved. The National Housing Bank is preparing a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in the housing improvement loans component.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. However, because
of initial difficulties, the project may be completed with about a
one-year delay.



-40-
ANNEX II
Page 12
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding without major problems, but a delay of
six months and a cost overrun of 10% is expected.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services have come very close
to first year targets and are exceeding second year targets. The
land titling and colonization components are progressing more
slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results. The
management of the project has become quite effective, and the
monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after a slow start due
to the change in Government.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to continuing delays in the release of
federal funds. Project administration has recently improved but
coordination among the entities involved in its execution is not
yet satisfactory and calls for close supervision. The agency
responsible for the village water supply component has not performed
adequately and is being replaced by another entity. The recommenda-
tions of the land tenure study are still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. An acceleration of disbursements should result
from contracts signed for the construction of irrigation and
drainage networks in three flood plain areas. The new CODEVASF
regional directorate has rapidly and competently taken charge of
protection, irrigation and drainage works. There is a continuing
need, however, to strengthen CODEVASF's capacity to supervise
assistance provided by various state and federal agencies, and
to follow-up on the implementation of the rice drying, storage
and processing component.



-41-
ANNEX II
Page 13
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. Five sub-projects committing about twenty
percent of the loan have been approved which will benefit the states
of Pernambuco, Ceara, Espiritu Santo, Acre, and Sergipe. Seventeen
other sub-project applications have been received by the National
Development Bank (BNDE). The feasibility studies for eight of these
sub-projects are at an advanced stage of preparation. As for Loan
1207-BR, the implementation of this project will depend on suitable
measures being adopted to ease the financial burden on the sub-
borrowers (states) considering loss of purchasing power of the ORTN
especially in 1980.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, but the first subprojects should reach the Bank shortly.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. The project has experienced initial
delays, but all subprojects have now been declared eligible for
disbursement and project execution is now underway.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.



-42-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country
to prepare project:        Approximately one year and a half
(b)  Project prepared by:        EMBRAPA assisted by consultants
(c) First presentation
to the Bank:               October 1979
(d) Departure of
Appraisal Mission:         August 1980
(e) Completion of
Negotiations:              May 12, 1981
(f) Planned Deadline
for Effectiveness:         October 15, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) EMBRAPA to carry out, no later than June 30, 1984, a detailed
review of the adequacy of project execution arrangements, consult
with the Bank on findings and recommendations and promptly
implement agreed measures as deemed advisable (para. 49);
(b) EMBRAPA to maintain and adequately staff a special civil works
coordinating unit as well as apppoint a Project Coordinator
within ACI no later than September 30, 1981 (para. 49).
(c) EMBRAPA to prepare annual implementation plans for the project,
including annual estimated budget and lists of purchases, to be
submitted to the Bank no later than November 30 of each year
(para. 51);



-43-
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) EMBRAPA to provide the Bank with aggregated semi-annual monitoring
reports prepared by research centers (para. 53);
(e) EMBRAPA to submit to Bank review reports on evaluation studies,
to arrange for a mid-term review of the project during the third
year of project execution -- such review to be carried out by
internationally recognized experts selected and employed under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and the resulting
recommendations to be carried out after consultation with the
Bank (para. 53);
(f) EMBRAPA to contract, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, one or several specialized advisory agencies to help
administer the project's fellowship program to be carried out
abroad (para. 54);
(g) EMBRAPA to contract, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, an agency or agencies specialized in identification
and contracting of foreign consultants (para. 55); and
(h) Government to provide necessary import and other permits and
licenses promptly (para. 56).






COLOM~~~~~~~~~1AV  Bo ~~~~~~~~BRAZ IL
;'Ma                     Ai                   Boavl_stao,',_                                           5 
AGRICULTURAL RESEARH
E  PROJECT
Location of Research Sations
S~  s
-E];:cle<:                   0 ;10I pe,itr            sino                 C               NORTE
~~  5                 a....i...it,.    -u.~~~~~~~~~~~.  ze~ro
£Poto P4   E  R    l                                                                        U                                    e-i1e. \aI rrso
L-\       Rio Birnco.                                                                                                                                               ~
~7 ~Xopuri~S   -                  R1§                                                                                                                           ia  Ps
S~alvador
<;'  ; t SC'I..5;  :  2  i;52    Cujtab' g                                      BRASiLlA,UPiarltoinc
-                               &                                 i BE .O L I V  If: <o0 RonrdonopoW  laA
(  BO~~~~~~LIV-JA                              A~~~~~~    Goi6nma        - 
P A   C  /f /C                                                                           poGra nle           ,,,dLe Sete                  opo 'i
j,  *    : ::1, i' ' '' '  if  u«1   i       g                  , 't Belo Horizonte  =          r
OCf                                              A N                                                                   tIPachecio
0   C  E  A   N                                   'PARA                                                                              EMSaPAoCPNTER
HonIo I  f   0   R |:  ;,   = ,  j   t  ,            EMBfRAPA HEADQUARTERS NATIONAL CAPITAL
0,0    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~EDPRODUCTIONCETR
;1 RESEARCH SERVICE CENTERS
SOUTH          I 4  L'  >  At: aq X:  ;=    =    f :  i: , n 2:  X 022           )       f                                        .    FIELD EXPERIMENT UNITS
/   i59  .   ;       =        - _   ;Conco doctf  s}    ANIMAL HEALTH PROGRAM MORME8NAIPCENTERS
A  G  E  N  I                     Flor Ono ol s                       U~~~~~~~~~~~~ ARtEA AGRIICULTURAI, RESEARCH CENTERS
BRAZIL          R              T          A              hc1do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Foranroi                   A    NATIONAL COMMODITY CENTERS
$ ~>8<osL   l             ar  l, / 0 -}                                                                                     0 0;;  . A   R :rG E N  T  ffi A  t 0   UEPAE OR SATELLITE STATIONS
AM  RlCA  r't           ' /r |-;\                                                 Po   l                       |                     *    STATE AND TERRITORY CAPITALS
4   p7  '~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~'~~~~'                                                      L  ro, g0                   TOWNS
o    t f;          c-   A  ................. rSc \;                                                                                             2 Vi 040$ i :>tle (cX' STATE AND TERRITORY BOUNDARIES
~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       >-         155~~~~~~~0I   20  3V 4  EM        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KM "  0 -     ';::g/4RIVERS
HDO~~~A0)S1    50001100                               0    1150   200   30) M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILES
URUGUAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k
HR* OEt.HH¶0A5d.iFs  NI           50*                                 AS*                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30. 






IBRD-11884R
-~~~~~~~~~                          09               £0. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH  190)
7?.  . 0 r ' '          t    2                                                             c  c o n
;;^ ~~~1 \ _ > 0 >A<t1 ~~~~MACt
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- ? -                                  <                                                                                     <      r
R At/anTic  OcGeanO S- A .                                                           E
-AtfE~~~~~~                   -/    <NC>t        <7 <o U>A* A;  OPAo
A C R ~ ~ ~ ~~~              t)     t            Axp/
pj           -.                                        /W e~0  4                                            V   99.4   ORTALEA
'0      '  ,                                              R0    0;)NEfiGejrr4LJ
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. i ,  , !;2A S  tii  
<7                                                          PARA1  QfESSOA~BRSIL
-Al~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
it   C~9                                                                                          ITR A     0009
AGRKULTURM RESEARCH II    C                  t~~~~UL
-0                                      CiRT            S. 
00  SL    4             k      LOHRIZOTTARVIORI
r    0      7ZQ0                           4 L,ZJRGRANDE4---
¶111]                                          S~~~~~~~~~ SL PO   LORT PALA no



