Report No. 23384
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/13/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CHILE Project ID: P069259
Project: Public Expenditure Management Project Task Team Leader: Roberto
0. Panzardi
Appraisal Date: November 20, 2001        IBRD Amount ($m): 23.23
Board Date: January 17, 2002     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSPS     Sector: BF - Public Financial Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)       Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
This Public Expenditure Management Reform Project (PEMR) would support a
second generation of reforms to improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and
transparency of the Chilean public administration (including all
centralized and decentralized agencies with the exception of public
enterprises, universities and municipalities), in order to strengthen the
country's ability to implement its economic and social development
programs and help reduce poverty. By establishing a modern and integrated
financial management and resource allocation system, it would strengthen
core public sector institutions' ability to provide quality service
delivery, improve efficiency within tight fiscal constraints, and respond
more efficiently to the globalization process.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed project addresses the key challenges in public expenditure
management in a comprehensive manner. Specifically it would: (i)
establish a modern integrated financial management system in the central
government and public agencies as a basis for modern information
management and streamlined business processes, permitting more operational
decentralization with normative centralization; (ii) promote budget reform
through a medium term expenditure framework involving multi-annual
financial planning and deepened focus on results oriented budgeting; (iii)
upgrade civil service management information systems and their linkage
with performance evaluations and agency budget results; and (iv)
strengthen the institutional capacity of line agencies in the areas of
financial and human resource management. The project would finance
technical assistance, goods and equipment including information technology
(hardware, software, and telecommunications equipment), and training. The
project will be implemented in stages, seeking to identify and use lessons
learned internally and from international experience, while maintaining
fiscal control.
Component 1 - Financial Management Modernization
This component will support the a comprehensive effort to modernize and
integrate the government's financial management information system through
related information technology and sub-system reform components.
Financial Management Information System (FMIS)
The information technology sub-component would support the design,
testing, and installation of a modern integrated financial management
system through consulting services, institutional capacity building of
financial management units, training of staff, and information technology



investments. The core of the component would be the development of a
unified information management system with the following characteristics:
(i) modular design and integration into a single homogeneous system for
the entire public sector, in accordance with the established budgetary and
accounting standards, and the needs and management characteristics of the
institutions; (ii) validation of transactions and instantaneous recording
of data where and as the operations take place, avoiding the re-entry of
data; (iii) extensive use of advanced means of data communications (in
particular, the government Intranet, which will support on-line processing
of transactions), as required by each of the project's components and
institutions, with adequate security levels and audit trails; (iv)
availability of special modules to aid in the analysis of alternative
scenarios to help in decision-making during financial planning, budget
formulation, and budget execution; (v) early identification of overlaps
and potential areas of coordination among entities conducting independent
activities with similar goals, and better targeting of beneficiaries
through "virtual" institutions or services (multi-sectorial and/or
multi-institutional programs); (vi) maximum transparency, through
provision of information over the Internet, so that every citizen and
authorized personnel, based on access levels, may navigate among the
various public services, identifying programs, projects, products, inputs,
performance levels, goals, and objectives of institutional budgets at the
national, regional and sectorial levels; (vii) continuous evolution and
improvement of the system, through, among others, the establishment of
authorization levels and relations among users, implementation of security
systems, the establishment of links to others sub-systems (such as
procurement, public credit, fixed assets and inventory management, public
investments and human resources) and development of additional
functionality to respond to new information requirements or to support new
means or forms of access to the information.
The overall development strategy is based on the now standard three-tier
information systems model, brought about by the revolution caused by the
Internet and Internet-related technologies, by which users will access the
system through Web-like interfaces. Given the tradition of different
institutions of using diverse database management systems, and the
reluctance of some of them to move towards a centralized database system,
the applications developed will support multiple database management
systems from different vendors, and a "virtual" central database system
will be created with standards-based exchange of information (such as
through XML) . The system will be the same in every institution, but will
have the ability to produce information at three major levels of
aggregation: central, sectorial or ministerial, and institutional.
The project will deploy modules as they become available in a pilot group
of five institutions first, beginning with the budgeting and accounting
modules in early 2002. Other main modules, on treasury and financial
planning, among others, will be developed through mid-2002. The final
version will also include auxiliary modules on mid-term programming and
information reporting, among others, which will be available by early
2003. After the first version has been tested in the five pilot
institutions, the system will be expanded to twenty more institutions
during 2003 and to the rest of the public sector during 2004.
Related Sub-Systems Reform
-2-



The IT systems will be developed simultaneously and in close collaboration
with reforms in policies and norms and business process reengineering in
accounting and cash management in order to maximize gains in efficiency,
effectiveness, and transparency. In accounting the project will support:
(i) review and updating of the accrual based public accounting system
including the national Chart of Accounts to ensure its compliance with
generally accepted international standards; (ii) improved recording of
budget commitments, execution, and contingent liabilities; (iii) more
explicit identification of cost centers, by program, project, and/or
public services to facilitate results evaluation; (iv) development of
financial performance indices and coefficients to better estimate and
monitor general expenditures (overheads); and (v) improved accounting for
state assets (property and real estate) laying the basis for applying
capital charges to agencies for use of those assets. In cash management,
the project will support (i) improved policies and procedures for cash
planning (involving better reporting on budget commitments and analysis of
past cash flow); (ii) simplification and standardization of payment
processes; (iii) faster and more automatic reconciliation of bank accounts
(comparing public accounts balances reported by banks with Treasury's
information); (iv) strengthened guidelines and procedures for short term
investments, debt, and seasonal cash surpluses in order to increase
returns on government funds; and (v) improved reporting to senior
officials to facilitate timely decision-making.
Component 2 - Budget Reform to Create a Medium Term Expenditure Framework
Multi-Annual Financial Planning
A multi-annual financial planning sub-component would support
strengthening the government's capacity to focus on macroeconomic, fiscal,
and public investment policies, linked to resource allocation
decision-making and the budget in a forward looking multi-annual
context.   Using improved information on budget execution and results
performance, the aim is to increase the focus on strategic considerations
for longer term budget formulation, strengthen the efficiency and
accountability of sector spending within hard budget constraints, and
reduce the gaps between policy making, planning, and budgeting. A
capacity would be developed to create realistic rolling expenditure plans
that integrate current information on fiscal projections, sector
priorities, recurrent spending implications of investment programs, and
evolving national priorities. Key tasks include: (i) developing financial
planning methodologies (policies and procedures) to incorporate consistent
and realistic projections of out-year resource inflows and recurrent and
capital expenditure options; (ii) strengthening management systems to
promote appropriate analysis of funding alternatives in DIPRES; (iii)
strengthening of management systems to promote adequate analyses and
studies of budget allocations, financial projections and medium-term
policies and improving mechanisms for decision-making within both the
Executive and Legislative branches; (iv) training of DIPRES and public
agencies personnel on the use of medium-term financial planning
methodologies and techniques; and (v) strengthening the institutional
capacity of a unit responsible, within the Ministry of Finance, for the
formulation of the medium term financial planning and projections. This
effort would lay the basis, should the government so decide, to publish
multi-annual budgets.
-3-



Budgeting by Results
A budgeting by results sub-component will support the Budget Directorate
(DIPRES) in the development of methodologies that strengthen the
implementation of the existing programs for result-oriented budgeting:
Performance Indicators, Evaluation of Governmental Programs, Comprehensive
Evaluations, and Governmental Priorities Fund. Key tasks would include:
(i) technical assistance for key aspects of public program evaluation,
focusing especially in methodologies of impact (outcomes) evaluation. It
would cover methodology aspects and techniques focused on specific sectors
(education, training, environment, health, etc.) as well as approaches
relevant to all sectors. The beneficiaries of this technical assistance
will be professionals responsible for program evaluation at various
ministries and agencies, and in DIPRES; (ii) the development (or
improvement) and implementation of an information sub-system or interfaces
that would provide data required for a strengthened and integrated
evaluation effort; (iii) knowledge dissemination of the different programs
developed for result-oriented budgeting, allowing the consolidation of
these programs and the creation of an evaluation culture. This task
includes carrying out of workshops and seminars for professionals
responsible of the different result-oriented budgeting programs
(performance indicators, evaluation of governmental programs, etc.) at
various agencies and ministries and the publication of documents; and (iv)
review of international experience with result-oriented budgeting to
identify those practices applicable to Chile.
Component 3 - Human Resources Management Information System
This component would fund the design of a human resources management and
control information system which would support sector strategic goals,
agency results, and performance evaluation of public employees. The
project would fund: (i) design and installation of an electronic human
resources management and control information system covering personnel
registries and personnel histories covering all public employees.
Inter-agency connectivity and linkage to the financial management
information system will improve decision making processes relating to
budget formulation, resource allocation, policies on selection, training,
evaluation, and incentives of staff and performance evaluations; (ii)
installation of the information system in line and rector agencies; and
(iii) transfer of existing paper based human resource information in the
Comptroller General's Office into these databases.
Component 4 - Strengthening Financial and Human Resource Management
Units
Chile has decided to intensify, and make more coherent, its state
modernization reform effort in line agencies. A key pillar of this would
be to strengthen the capacity of the financial and human resources
management units in those entities. This would support both the
implementation and sustainability of the Public Expenditure Management
project, but more generally the effort to create results oriented
organizations with the tools (trained staff, equipment, regulatory
framework, and culture) to achieve these broader goals. Specifically this
component will seek to strengthen institutional capacity in the Ministry
of Finance, Office of the Comptroller General, and financial/human
- 4 -



resources management units in line agencies in order to successfully
implement the other project components (FMIS, budget reform, and human
resources management information). The component would fund: (i)
organizational diagnoses in the agencies, especially related to budget and
finance; (ii) implantation of the new systems including limited
investments in computer technology and equipment, training, and
certification of institutional capacity, with reengineering of financial
processes as required; (iii) regulatory adjustments as necessary; (iv)
monitoring and evaluation of reform implementation; and (v) an education
campaign (including seminars, workshop, surveys, media) to inform the
public, civil servants and the civil society on the financial management
modernization program. Its implementation would be phased, targeted first
on rector agencies (Ministry of Finance, Comptroller General's Office) and
a few pilot agencies, and then rolled out more broadly to all central
government entities. Protocols delineating the roles of the rector
institutions, agencies, and project would be signed to guide the process
of implementation. Incentives to the line agencies include access to
training, upgraded equipment, improved management of financial and human
resources, and better planning and evaluation capabilities.
Component 5 - Reform Management
This component would finance the costs of the project coordinating unit
(PCU) within the Ministry of Finance. It will finance activities, goods
and services including international and local staff, support personnel,
operating costs, and equipment for the unit. The PCU would be responsible
for the supervision of the project, contracting of and monitoring of
consultants, oversight of project finances and technical outputs,
preparation of reports to the Government and the Bank, and contracting
auditing of the project.
Components:
Financial Management Modernization
Budget Reform to Create a Medium Term Expenditure Framework
Human Resource Management Information System
Strengthening Financial and Human Resource Management Units Management
Reform Management
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
N/A
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: No adverse environmental impacts are expected from this project.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
-5-



Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)        No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
None
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
None
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
None
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
N/A
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
- 6 -



community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Roberto 0. Panzardi      11/14/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         11/29/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Ernesto May      12/13/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 7 -



