Documenit of
The World Bank
Report No: 23380 CH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOClUNI F.NNT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$23.23 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A
PIJBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
January 22, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 22, 2002)
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (Ch$)
Ch$1 = US$0.0014
US$1 = CH$ 710.35
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APP          Annual Project Plans
CAS          Contry Assitance Strategy
CGO          Comptroller General's Office
DIPRES       Budget Directorate in the Finance Ministry
FMIS         Financial Management Information System
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstraction and Development
IDA          International Development Association
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          Internatinal Monetary Fund
IFM          Integrated Financial Management
MIDEPLAN     Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
MOF          Ministry of Finance
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PAFCUProject Administrative and Financial Coordinating Unit
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
PEM          Public Expenditure Management
PEPG         Evaluation Program of Governmental Projects
PMR          Project Management Report
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SIGFE        Integrated Financial Management System
SOE          Statement of Expenses
TOR          Terms of Reference
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:  Ernesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Roberto 0. Panzardi



CHILE
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      14
3. Benefits and target population                                                     15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           19
2. Financial                                                                          19
3. Technical                                                                          19
4. Institutional                                                                      19
5. Environmental                                                                      20
6. Social                                                                             20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 21
F. Sustainability and Risks
l. Sustainability                                                                     21



2. Critical risks                                                                    22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    22
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          23
2. Other                                                                             23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        37
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          38
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   39
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      40
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    48
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  49
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 50
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           52
MAP(S)
IBRD 25555



CHILE
Public Expenditure Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSPS
Date: January 22, 2002                            Team Leader: Roberto 0. Panzardi
Country Manager/Director: Myma L. Alexander       Sector Manager/Director: Ernesto May
P'roject ID: P069259                              Sector(s): BF - Public Financial Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
EX] Loan     I ] Credit   [ Grant      [] Guarantee      [ Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 23.23
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                          Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%                            Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      10.27           0.00         10.27
IBRD                                                          13.15          10.08         23.23
Total:                                                        23.42          10.08         33.50
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF CHILE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FfNANCE
Address: Ministry of Finance, Piso 12 , Calle Teatinos #120, Santiago, Chile
Contact Person: Roberto Cerri, Advisor to the Budget Director, Ministry of Finance
Tel: (562) 688-3496           Fax: (562) 671-1351           Email: rcerri@dipres.cl
Other Agency(ies):
Comptroller General's Office
Address: Calle Teatinos # 56, Santiago, Chile
Contact Person: Pedro Ortiz, Chief Accounting Division, Comptroller General's Office
Tel: (506) 698-0285           Fax: (506) 696-6374           Email: portiz@contraloria.cl
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY          2003      2004       2005       2006
L        Annual    7.50        6.00       6.00       3.73
Cumulative    7.50       13.50      19.50     23.23
Project implementation period: 4 years - Fiscal year 2003 includes PPF expenditures.
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
(:'AD I  rAP R. Maet, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
This Public Expenditure Management Project (PEM) seeks to improve the effectiveness, efficiency,
and transparency of the Chilean public administration by establishing a modem and integrated
financial management and resource allocation system (complemented by ongoing or pending
reforms in e-government, decentralization, civil service reform, etc.). The project's components
would strengthen financial management, accountability, and transparency within tight fiscal
constraints.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards program objectives over the course of the PEM would be the following:
*   A functioning integrated financial management system in 2 rector agencies (Ministry of Finance
and Comptroller General's Office) and 3 pilot agencies by 2002 (including core sub-systems of
budget formulation and execution and accounting); in 25 line agencies by 2003 (including core
sub-systems plus cash management and treasury); and in 171 agencies (all centralized and
decentralized entities) by 2005.
*   Results oriented budgeting introduced by 2003.
* Functioning medium term financial planning procedures and institutions at the national level by
2004.
*   New budget evaluation system implemented in all agencies in year 2004. Budget results
implemented in at least 20 agencies explicitly linked with Budget Directorate (DIPRES) in year
2003.
* Human resources management information system to support national, sectorial and institutions
management piloted in 5 agencies by June 2003; and, in use in at least 200 agencies (including the
171 agencies above) by 2004.
* Results oriented government indicated by: agencies assuming increased responsibility for
decentralized financial management systems and medium term financial planning; improved
efficiency of human resources tools including more timely and accurate human resources
management information; functioning evaluation systems leading to modifications in agency budgets
and policy priorities stemming from evaluation results; and improvements in critical performance
indicators measuring service delivery in agencies.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 23329-CH Date of latest CAS discussion: February 19, 2002, planned
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Chile targets poverty reduction as its primary goal. To
this end the Bank has successfully collaborated with several Chilean adrninistrations to support
selective public sector modernization efforts where the Bank has international experience and
comparative advantages. The proposed project would directly support the objectives enunciated in
- 2 -



the new CAS of: (i) modernizing the state, and the legal, administrative and institutional framework
to promote and facilitate private sector development; (ii) supporting full implementation of social
and economic development progranis and e- *'r  , and (iii) assuring an integrated framework for
municipal and regional government strengthening by streamlining central administration functions
and social fund operations.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Chile successfully completed the first generation of political economy reforms during the 1980's and
1990's. Privatization, deregulation, tradle liberalization, and sound fiscal and monetary policies
were pursued by several Administrations. Public finances improved through tight controls on
spending and extensive reforms in revenue policy and administration, and as a result Chile has
recorded overall budget surpluses in 9 of the last IO years. Public employment has been kept small
relative to the size of government and international comparisons. Significant innovations were
advanced in the areas of health and education service delivery, pensions and social security, and
E-Government. Building on the base of fiscal discipline, considerable talent in both the public and
private sectors, and careful reform design and implementation, the country ranks positively in
international surveys of business competitiveness and level of corruption.
E-Government in Chile
Chile is a pioneer in the area of e-government thanks to early efforts to modernize the public sector, reform the
telecommunications sector, and improve the cornpetitiveness of the local IT industry. The Presidential
E-Government Directive of May 11, 2001 seeks to capitalize on this favorable environment and on the positive
results already achieved. New initiatives, such as the e-procurement portal "Chilecompras", and strategic use
of Information and Communications Technologies (ICTs) both as a catalyst of public sector modernization
efforts and as a vehicle for the delivery of better government services, would make public administration more
transparent and accessible to citizens.
The Presidential Directive establishes three strategic directions which all government agencies will have to
follow when developing their own e-government action plans:
1)    enhancing the interaction with the citizen, by facilitating access to relevant government information by
citizens with appropriate security levels and the development of one-stop "electronic windows" that seamlessly
cross organizational boundaries;
2)    improving the internal effectiveness and efficiency of the agencies and inter-agency relationships,
through continuous introduction of lCTs, training and process re-engineering, development of information
systems that have the needs of citizens and other agencies in mind, and use of common standards, particularly
for Web presence; and
3)    deepening participation by citizens in decision-making processes, through the provision of easily
understandable and searchable Web-based information as well as creation of channels for citizen feedback to
enhance transparency and responsiveness of government.
A number of outputs of the project can be seen in the light of this E-Government strategy. The integrated
financial management system will allow the executive to present to Congress, interested parties, and to civil
society a multiplicity of reports on budget execution, further enhancing the transparency and social control of
public expenditure. A large variety of such reports will be made available via a Finance Ministry Website. The
human resources information system will automate the generation of multiple statistical reports, organized
according to a wide range of criteria, on the current and historical make-up of the civil service. A large number
of such reports will also be made available via the Web.
- 3 -



Chile, nevertheless, faces pressures of competition (especially given its location far from major
markets), increasing citizen demands for improved services, and vulnerability to external shocks. It
needs to increase the agility and flexibility of its economy to respond to shifting economic
opportunities, while continuing to extend the benefits of growth. The administration of President
Ricardo Lagos Escobar is therefore seeking to deepen public sector modernization in order to
squeeze out further improvements in efficiency and effectiveness, enhance transparency and access
to information, as well as promote a culture of service and public participation. New or intensified
second generation reforms in decentralization, out-sourcing, strengthening the professionalism of the
civil service, results focus and citizen feedback are being pursued. State modernization would also
support the Government's fiscal goal of achieving a structural and sustainable budget surplus
equivalent to I percent of GDP from 2002 onwards.
A pillar of Chile's state reform program will be accelerated modernization of public expenditure
management. It is important to note that Chile's budget processes have been successful in
producing fiscal surpluses supporting macroeconomic stabilization. The system is markedly
"hierarchical" --the Ministry of Finance takes precedence over the sectorial ministries and agencies
in the formulation of the budget, and the executive branch rather than the legislature has the last
word in the approval process. The Congress can only reduce proposed spending and cannot adjust
revenue projections or reallocated funds among programs. The budget is detailed (more than 4,000
items plus approximately 1,000 special clauses), comprehensive (covering the bulk of the public
sector), and strict deadlines are mandated by law and observed in practice. A degree of flexibility
exists in execution, given Chile's long reliance on decentralized "national services" (autonomous
agencies under the coordination and normative direction of ministries). Cash funds are transferred
by the Finance Ministry on a monthly basis to these entities based on a cash allocation schedule
drawn up at the beginning of the year.
Despite its successes, by the first half of the 1990's the system was seen as undermining the
allocative and efficiency goals of modern budgeting. The system retained a focus on controlling
expenditures of liquid resources (not promoting efficient and effective use of those resources,
assessing the results of spending, or fully accounting for the economic costs incurred). As a result,
line agencies are weak in financial and human resource management and are not acting as full
partners in the planning and execution of their operations. A lack of adequate and timely
information, and a limited planning and evaluation capacity undermine service delivery, especially
measured against the standards of Chile's global competitors. Specific problems include the
following: (i) the government's financial management systems are overly decentralized, inadequately
integrated, and do not provide real time data or adequate performance monitoring information; (ii)
the formulation and supervision of macroeconomic policy and public investment suffers from
organizational overlaps, gaps in information, and an insufficient coordination especially between
economic and social sector ministries and on inter-temporal decisions; (iii) the Budget Directorate in
the Ministry of Finance does not have sufficient capacity to properly analyze and formulate
multi-annual financial planning taking into account macroeconomic and public investment
circumstances; (iv) a modern human resource management information system and a procurement
system, both linked to financial management, does not exist; (v) the bureaucratic culture remains
input driven rather than results oriented; (vi) the government lacks a broadly disseminated and
robust system to evaluate budget execution; and (vii) more fundamentally, the legislature and public
still sees the government budget process in terms of fights over incremental annual changes in
resource allocations rather than an opportunity for more informed debate on strategic goals and
trade-offs. In this regard the Administration is concerned that inadequate public access to, or focus
- 4 -



on, information relating to public choices puts the country at continued risk of adopting
ill-conceived populist policies.
During the 1990's the government initiated a series of reform measures including the development of
performance indicators, results evaluations, and performance based pay schemes. Based on these
efforts, and a concern that a more coherent and aggressive commitment to modernization is
required, the authorities have now designed a comprehensive program designed to improve the
trade-off between tight fiscal control and effective program execution. It involves a three-track
approach very much in line with international trends in budget reform:
*   provision of increased flexibility by spending agencies in their access to budget funds and the
uses to which funds can be put;
*   provision of greater predictability in the operating environment of spending agencies,
particularly in regard to availability of funds; and
*   increased pressure on agencies to pursue improvements in program results.
Each of the tracks is essential because the provision of more flexibility and predictability to
spending agencies without accountability for results could lead to reduced fiscal control without
improvements in efficiency and effectiveness. It is anticipated that line agencies will support the
reforms in order to secure greater control over their operations while the central agencies (Ministry
of Finance and Comptroller General's Office) would improve expenditure control through an
expanded ability to identify and more easily withdraw funds from unproductive activities.
Moreover, the focus on results and involvement of stakeholders (line agencies and Congress)
through the formulation and discussion of multi-annual financial plans would promote transparency
and more "collegiate" (rather than hierarchical) participatory decision-making.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The sector issues to be addressed by the project include the following:
Deficient public sector financial management information system. Chile does not have a fully
modem integrated financial management system (policies, procedures, and information technology).
The Government as a whole has some 117 different financial management information "systems",
with 16 entities with semi-manual systems. The systems themselves are rigid (financial transactions
must be reported to agency headquarters to be entered into the system, rather than having a single
entry at the source of the operation), inadequately integrated and interconnected (internally, much
less with the Ministry of Finance and Comptroller General's Office-CGO), and lack real time
information or sufficient performance monitoring data. Consequently, there are delays of up to 7
weeks or more in reporting some financial transactions to the Finance Ministry, information is
provided in different formats inhibiting financial and economic analysis, transaction and
maintenance costs are high given the various software and hardware systems and need for multiple
data entry, there is inadequate control over the budget commitment process, the diffusion of
government bank accounts is costly to administer and undermines cash and debt management, the
systems are not linked to other information systems in public investment, debt, procurement, and
human resources, and the existing cash control systems lack flexibility and responsiveness. The
authorities are particularly concemed about the lack of appropriate controls and information on
agencies' commitments (a "floating debt" that can represent a major blind spot in fiscal
management). Moreover, there are rigidities and outdated policies and procedures in key
sub-systems of budget formulation and execution, accoun ting, cash management, procurement, etc.



In the area of procurement, the government has introduced in Congress new legislation for
improving the existing framework, but additional efforts are required to improve the regulations
framework and procedures so as to reduce transaction costs on the private sector.
Nascent methodology for results-oriented budgeting. Chile has initiated several programs to
increase the focus on budget results: (i) since 1997 an Evaluation Program of Govermnental
Projects (PEPG) within the National Evaluation Program has targeted some 20 projects per year for
analysis jointly by the Ministry of Finance and the responsible institutions with the aim of
identifying action plans to improve performance; (ii) starting with the 2001 budget, proposals for
new programs or the reformulation or substantive expansions of existing programs are submitted in
standard format to a Government Competition Fund overseen by the Ministry of Planning and
Cooperation (MIDEPLAN) and the Finance Ministry with the aim of applying more coherent and
transparent standards prior to their incorporation into the budget proposal; and (iii) since 1994
(excepting 1998-2000) various indicators and performance goals have been incorporated in the
budget to enhance its analysis and the discussion within the Congress. In the 2001 budget some 275
indicators were included covering 72 public services.
However, further efforts are required to make performance evaluation a generalized practice in the
formulation of a results-oriented budget. Agency budgets, in many cases, continue to be vague as
to specific goals, without clear performance indicators for intermediate or final results. Allocations
continue to be based on expenditure categories and not on outcomes sought or achieved, ignoring
the need for value for money, and rewarding activities that are not duly justified in light of
government policy or which have become obsolete based on changing social needs. The effort to
focus on evaluation and results is more a concern of the Finance Ministry than of the agencies or
their financial units, and thus the efforts to evaluate performance are frequently an imposed
requirement with a more limited impact on daily resource management and administration at the
institutional level. Agencies must incorporate evaluation methodologies for budget formulation and
review, and deepen their commitment to a results focus.
Limited medium-term financial planning. A primary goal of financial management and budgeting
reforms is to create a more predictable and performance based system for allocating public
resources. This means moving from a detailed focus on incremental annual changes in budget line
items and internal government negotiations over relatively minor adjustments in current programs
and overall agency spending ceilings to a more comprehensive understanding and review by all
stakeholders of national priorities and government spending trade-offs in the medium term. Chile
has already undertaken several initiatives in this regard. As for predictability, since 1975 the
country has had a multi-annual capital budget. The surplus target for the next fiscal year is also
clearly specified, with coherent and consistent goals for the growth of current expenditures, capital
investment, revenues in terms of ordinary receipts and reduction of tax evasion, etc. Medium term
programmatic goals, including forecasts of global supply and demand at the sectorial and at a
majority of agencies are articulated by the line agencies, for example health services, education and
housing. However, at the agency level there are only few financing plans beyond one year, which in
addition to limiting decision-making in establishing commitments or payment obligations for the
future, weakens the efficiency of public budgets in the framework of medium-term institutional
planning. During the 1990's the Budget Directorate in the Finance Ministry began preparing
rolling financial plans covering agencies for two years into the future. However, because of
concerns such plans would be seen as commitments rather than indications of possible spending,
they were neither prepared nor shared with line agencies. Consequently, the Finance Ministry
makes projections without necessarily having adequate substantive input, and line agencies do not
- 6 -



have an appropriate level of responsibility over their own strategic planning and budget formulation.
Agencies prepare longer term sectorial strategies with limited attention to budget considerations
because they do not have the capacity (techniques, methodologies, software, trained staff, etc.) to
plan their medium-term financial needs. This undermines collaboration and the basis for discussion
and consensus-building among the various actors in the budgetary process. The Government
recognizes, given its desire to expand capital spending to improve the social and physical
infrastructure of the country, and the need to provide greater budget certainty to agencies which will
be held more accountable for results, that the multi-annual budgeting process must be significantly
strengthened.
Weak human resources management information system. The record of human resource
management in the Chilean public sector is mixed. The civil service, in comparison to many other
countries, is perceived as honest and relatively efficient. Although its morale has suffered from
significant downsizings, fluctuating compensation, and public denigration by several
administrations, the overall quality of performance appears to be rated well by citizens and external
investors. Nevertheless, serious challenges remain if the civil service is to attract, motivate, and
retain high quality staff capable of improving services to citizens. Separate job and grading
classifications among public institutions hamper mobility (an employee must resign from the civil
service before being appointed to another agency) and undermine optimal distribution of staff and
skills within the public sector. Although Civil Service legislation was approved in 1989, its
regulations have not been adequate to appropriately improve the operation of the civil service
system in terms of job evaluation, training, firing, pay flexibility, promotion and rotation of staff to
better serve the public, and in general creating a merit based system linked to sector goals, agency
results, and/or individual performance. Chile lacks a well functioning human resource rector
institution and competent units in line agencies. Finally, the government does not have a modem
and reliable human resources information system with up-to-date position descriptions, personnel
database, and establishment registers. The Comptroller General's Office (CGO) is responsible for
administering a semi-manual based record keeping system and also approving the hiring, promotion,
and firing of all staff within the central, regional, and municipal governments. But there is a
proliferation of heterogeneous systems of varying adequacy which do not provide sufficient
information to senior agency and government officials, and which inhibit government wide
operations (transfers, agency evaluations, cost-controls, etc.). The existing systems do not respond
to current requirements and are not electronically linked to the other management information
systems, further limiting their usefulness. The oversight efforts of the CGO are based on
documents (which have not been transferred to electronic data bases). The available information
technology in the CGO and in the institutions is obsolete (much of the equipment is more than
twenty years old), blocking electronic data transmission and utilization of digital signatures. The
quality of the information held in these old systems is suspect in any case due mainly to the multiple
reentry of the data.
Weak financial and human resources units in public agencies. Chile has significantly
deconcentrated/decentralized public sector operations. Autonomous "national services" handle the
bulk of government operations and service delivery. This structure was chosen in order to improve
responsiveness and bring decision making closer to the client. As indicated above, however,
deficiencies in management systems, policies, and procedures are leading to reduced efficiency,
effectiveness and transparency. The heterogeneity of management information systems and lack of
inter-connectivity within the agencies and with other central government units reduces the
Government's overall responsiveness and agility, undermines transparency., fosters change
- 7-



resistance, and creates disincentives for public employees across agencies. The poor quality of
many of these systems undermines the agencies' own financial and human resource management,
inhibits strategic planning and proper budget execution, and hampers efforts to focus on results.
These deficiencies remain despite piloting of organization focused reforms over the last decade
designed to modernize entities. These efforts have included: (i) the promotion of planning and
evaluation culture through the implementation of so called "ministerial goals" whereby ministries,
services, and regional governments identified their main annual goals; (ii) during 1994-1997, some
128 public agencies subscribed to "modernization commitments" covering areas of information
technology, decentralization, delegation of responsibilities to lower management and the use of
performance indicators. Public agencies were offered bonuses for engaging in modernization (6% of
the funds allocated for wages in the institutional budgets) and institutional performance bonuses (up
to a 3% increase of the funds allocated for wages) for results achieved; and (iii) in 1998, Congress
passed legislation requiring all national and regional public agencies to implement "Management
Improvement Programs" which incorporate tools such as strategic planning, ministerial goals and
modernization commitments with familiar programs for bonuses and incentives.
To address these concerns several strategic choices were made:
1.    The project would build an integrated financial management system rather than update the
existing and more decentralized systems. With PPF funds a conceptual framework for an integrated
(through information technology, standard norms and procedures, and system oversight) and
modern financial management system has been developed. It will include core sub-systems of
budget, accounting, and treasury, with the public credit, public investment, procurement, and
public assets sub-systems to be developed/refined and incorporated subsequently into the broader
system. While operational decentralization will be maintained (and even expanded in the sense of
carefully modifying a priori controls over spending), the strengthening of normative centralization
permitted by the new system will increase accountability to senior govermment officials and the
public and improve budget decision-making and execution.
2.    The integrated financial management tool will be linked to broader institutional reform
initiatives. An improved financial management system will permit the government to develop a
medium term expenditure focus and results oriented budgeting. It will also help the Government
implement the new civil service legislation linking more closely salaries to personnel evaluation and
performance.
3.   A selective approach to piloting the new system reflects a careful concem to learn and apply
lessons and target first the reforms in agencies with proven leadership and commitment. Piloting
organizational reforms in the Budget Directorate of Ministry of Finance and Comptroller General's
Office, the rector organizations, would lead by example.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project addresses the key challenges in public expenditure management in a
comprehensive manner. Specifically it would: (i) establish a modern integrated financial
management system in the central government and public agencies as a basis for modern
information management and streamlined business processes, permitting more operational
- 8 -



decentralization with normative centralization; (ii) promote budget reform through a medium term
expenditure framework involving multi-annual financial planning and deepened focus on results
oriented budgeting; (iii) upgrade civil service management information systems, which would also
permit their future linkage with performance evaluations and agency budget results; and (iv)
strengthen the institutional capacity of line agencies in the areas of financial and human resource
management. The project would finance technical assistance, goods and equipment including
information technology (hardware, software, and telecommunications equipment), and training. The
project will be implemented in stages, seeking to identify and use lessons learned intemally and from
international experience, while maintaining fiscal control.
Component 1 - Financial Management Modernization
This component will support a comprehensive effort to modernize and integrate the governmenfs
financial management information system through related information technology and sub-system
refonn components.
Financial Management Information System (FMIS)
tJnder the PPF, the project developed a conceptual module and a basic operational prototype to test
the main functionality of the final system, engage end-users in the process, and validate its design
before launching full development efforts. The project has also supported under the PPF the
development of a budget formulation sub-system on the web as a tool to help institutions in
formulating the FY 2002 budget. This was a substantial success as all but one ministry used this
tool.
This sub-component would support the design, testing, and installation of a modem integrated
financial management system through consulting services, institutional capacity building of
financial management units, training of staff, and information technology investments. The core of
the component would be the development of a unified information management system with the
following characteristics: (i) modular design and integration into a single homogeneous system for
the entire public sector, in accordance with the established budgetary and accounting standards, and
the needs and management characteristics of the institutions; (ii) validation of transactions and
instantaneous recording of data where and as the operations take place, avoiding the re-entry of
data; (iii) extensive use of advanced means of data-communications (in particular, the government
Intranet, which will support on-line processing of transactions), as required by each of the project's
components and institutions, with adequate security levels and audit trails; (iv) availability of
special modules to aid in the analysis of alternative scenarios to help in decision-making during
financial planning, budget formulation, and budget execution; (v) early identification of overlaps
and potential areas of coordination among entities conducting independent activities with similar
goals, and better targeting of beneficiaries through "virtual" institutions or services (multi-sectorial
and/or multi-institutional programs); (vi) maximum transparency, through provision of information
over the Internet, so that every citizen and authorized personnel, based on access levels, may
navigate among the various public services, identifying programs, projects, products, inputs,
performance levels, goals, and objectives of institutional budgets at the national, regional and
sectorial levels; (vii) continuous evolution and improvement of the system, through, among others,
the establishment of authorization levels and relations among users, implementation of security
systems, the establishment of links to others sub-systems (such as procurement, public credit, fixed
assets and inventory management, public investments and human resources) and development of
additional functionality to respond to new information requirements or to support new means or
-9-



forms of access to the information.
The overall development strategy is based on the now standard three-tier information systems
model, brought about by the revolution caused by the Internet and Internet-related technologies, by
which users will access the system through Web-like interfaces. The development and
implementation technology is standard and well-proven.
Given the tradition of different institutions of using diverse database management systems, and the
reluctance of some of them to move towards a centralized database system, the applications
developed will support multiple database management systems from different vendors, and a
"virtual" central database system will be created with standards-based exchange of information
(such as through XML). The system will be adapted to individual agency needs, but will have the
ability to produce consistent information at three major levels of aggregation: central, sectorial or
ministerial, and institutional.
The project will deploy modules as they become available in a pilot group of five institutions first,
beginning with the budgeting and accounting modules in early 2002. Other main modules, on
treasury and financial planning, among others, will be developed through mid-2002. The final
version will also include auxiliary modules on mid-term programming and inforrnation reporting,
among others, which will be available by early 2003. After the first version has been tested in the
five pilot institutions, the system will be expanded to twenty more institutions during 2003 and to
the rest of the public sector during 2004-2005.
Related Sub-Systems Reform
The IT systems will be developed simultaneously and in close collaboration with reforms in policies
and norms and business process reengineering in accounting and cash management in order to
maximize gains in efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency. In accounting the project will
support: (i) review and updating of the accrual based public accounting system including the
national Chart of Accounts to ensure its compliance with generally accepted international standards;
(ii) improved recording of budget commitments, execution, and contingent liabilities; (iii) more
explicit identification of cost centers, by program, project, and/or public services to facilitate results
evaluation; (iv) development of financial performance indices and coefficients to better estimate and
monitor general expenditures (overheads); and (v) improved accounting for state assets (property
and real estate) laying the basis for applying capital charges to agencies for use of those assets. In
cash management, the project will support (i) improved policies and procedures for cash planning
(involving better reporting on budget commitments and analysis of past cash flow); (ii)
simplification and standardization of payment processes; (iii) faster and more automatic
reconciliation of bank accounts (comparing public accounts balances reported by banks with
Treasury's information); (iv) strengthened guidelines and procedures for short term investments,
debt, and seasonal cash surpluses in order to increase returns on government funds; and (v)
improved reporting to senior officials to facilitate timely decision-making. To complement the
major progress being achieved in government procurement reform, the project will finance: (i) a
compilation and review of the existing public procurement regulations (which vary among agencies)
and comparative analysis with international best practices; and (ii) on the basis of that review,
preparation of draft regulations to the new procurement law now before the Congress, if and when
enacted.
- 10-



Procurement Chile
Procurement Legal Framework
The general principles ruling public procurement in Chile are contained in the "Constitutional Organic
Law on General Basis of the State Administration" (Law Nr. 18.575 of 1986), and its amendment, the
"Law on Administrative Probity Applicable to the State Administration Agencies" (Law Nr. 19.653 of
1999). Both laws basically state that administrative contracts shall arise from public bidding, that private
bidding may be followed only when adequately justified by competent authority and that sole sourcing
depends upon the nature of the contract. On employment methods, these laws indicate that any person
meeting the requirements on qualifications and experience has the right to compete for a public job. These
laws also indicate that administrative decisions are subject to complaint, which may be raised to the
I authority that made the decision (the Ministry of Finance in the case of this project) and further appealed
to the higher authority (in practice, the CGO). Additionally, in 1981 Chile accepted that international
treaties, like Bank Loan Agreements, prevail over local legislation, by signing the 1969 Vienna
i Convention on Treaties Law. May 2001, the govermment proposed, and the parliament is considering, new
legislation to improve the existing legal framework by authorizing e-procurement and by creating a
central procurement office, which will be in charge of providing guidance and purchasing standardized
goods and services.
The Chilean procurement legal and regulatory body does not constitute a uniform and comprehensive
system and some of the rules and practices are not consistent with Bank's, as it was revealed by two
Procurement Capacity Assessment carried out by Bank staff. Though the above described basic principles
are uniform: (i) the lack of specific regulations and (ii) the delegation of authority to the different agencies
has resulted in fragmented procurement procedures that are not uniform in application. They depend upon
the regulations that each of the agencies may have issued and on the practices that the agency has
i customarily been following. In the Bank's view, this lack of comprehensive and uniform regulations is
against the principles of economy, efficiency and transparency. Although the government believes that its
procurement information system provides the necessary tools for competition, flexibility within agencies,
and control by the citizenry, they expect that the central procurement office to be created will contribute to
consolidate uniform procedures, to the extent that agencies voluntarily use the Sample Bidding
Documents to be prepared by the office.
'The PEM project would give the Chileans and the Bank the opportunity of further discussing the issues
described above. To this end, the project would finance a study aimed at identifying and compiling current
procurement procedures. The project would further finance the hiring of international consultants to
compare the Chilean framework with internationally accepted practices. Considering the results of this
assessment, the project would finance the drafting of the necessary regulations, including if enacted the
regulation to the new e-procurement law.
Procurement Information System
| In the area of e-procurement, the Chilean Government has been very successful in the implementation of
an internet-based system for disclosing information on procurement. Furthermore, the grounds for the
implementation of internet based purchases are being established. The Chilean procurement site can be
visited at http://www.dae.cl. This portal includes links to (a) Chilecompra, and (b) Cotizaciones.
Chilecompra is the site that discloses information on public procurement as mandated by Decree
1312/1999. Chilecompra is among the most complete web pages in the LAC region. It publicly discloses
downloadable bidding documents and their amendments, summaries of minutes of bid opening
ceremonies and of reports on recommendations for awards, resolutions of awards and several different
managerial reports. Cotizaciones offers access to the sites of three marketplaces that are already operating
in Chile. Suppliers subscribed to those marketplaces receive notifications of bidding opportunities in their



areas of interest by e-mail. Electronic quotations submitted through the marketplace have been so far
partially accepted by CGO, which considers them equivalent to faxes. Likewise, the Bank has accepted
them exclusively for shopping procedures under this project.
Decree 81/1999 states that pilot plans will be implemented to further develop and prove technology on
digital signature and electronic documents.
The project also would develop linkages between the procurement and the financial management systems,
aimed at increasing the efficiency and transparency of the administrative processes. This may include
using the information obtained from the budgeting process to more clearly identify procured goods and
services in a consolidated manner and the accounting of commitments. These linkages would serve the
purpose of imnproving budget management by better accounting for purchases. Institutions' procurement
plans would be added to information that is already being disclosed through the web page, as is being
done in other countries like Mexico.
Component 2 - Budget Reform to Create a Medium Term Expenditure Framework
Multi-Annual Financial Planning
A multi-annual financial planning sub-component would support strengthening the government's
capacity to focus on macroeconomic, fiscal, and public investment policies, linked to resource
allocation decision-making and the budget in a forward looking multi-annual context. Using
improved information on budget execution and results performance, the aim is to increase the focus
on strategic considerations for longer term budget formulation, strengthen the efficiency and
accountability of sector spending within hard budget constraints, and reduce the gaps between
policy making, planning, and budgeting. A capacity would be developed to create realistic rolling
expenditure plans that integrate current information on fiscal projections, sector priorities, recurrent
spending implications of investment programs, and evolving national priorities. Key tasks include:
(i) developing financial planning methodologies (policies and procedures) to incorporate consistent
and realistic projections of out-year resource inflows and recurrent and capital expenditure options;
(ii) strengthening of management systems to promote adequate analyses and studies of budget
allocations, financial projections and medium-term policies and improving mechanisms for
decision-making within the Executive branch and providing information to the Legislative branch;
(iii) training of DIPRES and public agencies personnel on the use of medium-term financial
planning methodologies and techniques; and (iv) strengthening the institutional capacity of a unit
responsible, within DIPRES, for the formulation of the medium term financial planning and
projections. The authorities intend that this effort strengthen institutional capacities in the line
agencies and Ministry of Finance, with the latter significantly deepening the analysis of alternative
macro-fiscal scenarios and cost estimates of policy/program options presented to the Congress as
part of the annual budget debate. This effort would lay the basis, should the government so decide,
to publish multi-annual plans.
Budgeting by Results
A budgeting by results sub-component will support the Budget Directorate (DIPRES) in the development
of methodologies that strengthen the implementation of the existing programs for result-oriented budgeting:
Performance Indicators, Evaluation of Governmental Programs, Comprehensive Evaluations, and
Governmental Priorities Fund. Key tasks would include: (i) technical assistance for key aspects of public
- 12 -



program evaluation, focusing especially in methodologies of impact (outcomes) evaluation. It would also
cover methodologies and techniques for specific sectors (education, training, environment, health, etc.) as
well as approaches generally relevant to all sectors. The beneficiaries of this technical assistance will be
professionals responsible for program evaluation at various ministries and agencies, and in DIPRES; (ii)
developing and improving methodologies to evaluate the impact (outcomes) of targeted strategic public
programs. This task will imply the generation of a control group for the evaluation, and the development,
improvement and implementation of management systems (including the generation of required data) for
evaluations and appropriate analysis of funding alternatives in DIPRES; (iii) knowledge dissemination of
the different programs developed for result-oriented budgeting, allowing the consolidation of these
programs and the creation of an evaluation culture. This task includes carrying out of workshops and
seminars for professionals responsible of the different result-oriented budgeting programs (performance
indicators, evaluation of governmental programs, etc.) at various agencies and ministries and the
publication of documents; and (iv) in conjunction with the above efforts, review of international experience
with result-oriented budgeting to identify those practices applicable to Chile.
Component 3 - Human Resources Management Information System
Under the PPF, the project has financed an initial design of a new human resources management
and control information system, under joint leadership by the Comptroller General's Office and
DIPRES. This initial design has led to a simple Web-based prototype, which has allowed users to
validate the functionality expected from the final system.
This component would fund the final design of the system which would support sector strategic
goals, agency results, and performance evaluation of public employees. The project would finance:
(i) design and installation of an electronic human resources management and control information
system covering personnel registries and personnel histories covering all public employees.
Inter-agency connectivity and linkage to the financial management information system will improve
decision making processes relating to budget formulation, resource allocation, policies on selection,
training, evaluation, and incentives of staff and performance evaluations; (ii) installation of the
information system in line and rector agencies; and (iii) transfer of the human resource information
existing in the Comptroller General's Office into this new human resources system.
Component 4 - Strengthening Financial and Human Resource Management Units
Chile has decided to intensify, and make more coherent, its state modernization reform effort in line
agencies. A key pillar of this would be to strengthen the capacity of the financial and human
resources management units in those entities. This would support both the implementation and
sustainability of the Public Expenditure Management project, but more generally the effort to create
results oriented organizations with the tools (trained staff, equipment, regulatory framework, and
culture) to achieve these broader goals. Specifically this component will seek to strengthen
institutional capacity of the Budget Directorate in the Ministry of Finance, Office of the
Comptroller General, and financial/human resources management units in line agencies in order to
successfully implement the other project components (FMIS, budget reform, and human resources
management information). The component would fund: (i) organizational diagnoses in the agencies,
especially related to budget and finance; (ii) implantation of the new systems including limited
investments in computer technology and equipment, training, and certification of institutional
capacity, with reengineering of financial processes as required; (iii) regulatory adjustments as
necessary; (iv) monitoring and evaluation of reform implementation; and (v) an education campaign
(including seminars, workshop, surveys, media) to inform the public, civil servants and the civil
- 13 -



society on the financial management modernization program. Its implementation would be phased,
targeted first on rector agencies (Budget Directorate in the Ministry of Finance, Comptroller
General's Office) and a few pilot agencies (Metropolitan Housing Service, Health Sub-Secretariat
and Telecommunication Sub-Secretariat), and then rolled out more broadly to all central
government entities. The Government would phase subsequently implementation by selecting
agencies, through a matrix process, giving primary emphasis to the following selection criteria:
geographic presence, complexity of their operation and services provided, functional diversity,
leadership and commitment to reform, and percentage of the public expenditure budget. Protocols
delineating the roles of the rector institutions, agencies, and project would be signed to guide the
process of implementation. Incentives for the line agencies include access to training, upgraded
equipment, improved management of financial and human resources, and better planning and
evaluation capabilities.
Component 5 - Reform Management
This component would finance the costs of the project coordinating unit (PCU) within the
Directorate of Budget in the Ministry of Finance. It will finance activities, goods and services
including international and local staff, support personnel, operating costs, and equipment for the
unit. The PCU would be responsible for the supervision of the project, contracting of and
monitoring of consultants, oversight of project finances and technical outputs, preparation of
reports to the Government and the Bank, and contracting auditing of the project. Project audits will
be financed by the loan proceeds.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
l___ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ _ _  (US$M)  Total  (US$M)  financing
Financial Management Modernization  Institutional     11.85      35.4      9.02       38.8
Development
Budget Reform to Create a Medium  Institutional        1.91       5.7       1.55       6.7
Term Expenditure Framework       Development
Human Resource Management        Institutional         2.42       7.2       1.93       8.3
Information System               Development
Strengthening Financial and Human  Institutional      13.06      39.0     10.40      44.8
Resource Management Units        Development
Management
Reforrn Management               Other Public Sector   4.03      12.0      0.10        0.4
Management
0.0                 0.0
Total Project Costs                  33.27      99.3      23.00      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.23       0.7      0.23       1.0
Total Financing Required                    33.50     100.0     23.23      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support several key institutional reforms underway in Chile, by:
- 14 -



* establishing a new integrated financial management system throughout the central government
and decentralized public agencies;
*   improving MOF and line agencies' capacity to formulate, execute and evaluate results oriented
budget based on outputs and services delivered;
* strengthening the government capacity to establish macroeconomic, fiscal and public investment
policies and mechanisms to analyze options and alternatives; and
*   implementing a human resources and control management information system in the CGO and
line agencies.
3. Benefits and target population:
The effective implementation of this project would contribute to the attainment of the following
benefits: (i) a more effective, efficient, and transparent public sector; (ii) creation of more results
oriented organizations with clearer missions and ability to respond to evolving national priorities;
and (iii) more rapid and transparent reporting of relevant fiscal performance information to the
public. The primary beneficiaries will be the government agencies where the sub-systems are
implemented, including the MOF and CGO and all agencies using the new systems. Secondary
beneficiaries will be Chilean taxpayers and citizens, especially those most dependent on government
operations and assistance. Thirdly, investors should benefit from faster government services at
lower cost and with more access of information.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project coordination and Management.
The Government has created a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) within the Budget Directorate in the
Ministry of Finance responsible for the administration of the project. It will be headed by a Project
Director and comprised of a procurement expert, chief financial officer, and experienced professionals
assigned to assist in the implementation and monitoring of major project components. The PCU will
manage the procurement and disbursement aspects related to contracting of consultants, financing of
salaries, and the provision of goods and equipment under this project. It will coordinate the provision of
technical assistance services to other beneficiary agencies in accordance with procedures specified in a
project implementation manual (completed before Board presentation), and ensure that bidding,
procurement, contracting, and disbursement takes place within Bank guidelines and the loan agreement.
The PCU will also be responsible for preparing or reviewing specifications for all equipment purchases.
A procurement assessment of the PCU by a Bank specialist has been completed and an action plan agreed
upon. The Bank-'s standard procurement documents for the employment of consultants will be used without
substitution or modification of the terms and conditions except with the prior approval of the Bank.
Consultant services will be procured in accordance with provisions of the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultancies by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999). Goods will be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Financial Management.
A financial management assessment by a Bank specialist has been completed. The review included visits to
the PCU, and was based on the Bank's guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System." It
- 15-



focused on assessment of the project's accounting system, staffing, internal control, planning, budgeting
and linancial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well as the format and contents of the Financial
Monitoring Report (FMR).
The Financial Management Specialist confirmed that the project satisfies the Bank's financial management
requirements in accordance with OP/BP 10.02. The project has in place an adequate accounting system
that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information financial statements, flow of
funds reports, SOEs reports and special account reports. The PCU does not have yet a financial
management system as will be required by the Bank/IDA for FMR-Based Disbursements. Nevertheless, a
traditional (SOE) based disbursement method has been established and the project expects to produce
FMRs within 6-moths period after effectiveness. The financial department will be headed by a qualified
financial officer and sufficiently staffed by an accountant to keep adequate records and prepare necessary
financial statements, and auxiliary staff to execute financial operations and provide control over project
assets.
In accordance with the terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, the project will be externally audited
every year by an external auditor (private firm) and, if requested under the Chilean laws, by the CGO. The
audit report and the opinion with the related statements will be presented to the Bank within 4 months of the
fiscal year's end.
The PCU will have an Operations Manual describing in detail the procedures of all financial operations:
cash receipts, disbursements, control over advances, replenishment procedures, account reconciliation and
controls, and reporting requirements. The PCU would prepare six-monthly progress reports (with
substantive, procurement and financial indicators) required for Bank review or supervision during the
execution of the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements.
In line with Bank rules, emphasis will be placed on continuous monitoring and project supervision, the
identification and incorporation of lessons learned, and consensus building. Performance indicators to
measure inputs and process, and outputs and outcomes are defined in Annex 1. To promote project
integration and lesson learning across agencies, semi-annual supervision missions would be held to review
progress achieved and decide on necessary adjustments, discuss the draft progress reports, and review
proposals for the following year. The oversight provided by consultative groups from civil society offers
an additional vehicle for feedback and development of broader political consensus during project execution.
Annual Project Plans (APP) prepared for each forthcoming project year would include detailed activities
and costs. A project launch workshop consisting of the PCU, rector institutions, and public agencies would
be organized by the PCU to reinforce implementation and define monitoring responsibilities. Upon project
completion, the PCU would collaboration to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within a
period of six months.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several alternative were considered for this project. First, it is possible to continue with agency or function
specific interventions to gradually reform public sector financial management. Whatever the benefits
achieved so far, however, there is concern that an increased degree of consistency in core financial and
budgeting processes is needed to maintain fiscal performance and to improve system oversight, public
policies, and bureaucratic culture. There is a concern that the core public finance agencies are not able to
- 16-



provide adequate policy input to, or dialogue with, line agencies. Imposing the reform top-down to all
public sector institutions simultaneously was considered technically and politically risky. The selected
third option is a gradual approach, with phased intervention in selected institutions and with tested tools in
place to support reforming institutions.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision    l
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  DevelopmEmt
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Increase efficiency of public sector  Chile: Second Public Sector  S            S
institutions                      Management Project (LN.
2504-CH)
Increase efficiency of public sector  Chile: Second Public Sector  S            S
institutions                      Management Project (LN.
3411-CH)
Decentralization, weak municipal  Municipal Development Pilot      S            S
government                        Project (Loan No. 3668-CH)
Decentralization, weak municipal  Chile: Second Municipal          S            S
government                        Development Project (LN.
4429-CH)
Other development agencies
Improve public policy planning and  IDB / ATN/JF-4900-CH
reform
Civil society and state           IDB /
Improve commercial arbitration and  IDB / ATN/MT-6376-CH
mediation services
Local development program, Phase III IDB / 853/OC-CH
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Key lessons leamed in World Bank projects and applied in this operation include:
First, the need for borrower commitment, strong project leadership, and an appropriate macro-economic
framework. As indicated above the Government has established a high level oversight commission, created
a project coordinating unit within the Ministry of Finance, and is adhering to a strong macroeconomic
program.
Second, in line with the 1997 World Development Report, the project: (i) builds on the redefinition of the
role of the Chilean state, by supporting operational decentralization but with appropriate policy oversight
and uniform standards; (ii) seeks to match the role of the state to its capability, in this case a small state
with a normative role in economic development seeking to assure the transparent rule of law, (iii) building
better public sector in the remaining core activities by strengthening service delivery through various
measures including modemized and open financial management, results-oriented policies for organizations
and personnel, and explicit evaluation initiatives; and (iv) sequencing reforms cautiously by targeting key
- 17 -



rector and line agencies, rolling out reforms as capacity increases.
Third, the Chilean authorities, anxious to establish the institutional basis for better competing in the global
economy, recognize that merely changing formal rules, within a culture and incentive structure that does
not value results or performance, is doomed. Therefore the project aims at changing incentives to affect
behavior. The strong focus on accountability mechanisms, human resources management information,
transparency initiatives, and powerful integrated information technology all aim to create a results oriented
administration.
Fourth, building on the lessons learned from the First and Second Public Sector Management Technical
Assistance Project (PSM I and II), the project recognizes that the preparation stage is very important for
successful implementation. The PPF is funding the design and testing of key project features before their
general implementation.
Fifth, the quality of the results of any diagnosis, study or implementation plan prepared by any consultant
depends on the background and quality of the counterpart team. Every effort will be made to ensure a high
quality counterpart team with access to relevant specialists.
Finally, PCU personnel can strongly affect project execution so the unit is being built carefully (including
input from separate Bank assessments on procurement and financial management capacities). Recent
decisions to have the unit report solely to the Budget Directorate will streamline decision-making and help
maintain the focus on the project goals.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has identified institutional strengthening at the national level, coordinated with
municipality efforts, as a key instrument for its development program. The Budget Directorate in the
Ministry of Finance, the Comptroller General Office and the Inter-Ministerial Commission of State
Modernization are fully committed to implement this program. Each one of them have rector
responsibilities and actions plan to guide its implementation. This project has been prepared with the active
involvement of senior public sector officials. A strong counterpart team is being established and has played
an important role in the drafting of preparatory documents, term of references and this Project Appraisal
Document (PAD). Consultants and Bank officials have discussed the components of this program with the
authorities and agreed on the main actions to be financed. The President of Chile has repeatedly indicated
his commitment to the public modernization initiatives.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has developed considerable knowledge on public sector reform issues. Worldwide experience in
the areas of governance, state modernization, rules of law, budget reform, decentralization, civil service
reform, institutional reorganization, deregulation, transparency, etc. are some areas where the Bank has
played a catalytic role. For example, in the area of integrated financial management, the Bank has
participated in several projects in Guatemala, Nicaragua, Bolivia, and Argentina. Bank staff have
experience in researching and analyzing human resource management systems, multi-year and result
oriented budgeting, and medium term expenditure framework in several regions. The -Bank's leading role in
public sector modernization efforts reflect its comparative advantages in: (i) technically sound advice; (ii)
rapid transfer of innovations and lesson learned from similar experiences in the region and elsewhere; (iii)
fast and flexible response to client's needs; and (iv) ability to address cross-cutting issues with projects in
several line ministries, integrated financial management, judicial reform, as well as in its relations with the
IMF.
- 18-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Although as a technical assistance project it is not conducive to standard financial analysis, the
operation is expected to have a positive fiscal impact. Substantial efficiency gains have been
recorded in other governments implementing similar reforms in integrated financial management and
non-quantifiable benefits can be expected in terms of transparency and increased investor and
citizen confidence in government budget projections and fiscal discipline. Improvements in human
resource management should also improve service delivery for given budget levels.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Project costs: Total project costs are estimated at US$33.50 million, of which US$23.23 million would be
financed by the Bank and US$10.27 million would be financed by the Government.
Project Benefits: The project is expected to have a positive fiscal impact over time, but will not generate
measurable direct income or benefits against which costs could be compared. However, it is expected that
the new integrated financial management system will lead to a more efficient, effective and transparent
public sector, with positive effects on the allocation of resources, ethical behavior and commitment to
public service.
3. Technical:
The proposed program is judged technically feasible because: (i) it will replicate similar information
technology based efforts successfully implemented in other countries in the Latin American region
(e.g. integrated financial management system in Argentina, Guatemala, Nicaragua, and Bolivia, the
internet based procurement system in Mexico, etc.); (ii) existing internet technology facilitates the
project objective of having human resources and financial management information on line; (iii) a
high level of technical capacity is available within the Chilean public sector (e.g. the Project
Director is an experienced financial management information technology expert who led a
successful reform of the government's cash management system); and (iv) the project is
contemplating the use of international consultants to assist in key information technology areas.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
With the overall guidance and oversight of the Ministry of Finance, the separate project components would
be executed in several agencies. The Budget Directorate would be responsible for most of the core
financial management sub-systems. The CGO would take the lead in the human resources sub-system.
Pilot agencies would execute the reforms within their organizations with the support and collaboration of
the Project Coordinating Unit.
4.2 Project management:
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) reporting to the Director of Budget will provide daily oversight of the
- 19-



project, playing an active coordinating and oversight role between responsible agencies, the Bank, and
consultants. Project implementation will be helped by the experience being gained by this unit in executing
the PPF. Agreements will be reached on the staffing of the PCU.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of the procurement oversight capacity of the project coordinating unit has been completed
and an action plan agreed with the authorities. Procurement studies were included to respond to CAS
recommendations.
4.4 Financial management issues:
An assessment of the financial management oversight capacity of the project coordinating unit has been
completed and an action plan agreed with the authorities. In light of the adequately functioning (if slow)
financial management practice in Chile revealed during project preparation, a CFAA report is not now
considered necessary.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No significant environmental issues have been identified.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) enviromnental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Improved integrated financial management sub-systems (budgeting, accounting, cash management,
auditing, procurement, fixed asset and inventory and human resources systems) would facilitate the
efficiency and effectiveness of public sector institutions. Such improvement will facilitate the delivery of
services by public sector institutions to respond to social needs. The information will be available to
legislators, academia, independent NGOs and the civil society for social control.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Employees of the rector organizations (Ministry of Finance and Comptroller General's Office) and several
line agencies have participated in project preparation and will do so in implementation. Civil society will
be able to use and comment on the financial and human resource systems outputs and multiple statistical
reports, organized according to a wide range of criteria. A large number of such reports will be made
available via the Web.
- 20 -



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs or other civil society organizations will play key roles in the results evaluation system to be designed
by the project. Through a competitive process, professional, private firms and NGOs will be hired to help
in the results evaluation program.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project will carry out social development initiatives oriented to strengthening public institutions.
Seminars, workshops, surveys and institutional diagnostics are some tools aimed to ensure the project
social and institutional objectives. Users of the system will participate in the impact evaluation.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The integrated financial management and the results evaluation systems will provide updated financial and
physical information on the quality and delivery of public sector services, including social development
outcomes.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Several administrations have supported successful public sector modernization initiatives during the 1980's
and 1990's. The current administration believes that further measures are necessary to help sustain
economic growth and increase the responsiveness of the public sector and its ability to deliver higher
quality services at lower cost. As in other countries, the improvements sought should gamer support from
the public, suppliers of goods and services to the public sector, recipients of government services, investors,
and public employees. Although the reforms will require a well coordinated and interrelated series of legal,
institutional, and procedural reforms, they are not technically difficult and have been successfully
implemented in other countries. Reform irreversibility is difficult to guarantee but up-front commitment is
important and support for state modernization has been clearly expressed by the President of Chile both.
during the electoral campaign and subsequently.
- 21 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Macroeconomic and political instability   N         Chile has followed sound macro-economic
policies for over a decade and the current
administration is maintaining that practice.
Elections are three years in the future for the
presidency.
Lack of government's commitment to        N         Chile has been strongly committed over the
modernization efforts                               years to improve the efficiency of public sector
institutions. The Bank is already working with
the country in the area of decentralization and
municipalities.
Lack of support by key non-public sector  M         Publication of performance evaluations, use of
stakeholders of institutional and                   citizen surveys, social communication
organizational reforms.                             campaigns, focus on reforming high profile
bureaucratic processes should secure public and
investor support for the reforms.
From Components to Outputs
Lack implementation capacity to           M         The Budget Directorate of the Ministry of
coordinate interrelated tasks and supervise         Finance will play a key role to oversee and
project components                                  enforce consistency and coordination. A
qualified project director has been hired. The
PCU staff will work closely in consultation
with the Bank to coordinate frequent project
supervision and support.
Inadequate availability of counterpart    N         Budget allocation for counterpart funds have
funds.                                              been made for 2001 and 2002. Efficiency gains
in restructured agencies could reduce risks
regarding inadequate counterpart funds.
Lack of sustained commitment and vision   M         The project has strong Government support
for reform, or political ability to:                from the President, Minister of Finance, and
* create and sustain a more flexible and            Comptroller General.
merit based civil service
adhere to results of performance
evaluations
* implement integrated financial
management reforms in agencies in timely
manner
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None identified
- 22 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
PCU established and Financial Management Assistant appointed.
Project Operational Manual approved.
Procurement Plan for the first year of the loan implementation approved.
Independent Auditor appointed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
N 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
E 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Li 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Li 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
e-'L  A A/ A,1
Roberto 0. Panzardi ,'            Ernesto May                        Myma L. Alexander
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHILE: Public Expenditure Management Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improved service delivery of  Increased level of     Reports of the Ministry of  Political and economy
the public sector through  non-administrative social  Finance.                 stability.
institutional strengthening,  sector spending as percentage
including at the municipal  of government budget.                              Government capacity for
level.                                                                         setting and maintaining
coherent policies and
institutional capacity.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Increased effectiveness,  Internet based reporting to  Reports by the Ministry of  Political support from the
efficiency, and transparency  public of budget execution  Finance.             national government for the
of public sector financial  disaggregated to the agency                        modernization efforts.
planning, management, and  level available within one
control.                  week of registry by 2005.
Adjustments made to budgets Reports by the Ministry of
beginning in FY2004 based in Finance.
part on strengthened financial
and performance evaluations.
Information available in real
time to policy makers by
2003.
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Outputs:
New integrated financial  TFM system implemented in:  Reports by the Ministry of  Sound macro-economic
management system (IFM)     * 5 pilot agencies by end  Finance and CGO.        framework.
implemented in all Central    2002 (including core
and I)eceniralized            sub-systems of budget                            Strong government
Government agencies.          formulation and                                  commitment to state
execution and                                    modernization program.
accounting).
* 25 agencies by end 2003                           Support for state
(including core                                   modernization effort from
sub-systems plus cash                            non-public sector
management and                                    stakeholders.
-24 -



treasury).
* 171 agencies by end
2005 (all sub-systems).
Reports by the Ministry of
All agencies with IFM system  Finance and CGO.
adhering to commitment
control system after 2003,
leading to identification of
"floating debt".
Reports by the Ministry of
All agencies with IFM system  Finance and CGO.
reporting financial
transactions on line to the
Ministry of Finance no later
than 24 hours after
accounting closing dates.
| New result-oriented budgeting New budget evaluation system Manuals, regulations and IT
in use.                   implemented in all agencies,  methodology developed.
in year 2004.             Implementation reports by
MOF.
Budget results implemented  Manuals, regulations and IT
in at least 20 agencies   methodology developed.
explicitly linked with MOF in Implementation reports by
year 2003.                MOF.
Modern medium term        Improved multi-year financial Methodology and statistics
expenditure framework     scenarios presented to    produced.
system established and    Congress from 2004 onward,
implemented               including alternative     Medium term expenditure
macro-fiscal projections and  reports, including annual
estimations of future budget  presentation to Congress of
costs of policy/program   Macroeconomic Aspects of
options.                  the Proposed Budget.
New human resources       CGO has piloted a new     Reports of CGO and
in fornmation system and  human resources information  agencies.
processes developed,      system in 5 agencies by June,
supporting policies related to  2003.
payment flexibility, personnel
mobility and career       New human resources
development.              information system
established in at least 200
agencies by 2004.
Financial departments of  Agencies successfully     Project implementation
ministries, public agencies  implementing IFM and   reports by MOF.
land regions using new IFMS  human resources systems in
and HR systems.           line with above schedules.  Reports on training of staff in
line agencies.
Random reviews from CGO
- 25 -



reports on agency financial
and human resource
management.
Project Components        I Ilnputs: (budget for each  Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Strong project implementation
Financial Management     I US$9.02 million          Semi-annual project reports  capacity.
Modernization             l
Availability of counterpart
* Improve legal framework|                                                   funds.
* Design IFM system
* Implement IFM in pilot                                                     Political commitment to
institutions                                                               project.
* Rector umit capacity
building
*I
Budget Reform to Create a  US$1.55 million          'Plus Budget Office reports
Medium Term Expenditure
Framework
Financial Planning
* Create legal framework
* Design multi-year and
result oriented system
* Rector unit capacity
building
Budgeting by results
* Create legal framework
* Design public investment
system
* Rector umit capacity
building
Human Resources           US$1.93 million           Plus CGO reports
Management Information
System
* Design human resources
management information
system
* Build HR system capacitv |
to create policies that
include sector strategic
goals, agency results. and
- 26 -



perlomiaiiee of public
, employees
I raining
Strengthening Financial and US$10.40 million          Plus agencies reports, surveys
Human Resource
Management Units
* Initiate iFMS and human
resources mianagement
infoitmation systems in
the financial departments
of ministries, public
agencies and regions,
).J1di!1dr (i) settingup
change management
units; (ii) organizational
diagnoses. (iii)
implermentation of IFM
systemLs; (iv)
implemenitation of
medium term planning
i ramnework and budgeting
by results; (v) financing
of HR Management
systemr (vi) evaluation of
institutional performance.
Reform Mlanagement         US$0. 10 million           Plus report PCU
* pir, i. Coordinating UInit
* lvaluation of results.
- 27 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHILE: Public Expenditure Management Project
C'hile successfully completed the first generation of political economy reforms during the 1980's and
:-)90's. Privatization, deregulation, trade liberalization, and sound fiscal and monetary policies
were pursued by several Administrations. Public finances improved through tight controls on
spending and extensive reforms in revenue policy and administration, and as a result Chile has
recorded overall budget surpluses in 9 of the last 10 years. Public employment was kept small
relative tc the size of government and international comparisons. Significant innovations were
idvanced in the areas of health and education service delivery, pensions and social security, and
i-Government (including e-procurement). Building on the base of fiscal discipline, considerable
talent in both the public and private sectors, and careful reform design and implementation, the
Country ranks positively in international surveys of business competitiveness and corruption.
Chile, nevertheless, faces pressures of competition (especially given its location far from major
markets), increasing citizen demands for improved services, and vulnerability to extemal shocks.
The administration of President Ricardo Lagos Escobar is therefore seeking to deepen public sector
modernization in order to squeeze out further improvements in efficiency and effectiveness, enhance
transparency and access to information, as well as promote a culture of service and public
participation. New or intensified second generation reforms in decentralization, out-sourcing,
strengthening the professionalism of the civil service, results focus and citizen feedback are being
pursued. State modemization would also support the Government's fiscal goal of achieving a
structural and sustainable budget surplus equivalent to I percent of GDP from 2002 onwards.
A pillar of Chile's state reform program will be accelerated modernization of public expenditure
management. It is important to note that Chile's budget processes have been successful in
producing fiscal surpluses supporting macroeconomic stabilization. The system is markedly
'hierarchical" --the Ministry of Finance takes precedence over the sectorial ministries and agencies
. n the formulation of the budget, and the executive branch rather than the legislature has the last
wvord in the approval process. The Congress can only reduce proposed spending and cannot adjust
revenue projections or reallocated funds among programs. The budget is detailed (more than 4,000
items plus approximately 1,000 special clauses), comprehensive (covering the bulk of the public
sector), and strict deadlines are mandated by law and observed in practice. A degree of flexibility
-xists in execution, given Chile's long reliance on decentralized "national services" (autonomous
-tencies under the coordination and normative direction of ministries). Cash funds are transferred
hv the Finance Ministry on a monthly basis to these entities based on a cash allocation schedule
*'rawn up at the beginning of the year.
i)espite its successes, by the first half of the 1990's the system was seen as undermining the
allocative and efficiency goals of modem budgeting. The system retained a focus on controlling
expenditures of liquid resources (not promoting efficient and effective use of those resources,
assessing the results of spending, or fully accounting for the economic costs incurred). As a result
line agencies were weak in financial and human resource management and not acting as full
partners in the planning and execution of their operations. They, plus legislators, sectorial
ministries, and other stakeholders began pushing for an increased role in budget decision making
and execution. The government therefore initiated a series of reform measures including the
development of performance indicators, results evaluations, and performance based pay schemes.
Based on these pilot efforts, and a concem that a more coherent and aggressive commitment to
- 28 -



modernization was required, the authorities have now designed a comprehensive program designed
to improve the trade-off between tight fiscal control and effective program execution. It involves a
three-track approach very much in line with intemational trends in budget reform:
*   provision of increased flexibility by spending agencies in their access to budget funds and the
uses to which funds can be put;
*   provision of greater predictability in the operating environment of spending agencies,
particularly in regard to availability of funds; and
*   increased pressure on agencies to pursue improvements in program results.
Each of the tracks is essential as the provision of more flexibility and predictability without
accountability for results could lead to reduced fiscal control without improvements in efficiency
and effectiveness. It is anticipated that line agencies will support the reforms in order to secure
greater control over their operations while the central agencies (Ministry of Finance and
Comptroller General's Office) would improve expenditure control through an expanded ability to
identify and more easily withdraw funds from unproductive activities. Moreover, the focus on
results and involvement of stakeholders (line agencies and Congress) through the formulation and
discussion of multi-annual financial plans could promote transparency and more "collegiate" (rather
than hierarchical) participatory decision-making.
The proposed project addresses the key challenges in public expenditure management in a
comprehensive manner. Specifically it would: (i) establish a modem integrated financial
management system in the central government and public agencies as a basis for information and
streamlined business processes, permitting more operational decentralization with normative
centralization; (ii) promote budget reform through a medium term expenditure framework involving
multi-annual financial planning and deepened focus on results oriented budgeting; (iii) upgrade civil
service management information systems and their linkage with performance evaluations and
agency budget results; and (iv) strengthen the institutional capacity of line agencies in the areas of
financial and human resource management. The project would finance technical assistance, goods
and equipment including information technology (hardware, software, and telecommunications
equipment), and training. The project will be implemented in stages, seeking to identify and use
lessons learned internally and from international experience, while maintaining fiscal control.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$11.85 million
Financial Management Modernization
Chile does not have a fully modern integrated financial management system (policies, procedures,
and information technology). The Government as a whole has some 117 different financial
management information "systems", with 16 entities with semi-manual systems. The systems
themselves are rigid (financial transactions must be reported to agency headquarters to be entered
into the system, rather than having a single entry at the source of the operation), inadequately
integrated and interconnected (internally, much less with the Ministry of Finance and CGO), and
lack of real time information or sufficient performance monitoring data. Consequently there can be
delays of up to 7 weeks or more in reporting financial transactions to the Finance Ministry,
information is provided in different formats inhibiting financial and economic analysis, transaction
and maintenance costs are high given the various software and hardware systems and need for
multiple data entry, there is inadequate control over the budget commitment process, the diffusion of
government bank accounts is costly to administer and undermines cash and debt management, the
- 29 -



systems are not linked to other information systems in public investment, debt, procurement, and
human resources, and the existing cash control systems lack flexibility and responsiveness. The
authorities are particularly concerned about the lack of appropriate controls and information on
agencies' commitments (a "floating debt" that can represent a major blind spot in fiscal
management). Moreover, there are rigidities and outdated policies and procedures in key
sub-systems of budget formulation and execution, accounting, cash management, etc.
Financial Management Information System (FMIS)
Under the PPF, the project developed a conceptual module and a basic operational prototype to test
the main functionality of the final system, engage end-users in the process and thereby validate its
design before launching full development efforts. The project has also supported under the PPF the
development of a budget formulation sub-system on the web as a tool to help institutions in
formulating the FY 2002 budget. This has been a substantial success as all but one ministry used
this tool.
This sub-component would support the design, testing, and installation of a modem integrated
financial management system (SIGFE) through consulting services, institutional capacity building
of financial management units, training of staff, and information technology investments. The core
of the component would be the development of a unified information management system with the
following characteristics: (i) modular design and integration into a single homogeneous system for
the entire public sector, in accordance with the established budgetary and accounting standards, and
the needs and management characteristics of the institutions; (ii) validation of transactions and
instantaneous recording of data where and as the operations take place, avoiding the re-entry of
data; (iii) extensive use of advanced means of data-communications (in particular, the government
Intranet, which will support on-line processing of transactions), as required by each of the project's
components and institutions, with adequate security levels and audit trails; (iv) availability of
special modules to aid in the analysis of alternative scenarios to help in decision-making during
financial planning, budget formulation, and budget execution; (v) early identification of overlaps
and potential areas of coordination among entities conducting independent activities with similar
goals, and better targeting of beneficiaries through "virtual" institutions or services (multi-sectorial
and/or multi-institutional programs); (vi) maximum transparency, through provision of information
over the Internet, so that every citizen and authorized personnel, based on access levels, may
navigate among the various public services, identifying programs, projects, products, inputs,
performance levels, goals, and objectives of institutional budgets at the national, regional and
sectorial levels; (vii) continuous evolution and improvement of the system, through, among others,
the establishment of authorization levels and relations among users, implementation of security
systems, the establishment of links to others sub-systems (such as procurement, public credit, fixed
assets and inventory management, public investments and human resources) and development of
additional functionality to respond to new information requirements or to support new means or
forms of access to the information.
The overall development strategy is based on the now standard three-tier information systems
model, brought about by the revolution caused by the Internet and Internet-related technologies, by
which users will access the system through Web-like interfaces. The development and
implementation technology is standard and well-proven.
Given the tradition of different institutions using diverse database management systems, and the
reluctance of some of them to move towards a centralized database system, the applications
- 30 -



developed will support multiple database management systems from different vendors, and a
"virtual" central database system will be created with standards-based exchange of information
(such as through XML). The system will be adjusted to individual agency needs, but will have the
ability to produce consistent information at three major levels of aggregation: central, sectorial or
ministerial, and institutional.
The project will deploy modules as they become available in a pilot group of five institutions first,
beginning with the budgeting and accounting modules in early 2002. Other main modules, on
treasury and financial planning, among others, will be developed through mid- 2002. The final
version will also include auxiliary modules on mid-term programming and information reporting,
among others, which will be available by early 2003. After the first version has been tested in the
five pilot institutions, the system will be expanded to twenty more institutions during 2003 and to
the rest of the public sector during 2004-2005.
Related Sub-System Reforms
The IT systems will be developed simultaneously and in close collaboration with reforms in policies
and norms and business process reengineering in accounting and cash management in order to
maximize gains in efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency. In accounting the project will
support: (i) review and updating of the accrual based public accounting system including the
national Chart of Accounts to ensure its compliance with generally accepted international standards;
(ii) improved recording of budget commitments, execution, and contingent liabilities; (iii) more
explicit identification of cost centers, by program, project, and/or public services to facilitate results
evaluation; (iv) development of financial performance indices and coefficients to better estimate and
monitor general expenditures (overheads); (v) improved accounting for state assets (property and
real estate) laying the basis for applying capital charges to agencies for use of those assets. In cash
management, the project will support (i) improved policies and procedures for cash planning
(involving improved reporting on budget commitments and analysis of past cash flow); (ii)
simplification and standardization of payment processes; (iii) faster and more automatic
reconciliation of bank accounts (comparing balances reported by banks with T reasury's
information); (iv) strengthened guidelines and procedures for short term investments, debt, and
seasonal cash surpluses in order to increase returns on government funds; and (v) improved
reporting to senior officials to facilitate timely decision-making. To complement the major progress
being achieved in government procurement reform, the project will finance: (i) a compilation and
review of the existing public procurement regulations (which vary among agencies) and
comparative analysis with international best practices; and (ii) on the basis of that review,
preparation of draft regulations to the new procurement law now before the Congress, if and when
enacted.
Project Component 2 - US$1.91 million
Budget Reform to Create a Medium Term Expenditure Framework
A primary goal of financial management and budgeting reforms is to create a rnore predictable and
performance based system for allocating public resources. This means moving from a detailed
focus on incremental annual changes in budget line items and internal government negotiations over
relatively minor adjustments in current programs and overall agency spending ceilings to a more
comprehensive understanding and review by all stakeholders of national priorities and government
spending trade-offs in the medium term. Chile has already undertaken several initiatives in this
regard. As for predictability, since 1975 the country has had a multi-annual capital budget and
- 31 -



during the 1990's the Budget Department in the Finance Ministry (DIPRES) began preparing rolling
financial plans covering agencies for two years into the future. However, because of concerns such
plans would be seen as commitments rather than indications of possible spending, they were not
prepared or shared with line agencies. Consequently, the Finance Ministry makes projections
without necessarily having adequate substantive input, and line agencies do not have an appropriate
level of responsibility over their own strategic planning and budget formulation. Consequently they
prepare longer term sectorial strategies with limited capacity for, or attention to, budget
considerations. The Government recognizes, given its desire to expand capital spending to improve
the social and physical infrastructure of the country, and the need to provide greater budget
certainty to agencies which will be held more accountable for results, that the multi-annual financial
planning process must be significantly strengthened.
Chile has also initiated several programs to increase the focus on public sector performance and
budget results. During 1994-1998 and again in 2001 more than 275 performance indicators and
institutional goals were developed by 72 public services and included in the budget document. In
1997, an Evaluation Program of Governmental Projects (PEPG) with the National Evaluation
Program was introduced through which 20 programs are reviewed annually jointly by the Ministry
of Finance and the public institution involved with the aim to establish corrective actions as
appropriate. In 1998, Congress passed legislation requiring all national and regional public
agencies to implement "Management Improvement Programs" which incorporated tools such as
strategic planning, ministerial goals and modernization commitments with related programs for
bonuses and incentives. Beginning with the 2001 budget, a Central Resources for Governmental
Priorities Fund (Fondo Central de Recursos para Prioridades Gubernamentales) was established
to vet the selection of new programs, or reformulation and substantive amendment to existing
programs. However the focus of many agencies remains on inputs rather than outputs, budget
formulations reflect inertia rather than strategic thinking, and evaluations of results or identification
of performance criteria respond to external pressures rather than internal commitment. The reform
effort needs to be strengthened and made more consistent to ensure greater linkage between
performance and budget allocations. The modernized FMIS will increase transparency and the
availability of information to analyze budget results, and this should be complemented by incentives
to reward or punish performance and measures to strengthen agency commitment and ability to
improve results.
Multi-Annual Financial Planning
A multi-annual budgeting sub-component would support strengthening the government's capacity to
focus on macroeconomic, fiscal, and public investment policies, linked to resource allocation
decision-making and the budget in a forward looking multi-annual context. Using improved
information on budget execution and results performance, the aim is to increase the focus on
strategic considerations for longer term budget formulation, strengthen the efficiency and
accountability of sector spending within hard budget constraints, and reduce the gaps between
policy making, planning, and budgeting. A capacity would be developed to create realistic rolling
expenditure plans that integrate current information on fiscal projections, sector priorities, recurrent
spending implications of investment programs, and evolving national priorities. Key tasks include:
(i) developing financial planning methodologies (policies and procedures) to incorporate consistent
and realistic projections of out-year resource inflows and recurrent and capital expenditure options;
(ii) strengthening of management systems to promote adequate analyses and studies of budget
allocations, financial projections and medium-term policies and improving mechanisms for
decision-making within the Executive branch and providing information to the Legislative branch;
- 32 -



(iii) training of DIPRES and public agencies personnel on the use of medium-term financial
planning methodologies and techniques; and (iv) strengthening the institutional capacity of a unit
responsible, within DIPRES, for the formulation of the medium term financial planning and
projections. The authorities intend that this effort strengthen institutional capacities in the line
agencies and Ministry of Finance, with the latter significantly deepening the analysis of alternative
macro-fiscal scenarios and cost estimates of policy/program options presented to the Congress as
part of the annual budget debate. This effort would lay the basis, should the government so decide,
to publish multi-annual plans.
Budgeting by Results
A budgeting by results sub-component will support the Budget Directorate (DIPRES) in the development
of methodologies that strengthen the implementation of the existing programs for result-oriented budgeting:
Performance Indicators, Evaluation of Governmental Programs, Comprehensive Evaluations, and
Governmental Priorities Fund. Key tasks would include: (i) technical assistance for key aspects of public
program evaluation, focusing especially in methodologies of impact (outcomes) evaluation. It would cover
methodologies and techniques for specific sectors (education, training, environment, health, etc.) as well as
approaches generally relevant to all sectors. The beneficiaries of this technical assistance will be
professionals responsible for program evaluation at various ministries and agencies, and in DIPRES; (ii)
developing and improving methodologies to evaluate the impact (outcomes) of targeted strategic public
programs. This task will imply the generation of a control group for the evaluation, and the development,
improvement and implementation of management systems (including the generation of required data) for
evaluations and appropriate analysis of funding alternatives in DIPRES; (iii) knowledge dissemination of
the different programs developed for result-oriented budgeting, allowing the consolidation of these
programs and the creation of an evaluation culture. This task includes carrying out of workshops and
seminars for professionals responsible of the different result-oriented budgeting programs (performance
indicators, evaluation of governmental programs, etc.) at various agencies and ministries and the
publication of documents; and (iv) in conjunction with the above efforts, review of international experience
with result-oriented budgeting to identify those practices applicable to Chile.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.42 million
Human Resources Management Information System
The record of human resource management in the Chilean public sector is mixed. The civil service,
in comparison to many other countries, is perceived as honest and relatively efficient. Although its
morale has suffered from significant downsizings, fluctuating compensation, and public denigration
by several administrations, the overall quality of performance appears to be rated well by citizens
and external investors. Nevertheless, serious challenges remain if the civil service is to attract,
motivate, and retain high quality staff capable of improving services to citizens. Separate job and
grading classifications among public institutions hamper mobility (an employee must resign from
the civil service before being appointed to another agency) and undermine optimal distribution of
staff and skills within the public sector. The government does not have a modem and reliable
human resources information system with up-to-date position descriptions, personnel database, and
establishment registers. The Comptroller General Office (CGO) is responsible for administering a
semi-manual based record keeping system and also approving the hiring, promotion, and firing of
all staff within the central, regional, and municipal governments. Although Civil Service
legislation was approved in 1989, its regulations have not been adequate to appropriately improve
the operation of the civil service system in terms of job evaluation, training, firing, pay flexibility,
promotion and rotation of staff to better serve the public, and in general creating a merit based
- 33 -



system linked to sector goals, agency results, and/or individual performance. Finally, Chile has to
improve the oversight and coordination of human resources management at the policy level and in
line agencies.
The Government has identified human resources reform as a key element in its State Modernization
Program. The Sub-Directorate for the Rationalization of the Public Administration within the
Ministry of Finance has launched a reform program which main objective is to enter into a "new
labor relationship" between the State and the public sector employees. The initiative is intended to:
(i) elevate the image of civil servants; (ii) strengthen the autonomy of public institutions in the
management of their functions; (iii) promote performance/merit based career streams; and (iv)
encourage flexibility and institutional strengthening human resource management. The Government
is also reviewing the possible establishment of a new Civil Service Office, drafting a new civil
service law to refine the existing legal framework, and undertaking a broader reform of human
resource management. Whatever the results of these reviews, the authorities believe that a
fundamental building block will be creation of a modem human resources information system linked
to the financial management system that would update position descriptions, and create an
electronic database on personnel and positions. This would permit the govenmment to better map
and utilize its human resources, reduce duplication and transaction costs from divergent systems,
and benefit staff.
Under the PPF, the project has financed an initial design of a new human resources management
and control information system, under joint leadership by the Comptroller General's Office and
DIPRES. This initial design has led to a simple Web-based prototype, which has allowed users to
validate the functionality expected from the final system.
This component would fund the final design of the system which would support sector strategic
goals, agency results, and performance evaluation of public employees. The project would finance:
(i) design and installation of an electronic human resources management and control information
system covering position descriptions, personnel registries, and personnel histories covering all
public employees. Inter-agency connectivity and linkage to the financial management information
system will improve decision making processes relating to budget formulation, resource allocation,
policies on selection, training, evaluation, and incentives of staff linked to sectorial strategic goals
and performance evaluations; (ii) installation of the information system in line and rector agencies;
and (iii) transfer of the human resource information existing in the Comptroller General's Office
into this new human resources system.
Project Component 4 - US$13.06 million
Strengthening Financial and Human Resource Management Units
Chile has significantly deconcentrated/decentralized public sector operations. Autonomous agencies
"national services" handle the bulk of government operations and service delivery. This structure
was chosen in order to improve responsiveness and bring decision making closer to the client. As
indicated above, however, deficiencies in management systems, policies, and procedures are leading
to reduced efficiency, effectiveness and transparency. The heterogeneity of management
information systems and lack of inter-connectivity within the agencies and with other central
government units reduces the Government's overall responsiveness and agility, undermines
transparency, fosters change resistance, and creates disincentives for public employees across
agencies. The poor quality of many of these systems undermines the agencies' own financial and
- 34 -



human resource management, inhibits strategic planning and proper budget execution, and hampers
efforts to focus on results. Some agencies are not responsible for budget execution nor able to
perform basic financial transactions. These deficiencies remain despite pilotin,g of organization
focused reforms over the last decade designed to modernize entities. These efforts include: (i) the
promotion of planning and evaluation culture through the implementation of the so called
"ministerial goals" whereby ministries, services, and regional governments identified their main
annual goals; (ii) during 1994-1997, some 128 public agencies subscribed to "'modernization
commitments" covering areas of information technology, decentralization, delegation of
responsibilities to lower management and the use of performance indicators. Plublic agencies were
offered bonuses for engaging in modernization (6% of the funds allocated for wages in the
institutional budgets) and institutional performance bonuses (up to a 3% increase of the funds
allocated for wages) for results achieved; and (iii) in 1998, Congress passed legislation requiring all
national and regional public agencies to implement "Management Improvement Programs" which
incorporate tools such as strategic planning, ministerial goals and modernization commitments with
familiar programs for bonuses and incentives.
Chile has decided to intensify, and make more coherent, the state modernization reform effort in line
agencies, paying particular attention to organizational restructuring and strengthening critical
systems within both rector and agencies. The aim is to create results oriented organizations with the
tools (trained staff, equipment, regulatory framework, and culture) to achieve the goals. The project
will support this strengthening in a phased process targeted first on rector agencies (Ministry of
Finance, Comptroller General's Office) and a few pilot agencies, and then rolled out more broadly
to all central government entities. While the entire modernization process will involve several
related initiatives, the project will concentrate on the public expenditure management (plus human
resource management information system) components of the agency reform effort. This
component will seek to strengthen institutional capacity of the Budget Directorate in Ministry of
Finance, Office of the Comptroller General, and financial/human resources management units in
line agencies in order to successfully implement the other project components (FMIS, budget
reform, and human resources management information). The component would fund: (i)
organizational diagnoses in the agencies, especially related to budget and finance; (ii) implantation
of the new systems including limited investments in computer technology and equipment, training,
and certification of institutional capacity, with reengineering of financial processes as required; (iii)
regulatory adjustments as necessary; (iv) monitoring and evaluation of reform implementation; and
(v) a dissemination campaign (including seminars, workshop, surveys, media) to inform the public,
civil servants and the civil society on the financial management modernization program. Its
implementation would be phased, targeted first on rector agencies (Ministry of Finance,
Comptroller General's Office) and a few pilot agencies (Metropolitan Housing Service, Health
Sub-Secretariat and Telecommunication Sub-Secretariat), and then rolled out more broadly to all
central government entities. The Government would then phase implementation by selecting
agencies, through a matrix process, giving primary emphasis to the following selection criteria:
geographic presence, complexity of their operation and services provided, functional diversity,
leadership and commitment to reform, and percentage to the public expenditure budget. Protocols
delineating the roles of the rector institutions, agencies, and project would be signed to guide the
process of implementation. Incentives to the line agencies include access to training, upgraded
equipment, improved management of financial and human resources, and better planning and
evaluation capabilities.
- 35 -



Project Component 5 - US$4.03 million
Reform Management
This component will finance the costs of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) within the
Directorate of Budget in the Ministry of Finance. It will finance activities, goods and services
including international consultants and local staff, support personnel, operating costs, and
equipment for the unit. The PCU would be responsible for the supervision of the project,
contracting of and monitoring of consultants, oversight of project finances and technical outputs,
preparation of reports to the government and the Bank, and contracting auditing of the project.
Project audits will be financed by the loan proceeds.
- 36 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHILE: Public Expenditure Management Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million   US $million   US $million
Financial Management Modernization                          9.77          1.00         10.77
Budget Reform to Create a Medium Term Expenditure           1.44          0.30          1.74
Framework
Human Resources Management Information System               1.30          0.90          2.20
Strengthening Financial and Human Resource Management       5.12          6.75         11.87
Units
Reform Management                                           3.66          0.00          3.66
Total Baseline Cost                                        21.29          8.95         30.24
Physical Contingencies                                     1.44          0.60          2.04
Price Contingencies                                        0.69          0.30          0.99
Total Project Costsl              23.42          9.85         33.27
Front-end fee                     0.23          0.23
Total Financing Required               23.42         10.08         33.50
Identifiable taxes and duties are 2 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 31.5 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 73.75% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 37 -



Annex 4
CHILE: Public Expenditure Management Project
The benefits expected from the proposed Public Expenditure Management Reform TAL are intangible in
nature and therefore difficult to quantify for a cost-benefit assessment, including an accurate estimate of
rates of return. However, these benefits are real and the project is expected to have considerable benefits
by improvements in efficiently and effectiveness, enhance transparency and access of information, as well
as promote a culture of service and public participation.
The projects components are expected to:
Implement a modem and integrated government's financial management system. The proposed
project will support the implementation of a new financial management system by updating policies,
procedures, forms, and the legal framework and integrated them through more uniform policies,
procedures, information technology, training, and coordinated oversight responsibilities. It would include
budget formulation and execution, accounting, treasury and cash management and human resources
management. The project would seek to implant this system in all ministries and central government public
agencies. All of these would bring accountability to the government, savings to the public and efficiency in
the use of public funds allowing better allocation of resources and improvement in the budget decision
making and execution processes.
*      Improve government's capacity to assign and evaluate budget allocation based on result-oriented
practices. The Finance Ministry and line agencies will work together to formulate, execute, and evaluate
results oriented budgets. The integrated financial management system tool would be built to prepare
physical and financial indicators. The project would support the development and piloting of indicators
system, training in results evaluation, and support for a small rector unit and reporting/evaluation system.
*      Strengthen medium term expenditure techniques. By developing budget policies and procedures to
incorporate consistent and realistic projections of out-year resource inflows and expenditure options,
strengthening systems to promote appropriate analysis of funding alternatives, improving mechanisms for
decision-making within both the Executive and Legislative branches and strengthening the institutional
capacity of a unit responsible, within the Ministry of Finance, for the formulation of the medium term
projections, the project will strengthening the government's capacity to focus on macroeconomic, fiscal, and
public investment policies, linked to resource allocation decision-making and the budget in a forward
looking multi-year context. The government would be able to increase strategic considerations for longer
term budget formulation, strengthen the efficiency and accountability of sector spending within hard budget
constraints, and reduce the gaps between policy making, planning, and budgeting. Additionally, it would
promote budget transparency and predictability and focus policy debates onto key issues, and inform that
debate with a more realistic data.
*      Strengthen the human resources management information system. A new human resources
management information system would lead to a more transparent, efficient and effective administration of
human resources by allowing the creation of an electronic database on personnel. By compiling such
information in electronic form, the Comptroller General's Office will have a better understanding of the
human assets available and subsequently update personnel management policies. Line agencies will be able
to hiring, promote and reallocate personnel more efficiently and in less time.
- 38 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHILE: Public Expenditure Management Project
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
|Year 1  | Year 2   |Year 3   |   ear      Year 5  | Year 6  |Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           7.3        7.0       7.0        1.7       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            3.8        2.5        2.6       1.4       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         11.1        9.5       9.6        3.1       0.0       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.2       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             11.3        9.5       9.6        3.1       0.0        0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  7.3        7.0        7.0       1.7        0.0      0.0        0.0
Government                3.8        2.5        2.6       1.4        0.0      0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Others                    0.2        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    11.3        9.5       9.6        3.1       0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
The Bank will accept as counterpart funding the govemment's contribution incurred for project preparation
from January 1, 2001 until the loan signing date.
- 39 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHILE: Public Expenditure Management Project
Procurement
All procurement of goods and works under the Project would be carried out in accordance with the
"Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995 (revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consultants would be employed in
accordance with the Guidelines, Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January and September 1999), and the
provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The following paragraphs provide information on the methods for procurement of goods, hiring of
consultant services and training. The Project is not envisaged to finance Civil works. The procurement
methods are summarized in Tables A, Al and B. The project implementation will be carried out on the
basis of semi-annual implementation and procurement plans, which in turn will be the basis for definition
of appropriate procurement methods.
Goods
The Project would finance contracts for the purchase of information systems hardware, software,
telecommunication and networking products, with an estimated aggregated value of US$10.9 million.
Contracts for packages estimated to exceed US$350,000 and with an aggregate value of US$7.0 million
will be awarded on the basis of ICB procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$350,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate value of US$2.9 million, may be procured under NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent for
miscellaneous equipment and training, and amounting in the aggregate to US$1.0 million, may be procured
following shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines (please see
Table A).
Consultant Services and Training
Consulting services consisting of, among others, management of the PCU, technical assistance, system
engineering and upgrading, software application development, training and workshops totalling
approximately $10.8 million constitute the main thrust of the project.
Firms: Consulting services for studies, training and audits, estimated $5.10 million in aggregate shall be
contracted with firms. Studies and training will be contracted following QCBS procedures; audits will be
contracted following LCS procedures.
Individuals: Consulting services which do not require team work, may be contracted with individuals in
accordance with Chapter V of the Consultant Guidelines. An estimate of $9 million has been assigned for
services to be contracted through individual consultants. Specifically, approximately $3 million has been
allocated for the conceptual development of the system. Another $2 million has been allocated for the
contracting of the construction of the basic module, and about $700,000 for training of the pilot
institutions. The Borrower's procurement plan, will be updated semi-annually and submitted to the Bank
for review and approval. Technical or managerial consulting assignments with individuals should be
-40 -



announced inviting local expression of interest and awarded on the basis of the overall duration of the
assignment, but contracts may be signed for shorter periods for flexibility. The procedures for selection of
individual consultants will be spelled out in the project operational manual.
Procurement Capacity Assessment.
A procurement assessment of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was conducted. The unit was assessed
as average. The PCU is an organization within the Budget Directorate of the Ministry of Finance; it will
execute the proposed project. The PCU is headed by a Project General Coordinator who will be assisted
by three technical groups and by the Project Administrative and Financial Coordinating Unit (PAFCU).
PAFCU is headed by a Coordinator who administratively reports to the Under-Secretary of Finance. The
Coordinator is a Civil Engineer and holds a Master Degree in Economics. All of the PAFCU members
have experience in either Bank or IDB projects. PAFCU will be in charge of procurement until an
acceptable Procurement Expert is appointed to the Administrative Group, and will continue to provide
further supervision, coaching and support to the Administrative Group during a six month period after the
appointment of such expert.
The action plan agreed with the Borrower to strengthen its procurement management capacity by loan
negotiations or effectiveness, is as indicated below:
* A preliminary procurement plan covering the duration of the project has been prepared and will be
submitted to the Bank for approval. (Timing: Negotiations)
*   Special Procurement Provisions identified in paragraph 3, "Legal Aspects", of the Procurement
Capacity Assessment Report will be agreed and included in the Loan Agreement. (Timing:
Negotiations)
* Defining an inter-institutional arrangement that will describe the respective roles and responsibilities of
the PCU and other executing entities. These will be indicated in the Operations Manual (referred to
below).
* Adopting a project operational manual (OM) with a detailed description of procurement and financial
management responsibilities and processes, including: (a) shopping procedures that would be based on
procedures as agreed with the borrower and outlined in "Special Procurement Provisions" below, (b)
standard documents for requesting quotations under shopping, and (c) procedures for filing and
handling correspondence as agreed with the borrower. The OM should also specify (a) that the project
procurement plan should be updated and reviewed by the Bank every six months, (b) that the Borrower
should get the Bank's concurrence before undertaking any procurement process not included in the
approved procurement plan, and that (c) the submission of Procurement Plans will include information
on procurement actions as agreed with the borrower and disclosed in Appendix 3, of the Procurement
Capacity Assessment.
The action plan agreed, also includes:
* Preparing standard bidding documents for National Competitive Bidding and shopping acceptable to
the Bank.
* Organizing reliable and secure files and a control and checking systems for the files.
Special Procurement Provisions
The Procurement Capacity Assessment revealed that there are no detailed regulations on
procurement methods applicable to the Ministry of Finance and that some practices are not
consistent with Bank policies. It was also found that the mandates of the recently enacted "Law on
-41 -



Administrative Probity applicable to the State Administration Agencies" could permit abuse of
public competition and disclosure of information to the public. Therefore, the Loan Agreement
includes Special Conditions based on the following:
1. Selection of consultants shall be on the basis of short-list not subject to open competition.
2. The evaluation process and the related documents shall be kept confidential until the contract
becomes binding.
3. Contracts arising from shopping/three quotations procedures may be awarded provided that at
least three acceptable quotations are compared. To ensure that enough number of acceptable
quotations are compared, the Borrower shall request quotations to an ample number of
suppliers/contractors.
4. Electronically submitted quotations and any other way of e-procurement may be accepted only
for procedures defined as "shopping" in the Loan Agreement.
5. Universities may provide services under the Project.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB          Other"       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                            7.00           2.92          1.00         0.00       10.92
(6.03)          (2.37)       (0.50)        (0.00)     (8.90)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          17.35        0.00       17.35
Training and Audit                 (0.00)         (0.00)        (14.10)      (0.00)      (14.10)
4. Operating Costs                  0.00           0.00                       5.00        5.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         0          (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                   0.00            0.00          0.00         0.23        0.23
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.23)     (0.23)
Total                            7.00           2.92          18.35        5.23        33.50
(6.03)          (2.37)       (14.60)       (0.23)     (23.23)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
-42 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              8.00    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00     8.35
(6.50)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.30)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (6.80)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00     9.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (7.30)  (0.00)   (7.30)
Total  8.00    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00    9.00    0.00     17.35
(6.50) - (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.30)  (0.00)  (7.30)  (0.00)  (14.10)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 43 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review thresholds, identified in Table B below, for the applicable procurement methods are identified
in Table B. All ICB contracts require the Bank's prior review; the first contract less than $350,000 for
every year, procured through NCB procedures, will require the Bank's prior review, and the first contract
for every year shopping procedures will require the Bank's prior review. Approximately US$16.6 million
of the procured goods and services (80% of loan amount) will require the Bank's prior review. Terms of
references for critical tasks, irrespective of the amount of the contract, will require the Bank's prior review
and approval. The critical tasks will be identified in the POA and will be reviewed annually.
Any assignments of a critical nature, and amendments raising contract values above the said thresholds
would be subject to prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method                US$ Millions
1. Works                        N/A                      N/A                     N/A
N/A
2. Goods                        > 350                    ICB                All ($7.0 million)
<350                    NCB              First contract for every
year ($1.2 million)
First contract for every
<100                   Shopping        _  year ($ 0.5 million)
3. ServicesConsultants*
Firms                            All                    QCBS              > 150 ($ 3.4 million)
Audits             Least Cost Selection        All > 150
($ 0.5 million)
Individuals
All              Chapter V Guidelines     > 50 ($ 4.0 million)
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $16.6 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 44 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The PPF was executed by the Sub-secretary of the Ministry of Finance (SMF) from December 7, 2000
until December 31, 2001. SMF has established arrangements for the transfer of records and
documentation to DIPRES to account for all project proceeds. DIPRES has established an acceptable
accounting system which will begin operations January 1, 2002.
The DIPRES established a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) that will begin managing project funds
beginning January 1, 2002 until the project closing date. A World Bank mission reviewed the structure
of the PCU, including qualifications of personnel, and found the PCU met Bank standards for project
implementation.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Goods                                      7.70                         80%
Consultants' services, Training & Audit    11.30                        80%
Unallocated                                2.00
PPF                                        2.00                         100%
Total Project Costs                        23.00
Front-end fee         0.23
Total                                      23.23
Mechanisms
The Bank and the Ministry of Finance have agreed that the transaction-based (traditional) disbursement
methods will be used. All consolidated documentation for those expenditures using SOE will be maintained
by the PCU for post-review by Bank staff and audit purposes. Transition to Report-based (FMRs)
disbursement method would be subject to government request and satisfactory results of new financial
management and procurement assessments. The Bank has agreed to recognize as counterpart funds the
expenditures incurred by the borrower since January 1, 2001.
Flow of Funds
The Budget Directorate in the Finance Ministry (DIPRES) is the executing agency of the Project and
responsible for managing the loan proceeds. Such funds will be first deposited in a special account in the
Central Bank maintained by the Treasury. The SMF will authorize transfers from this account to a
subsidiary SMF account in a commercial bank upon receipt of the monthly schedule of expense report from
the Budget Directorate in the Finance Ministry (DIPRES). Subsequently, SMF will transfer the funds to
the project account to be opened in the same bank by the Budget Directorate to be used for payment of
good and services rendered in the execution of the Project according to the monthly schedule of expenses.
Transfers of loan proceeds to DIPRES from SMF shall be made within the 72 hour period after receipt by
SMF of the monthly schedule of expenses.
Project Monitoring Report (PMRs)
The results of the financial management assessment indicates that the PCU will implement an Integrated
-45-



Project Monitoring System, with accounting and financial information, disbursements, procurement, to
allow the generation of quarterly PMRs. The Borrower strongly requested that the Loan Agreement be
amended at the earliest possible time to switch to Financial Management Reports (FMRs) in line with the
new Bank guidelines. The Government and the Bank therefore agreed to define the format and content of
FMRs, according with the government and the Bank requirements, during the first quarter of 2002. The
FMRs will contain information on financial performance, procurement and project financial outcomes.
Financial Manazement Action Plan
Action           Responsible Entity   Completion Date
It was agreed    PCU                 By effectiveness.
with PCU to
contract a CPA.
Define format and PCU/Bank           By effectiveness.
content of PMRs.
FMRs will be     PCU                 No later than six months after the
produced.                            effectiveness.
Installed a new  PCU                 During 2002 first half.
Financial System
"SIGFE".
Send final      PCU                   By effectiveness.
Operational
Manual
To contract the  PCU                  By effectiveness.
Auditors (Private
Firm).
Auditing Arrangements
Annual project financial statement will be audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing,
by independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference (TORs) both acceptable to the Bank. In
addition to the audit opinion on project financial statement, the annual audit report should included a
separate opinion on Special Account, Statement of Expenditures (if used) and a memorandum on internal
control ("management letter") and compliance with legal agreement covenants. The annual audit report
will be submitted to the Bank within 120 days of the close of the project's financial year.
The Auditors will be contracted by the PCU as required by OP/BP 10.02 by loan effectiveness. The
auditor will be selected in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers". The auditors should be hired at project inception, and prior to
the commencement of each project fiscal year thereafter, so that the interim SOEs and FMRs (if applicable)
will be audited at the end of each fiscal year during project implementation. The "Guidelines and Terms of
Reference for Audits of Projects with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin America and the
Caribbean Region" should be followed when preparing the terms of reference for the audit and these
guidelines should be provided to the selected auditors. The cost of the audit fees for the annual audit will
be finance by the loan.
The Bank recommendation is hiring audit finns for the whole life of the project, but for no more than three
-46 -



years. In this case, it is recommended that one firm be hired for the first two years of project execution,
while a different firm be hired for the subsequent period of two years. The Plroject Procurement Plan for
the first year of project should include the hiring of the auditors.
Special account:
The Government will establish, maintain, and operate in the Central Bank (under the terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank) a Special Account in US dollars. The authorized allocation will be
US$1,700,000, however, initially limited to US$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals shall
be equal to or exceed US$3,000,000. All disbursement against contracts of goods for less than
US$100,000, consultant firms for less than US$150,000, individuals consultants for less than US$50,000,
and training would be made on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The
documentation for SOEs would not be sent to the Bank but would be retained by the PCU and made
available for inspection by Bank staff and auditors.
- 47 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHILE: Public Expenditure Management Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             01/02/2001                  01/02/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     11/26/2001                   11/26/2001
Negotiations                                    12/17/2001                   12/17/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2002                  06/30/2002
Prepared by:
Roberto 0. Panzardi
Preparation assistance:
Sandra Alborta
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                     Speciality
Roberto Panzardi (LCSPS)          Task Manager - Public Sector Specialist
Ronald E. Myers (LCSPS)           Team Leader - Principal Public Sector Management Specialist
Juan Navas-Sabater (CITPO)        Information and Communications Technology Specialist
Marta Elena Molares-Halberg       Counsel
(LEGLA)
Jaime Roman (LCOPR)               Lead Procurement Specialist
Andres Mac Gaul (LCOPR)           Procurement Specialist
Susana Cirigliano (LCOAA)         Financial Management Specialist
Xiomara Morel (LOAG3)             Senior Financial Management Specialist
Norma Rodriguez (LCSPS)           Procurement Analyst
David Rosenblatt (LCSPE)          Senior Economist
Gisela Durand (CONS)              Financial Management Specialist
Osvaldo Albano (CONS)             Integrated Financial Management Specialist
Edgard Rosas (CONS)               Information Technology Specialist
Peter Gregory (CONS)              Civil Service Specialist
Sandra Alborta (LCSPS)            Language Program Assistant
Peer Reviewers
William Dorotinsky (PMRPS)        Public Expenditure Specialist - Peer Reviewer
Jim Wesberry (CONS)               Comptroller General Specialist - Peer Reviewer
-48-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHILE: Public Expenditure Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
PIP
Operation Manual
Project Procurement Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Report on the advances in the Preparation of the Public Expenditure Management Program. Prepared by
Osvaldo Albano (November, 2000).
Analysis of Project Conceptual Document. Discursion Document, prepared by the Identification Mission
(January, 2001).
Financial Management Assessment (FMA), prepared by Susana Cirigliano (September 2001)
Project Procurement Assessment (PPA), prepared by Andres MacGaul (August 2001)
C. Other
Chile: a Reform Agenda for Public Expenditure Management. IMF (September 1999).
Strategies for improving budgeting and financial management in Chile, prepared by Allen Schick (June
2000).
Chile: Recent Policy Lessons and Emerging Challenges. World Bank Institute (1999).
Modemizacion de la Gestion Financiera del Estado. Republica de Chile (July 2000).
Proyecto Sistema de Informacion para la Gestion Financiera del Estado - SIGFE (February 2000).
Informe-Vision Preliminar del Sistema de Informacion del Gobierno General, prepared by Rodolfo
Sepulveda A., Danilo Jubal C. y Leonardo Sanchez G. (February 1999).
Sistema de Informacion para la Gestion Financiera del Estado, preparado por la Contraloria General de la
Republica y el Ministerio de Hacienda - Direccion de Presupuestos (July 1999).
Estructura General del Prototipo Informatico (informe en discusion - 1999).
Informe de Personal del Sector Publico - Direccion de Presupuestos, Subdireccion de Racionalizacion
Funcion Publica (1998).
Evaluacion de Programas e Indicadores de Desempeno. Transparencia y Mejoramiento de los
Procedimientos para la Elaboracion y Discurso Presupuestaria (October 2001).
Modemizacion del Estado e Indicadores de Desempeno en el Sector Publico: La Experiencia Chilena,
prepared by Mario Marcel (October 1997).
Intrucciones para la Ejecucion de la Ley de Presupuesto del Sector Publico (2000).
Aspectos Macroeconomicos del Proyecto de Ley de Presupuestos del Sector Publico del Ano 2002
(Octubre 2001).
Exposicion sobre el Estado de la Hacienda Publica, presented by Mr. Nicolas Eysaguirre Guzman (October
2001).
Ley No. 10.336, Ley de Organizacion y Atribuciones de la Contraloria General.
*Including electronic files
-49 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHILE: Public Expenditure Management Project
07-Dec-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frnm Revd
P055481        1999 CL-HIGHER EDUCATION                             145.45      0.00                           0.00    107.66      54.21      0.00
P055480        1999 CL MUNIC DEVT II                                10.10       0.00                           0.00      9.00       7.90      0.00
P063386        1999 CL-MILLENNIUM INSTITUTIONS (LIL)                 5.00       0.00                           0.00      0.53       0.53      0.00
P006661        1995 THIRD RD SCTR                                  120.00       0.00                           0.00      7.14       7.14      7.14
Total:      280.55       0.00                          0.00      124.33     69.78       7.14
- 50-



CHILE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1991/93            Aconcagua                     0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.45     0.00   0.00
1991/94            BOMASA                        0.00    2.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.80    0.00    0.00
CBT                           0.00   14.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   14.00    0.00    0.00
1999               CBTI                          0.00    0.00    1.70    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.70    0.00
1999               Escondida                     0.00    0.00   18.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    14.57   0.00
1989/91/99         FEPASA                       13.78    0.00    0.00    5.70   13.78    0.00     0.00   5.70
1996               ING-MLF-Nature F              1.20    0.00    0.00    1.80    1.20    0.00    0.00     1.80
1990               MonedaMgt                     0.00    0.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.13     0.00   0.00
1994/96/97         Pangue                        0.00    2.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.82     0.00    0.00
1993               Pionero Fondo                 0.00    9.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.33     0.00    0.00
1994               Proa Fund                     0.00    7.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.34     0.00    0.00
1996               San Antonio                  35.00    3.70    0.00   65.00   12.25    3.70     0.00   22.75
2000
Total Portfolio:       49.98    40.57   20.02   72.50    27.23  40.57    16.27   30.25
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHILE: Public Expenditure Management Project
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
Chile  & Carib.   Income      Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      15.2      516       647                 Life expectancy
GN I per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 4,610     3,680    4,620
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     70.1     1,895    2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
PoDulatlon (%)                                        1.4       1.6      1.3
Labor force (%)                                       2.0       2.3      2.0      GNI                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                      enroflment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)  21
Urban population (% of total poDu/ation)              86        75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      76        70        69
Infant mortalltY (per 1.000 five births)              10        30        28
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             1         9                    Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of populatIon)  94        85        87
Illiteracy (1% of population age 15+)                  4        12        10
Gross primary enrollment (of school-age population)  101       113       107           Chle
Male                                               103                 106              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                             100                 105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratio**
GDP (US$ billions)                          27.6     30.3      66.3     70.5
Gross domestic investmentiGDP               21.0     25.1      21.1     21.7
ExDorts of aoods and services/GDP           22.8     34.6      29.0     31.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  16.9     28.4      23.2     22.8
Gross national savinas/GDP                  13.5     23.2      21.1     20.1
Current account balance/GDP                          -1.6      -0.1     -1.4      Domestic                   Investment
Interest Davments/GDP                        3.3      4.5       3.1      3.9     savings
Total debtGDP                               43.8     63.4      57.0      60.2
Total debt service/exports                           27.1      15.2      15.8
Present value of debtGDP                                       54.2
Present value of debtUexports                                 179.1
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual pro wth)
GDP                                 4.2      6.8     -1.1       5.4       5.0        -Chile
GOP per caPita                      2.5      5.2     -2.4       4.0       3.8        ...----------Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       6.9      9.4      6.9       7.5       7.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (I%)
(X6 of GDP)                                                                      4
Agriculture                                  7.3      8.7      11.6      11.4    40
Industry                                    37.4     41.5      36.8     37.5     20
Manufacturing                             21.5     19.6      17.4      17.4               _
Services                                    55.3     49.8      51.7      51.0    -20  -5    rs 96 57                00
Private consumption                         70.7     61.9      65.0     65. 1    401
General government consumption              12.5      9.8      11.8      122                    G01     -  GDP
Imports of goods and services               27.0     31.4      27.2     30.8              -
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  5.9      4.2      -0.7       7.6    30
Industr                                      3.5      6.0       2.7      4.5     20
Manufacturlng                              3.4      4.6      -0.7       4.3    15
Services                                     2.9      5.2      -0.7       5.0     0
Private consumption                          2.0      7.4      -3.1      4.1    -10     9s 
General govemment consumption                0.4      3.9       2.5      3.5    -20
Gross domestic Investment                    6.4      8.9     -25.5      13.7                 Exports    *   imports
Imports of ooods and services                1.8     11.0     -14.3      101
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 52-



Chile
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
(% chanqe)                                                                      15
Consumer prices                             35.1     26.0       3.3      4.0    10
Implicit GDP deflator                       28.8     21.2       3.5      4.1
Government finance                                                               s
(% of GDP, includes current grants) o
Current revenue                                ..    20.6      22.5     23.7           9s    96     97    98    99   C
Current budget balance                        ..      2.5       2.5      3.7           -     GDP deflator -OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..      0.8      -1.5      0.1
TRADE
(UIS$ millions)                            1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        4,706    8,373    15.616   18,158    2,000
Copper                                   2,125    3,810     5,889    7,37      20000
Fruits                                     340      757     1,212    1,122
Manufactures                             1,751    2.739     7,152    8,172     15,000
Total imports (cif)                                 7742     15,137   18,089    10000
Food
Fuel and energy                             ..    1,208     1,799    2,890     s
Capital goods                               ..    2,137     3,270    3,702        o
94  9s   96    97  98   99   00
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      77        67       73
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      88       111      122                U Exports     a Imporis
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      88        60       60
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of m oods and services )10222                        19,406   22,087     0
Imports of goods and services                      9,173     18,056   21,209    a                   E   U
Resource balance                              ..    1,049     1,350     878         I-
Net income                                    ..   -1.731    -1,881   -2,404
Net current transfers                         ..     197       453      538     -3 -    'I
Current account balance                        .    -485       -78     -989     4 -
Financing items (net)                          .   2,853      -605     1,186     s1
Changes in net reserves                        .   -2,368      683     -198     4-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..   5,358     15,013   15,211
Conversion rate (DEC, loca#US$)             39.0   305.1      508.8    535.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      12.081   19,226    37,762   42,469
IBRD                                      163    1,860       877      808                     A: 808 B: 7
IDA                                        21       14         8        7            G: 9.921
Total debt service                         2,706   2,772      5,210    4,048
IBRD                                       25      249       181      185                                  1D: 2,390
IDA                                         0        1         1        1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             9       73        14        0
Official creditors                       -145      294       -83     -106                                   E: 494
Private creditors                        2,234   1,187     -3,6S6    2,261
Foreign direct investment                 213      590     4,366    -1,103
Portfolio equity                            0      320       130     -261                F: 18,849
World Bank program
Commitments                                74      130       161        0      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              14      251        43       48      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        9      120       111      116     IC-IMF                      G-Short-term
Net flows                                   5      132       -68      -67
Interest payments                          16      130        71       70
Net transfers                             -11        1      -139     -138
Development Economics                                                                                            9/26/01
- 53 -



- 54 -



z 3z 0e '_ ' . ' 4 t t ~~~v-- rc                      6 0 'wt $ L I V I A
_$ i > o c   A  R  G  E  N  T  I N  A<|         t  ,,   , <>mr
t      < E; I,j TIR i0 r
7 
.               . 
'~~~~~~~~~~1 m , 
I  Xr.                g            7 6          art~~~~IL



