Report No. PID9889
Project Name                     Chile-Public Expenditure Management@
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           BF - Public Financial Management
Project ID                       CLPE69259
Borrower(s)                      Republic Of Chile
Implementing Agency
Address Ministry Of Finance
Address: Ministry of Finance, Piso 12 , Calle
Teatinos #120, Santiago,Chile
Contact Person: Roberto Cerri, Advisor to the
Budget Director, Ministry of Finance
Tel: (562) 671-7113
Fax: (562) 671-1351
Email: rcerri@dipres.Cl
Comptroller General's Office
Address: Calle Teatinos # , Santiago Chile
Contact Person: Pedro Ortiz, Chief Accounting
Division, Comptroller General's Office
Tel: (506) 698-0285
Fax: (506) 696-6374
Email: portiz@contraloria.cl
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 30, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 20, 2001
Projected Board Date             January 17, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Chile successfully completed the first generation of political economy
reforms during the 1980's and 1990's. Privatization, deregulation, trade
liberalization, and sound fiscal and monetary policies were pursued by
several Administrations.   Public finances improved through tight controls
on spending and extensive reforms in revenue policy and administration,
and as a result Chile has recorded overall budget surpluses in 9 of the
last 10 years. Public employment has been kept small relative to the size
of government and international comparisons. Significant innovations were
advanced in the areas of health and education service delivery, pensions
and social security, and E-Government. Building on the base of fiscal
discipline, considerable talent in both the public and private sectors,
and careful reform design and implementation, the country ranks positively
in international surveys of business competitiveness and level of
corruption. Chile, nevertheless, faces pressures of competition
(especially given its location far from major markets), increasing citizen
demands for improved services, and vulnerability to external shocks. It
needs to increase the agility and flexibility of its economy to respond to
shifting economic opportunities, while continuing to extend the benefits



of growth. The administration of President Ricardo Lagos Escobar is
therefore seeking to deepen public sector modernization in order to
squeeze out further improvements in efficiency and effectiveness, enhance
transparency and access to information, as well as promote a culture of
service and public participation. New or intensified second generation
reforms in decentralization, out-sourcing, strengthening the
professionalism of the civil service, results focus and citizen feedback
are being pursued. State modernization would also support the
Government's fiscal goal of achieving a sustainable budget surplus
equivalent to 1 percent of GDP from 2002 onwards. A pillar of Chile's
state reform program will be accelerated modernization of public
expenditure management. It is important to note that Chile's budget
processes have been successful in producing fiscal surpluses supporting
macroeconomic stabilization. The system is markedly "hierarchical" --the
Ministry of Finance takes precedence over the sectorial ministries and
agencies in the formulation of the budget, and the executive branch rather
than the legislature has the last word in the approval process. The
Congress can only reduce proposed spending and cannot adjust revenue
projections or reallocated funds among programs. The budget is detailed
(more than 4,000 items plus approximately 1,000 special clauses),
comprehensive (covering the bulk of the public sector), and strict
deadlines are mandated by law and observed in practice. A degree of
flexibility exists in execution, given Chile's long reliance on
decentralized public "services" (quasi-autonomous agencies nominally
reporting to ministries). Cash funds are transferred by the Finance
Ministry on a monthly basis to these entities based on a cash allocation
schedule drawn up at the beginning of the year. Despite its successes, by
the first half of the 1990's the system was seen as undermining the
allocative and efficiency goals of modern budgeting.     The system retains
a focus on controlling expenditures of liquid resources (not promoting
efficient and effective use of those resources, assessing the results of
spending, or fully accounting for the economic costs incurred). As a
result, line agencies are weak in financial and human resource management
and not acting as full partners in the planning and execution of their
operations. A lack of adequate and timely information, and a limited
planning and evaluation capacity undermine service delivery, especially
measured against the standards of Chile's global competitors. Specific
problems include the following: (i) the government's financial management
systems are overly decentralized, inadequately integrated, and do not
provide real time data or adequate performance monitoring information;
(ii) the formulation and supervision of macroeconomic policy and public
investment suffers from organizational overlaps, gaps in information, and
an insufficient coordination especially between economic and social sector
ministries and on inter-temporal decisions; (iii) the Ministry of Finance
does not have sufficient capacity to properly analyze, formulate, and
execute multi-year budgets taking into account macroeconomic and public
investment circumstances; (iv) a modern human resource management
information system, linked to financial management, does not exist; (v)
the bureaucratic culture remains input driven rather than results
oriented; (vi) the government lacks a broadly disseminated and robust
system to evaluate budget execution; and (vii) more fundamentally, the
legislature and public still sees the government budget process in terms
of fights over incremental annual changes in resource allocations rather
than an opportunity for more informed debate on strategic goals and
tactical trade-offs. In this regard the Administration is concerned that
- 2 -



inadequate public access to, or focus on, information relating to public
choices puts the country at continued risk of adopting ill-conceived
populist policies. During the 1990's the government initiated a series of
reform measures including the development of performance indicators,
results evaluations, and performance based pay schemes. Based on these
pilot efforts, and a concern that a more coherent and aggressive
commitment to modernization is required, the authorities have now designed
a comprehensive program designed to improve the trade-off between tight
fiscal control and effective program execution. It involves a three-track
approach very much in line with international trends in budget
reform:provision of increased flexibility by spending agencies in their
access to budget funds and the uses to which funds can be put;provision of
greater predictability in the operating environment of spending agencies,
particularly in regard to availability of funds; andincreased pressure on
agencies to pursue improvements in program results.Each of the tracks is
essential because the provision of more flexibility and predictability to
spending agencies without accountability for results could lead to reduced
fiscal control without improvements in efficiency and effectiveness. It
is anticipated that line agencies will support the reforms in order to
secure greater control over their operations while the central agencies
(Ministry of Finance and Comptroller General's Office) would improve
expenditure control through an expanded ability to identify and more
easily withdraw funds from unproductive activities. Moreover, the focus on
results and involvement of stakeholders (line agencies and Congress)
through the formulation and discussion of multi-annual financial plans
would promote transparency and more "collegiate" (rather than
hierarchical) participatory decision-making.
2. Objectives
This Public Expenditure Management Reform Project (PEMR) would support a
second generation of reforms to improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and
transparency of the Chilean public administration (including all
centralized and decentralized agencies with the exception of public
enterprises, universities and municipalities), in order to strengthen the
country's ability to implement its economic and social development
programs and help reduce poverty. By establishing a modern and integrated
financial management and resource allocation system, it would strengthen
core public sector institutions' ability to provide quality service
delivery, improve efficiency within tight fiscal constraints, and respond
more efficiently to the globalization process.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has developed a comparative knowledge on issues affecting public
sector reform. Worldwide experience and comparative advantage in the areas
of governance, state modernization, rules of law, decentralization,
integrated financial management systems, civil service reform,
institutional reorganization, deregulation, transparency, etc. are some
areas where the Bank has proven to play a catalytic role and
dissemination. For example, in the area of integrated financial
management, the Bank has considerable experience in several countries such
as Guatemala, Nicaragua, Bolivia, and Argentina.     Bank staff have
experience in researching and analyzing human resource management systems,
multi-year and result oriented budgeting, and medium term expenditure
framework in several regions. The Bank's leading role in public sector
modernization efforts reflect its comparative advantages in: (i)
- 3-



technically sound advice; (ii) rapid transfer of innovations and lesson
learned from similar experiences in the region and elsewhere; (iii) fast
and flexible response to client's needs; and (iv) ability to address
cross-cutting issues with projects in several line ministries, integrated
financial management, judicial reform, as well as in its relations with
the IMF.
4. Description
The proposed project addresses the key challenges in public expenditure
management in a comprehensive manner. Specifically it would: (i)
establish a modern integrated financial management system in the central
government and public agencies as a basis for modern information
management and streamlined business processes, permitting more operational
decentralization with normative centralization; (ii) promote budget reform
through a medium term expenditure framework involving multi-annual
financial planning and deepened focus on results oriented budgeting; (iii)
upgrade civil service management information systems and their linkage
with performance evaluations and agency budget results; and (iv)
strengthen the institutional capacity of line agencies in the areas of
financial and human resource management. The project would finance
technical assistance, goods and equipment including information technology
(hardware, software, and telecommunications equipment), and training. The
project will be implemented in stages, seeking to identify and use lessons
learned internally and from international experience, while maintaining
fiscal control. Component 1 - Financial Management Modernization This
component will support the a comprehensive effort to modernize and
integrate the government's financial management information system through
related information technology and sub-system reform components.
Financial Management Information System (FMIS)The information technology
sub-component would support the design, testing, and installation of a
modern integrated financial management system through consulting services,
institutional capacity building of financial management units, training of
staff, and information technology investments. The core of the component
would be the development of a unified information management system with
the following characteristics: (i) modular design and integration into a
single homogeneous system for the entire public sector, in accordance with
the established budgetary and accounting standards, and the needs and
management characteristics of the institutions; (ii) validation of
transactions and instantaneous recording of data where and as the
operations take place, avoiding the re-entry of data; (iii) extensive use
of advanced means of data communications (in particular, the government
Intranet, which will support on-line processing of transactions), as
required by each of the project's components and institutions, with
adequate security levels and audit trails; (iv) availability of special
modules to aid in the analysis of alternative scenarios to help in
decision-making during financial planning, budget formulation, and budget
execution; (v) early identification of overlaps and potential areas of
coordination among entities conducting independent activities with similar
goals, and better targeting of beneficiaries through "virtual"
institutions or services (multi-sectorial and/or multi-institutional
programs); (vi) maximum transparency, through provision of information
over the Internet, so that every citizen and authorized personnel, based
on access levels, may navigate among the various public services,
identifying programs, projects, products, inputs, performance levels,
goals, and objectives of institutional budgets at the national, regional
-4 -



and sectorial levels; (vii) continuous evolution and improvement of the
system, through, among others, the establishment of authorization levels
and relations among users, implementation of security systems, the
establishment of links to others sub-systems (such as procurement, public
credit, fixed assets and inventory management, public investments and
human resources) and development of additional functionality to respond to
new information requirements or to support new means or forms of access to
the information. The overall development strategy is based on the now
standard three-tier information systems model, brought about by the
revolution caused by the Internet and Internet-related technologies, by
which users will access the system through Web-like interfaces. Given the
tradition of different institutions of using diverse database management
systems, and the reluctance of some of them to move towards a centralized
database system, the applications developed will support multiple database
management systems from different vendors, and a "virtual" central
database system will be created with standards-based exchange of
information (such as through XML) . The system will be the same in every
institution, but will have the ability to produce information at three
major levels of aggregation: central, sectorial or ministerial, and
institutional.The project will deploy modules as they become available in
a pilot group of five institutions first, beginning with the budgeting and
accounting modules in early 2002. Other main modules, on treasury and
financial planning, among others, will be developed through mid-2002. The
final version will also include auxiliary modules on mid-term programming
and information reporting, among others, which will be available by early
2003. After the first version has been tested in the five pilot
institutions, the system will be expanded to twenty more institutions
during 2003 and to the rest of the public sector during 2004.Related
Sub-Systems ReformThe IT systems will be developed simultaneously and in
close collaboration with reforms in policies and norms and business
process reengineering in accounting and cash management in order to
maximize gains in efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency. In
accounting the project will support: (i) review and updating of the
accrual based public accounting system including the national Chart of
Accounts to ensure its compliance with generally accepted international
standards; (ii) improved recording of budget commitments, execution, and
contingent liabilities; (iii) more explicit identification of cost
centers, by program, project, and/or public services to facilitate results
evaluation; (iv) development of financial performance indices and
coefficients to better estimate and monitor general expenditures
(overheads); and (v) improved accounting for state assets (property and
real estate) laying the basis for applying capital charges to agencies for
use of those assets. In cash management, the project will support (i)
improved policies and procedures for cash planning (involving better
reporting on budget commitments and analysis of past cash flow); (ii)
simplification and standardization of payment processes; (iii) faster and
more automatic reconciliation of bank accounts (comparing public accounts
balances reported by banks with Treasury's information); (iv) strengthened
guidelines and procedures for short term investments, debt, and seasonal
cash surpluses in order to increase returns on government funds; and (v)
improved reporting to senior officials to facilitate timely
decision-making.Component 2 - Budget Reform to Create a Medium Term
Expenditure FrameworkMulti-Annual Financial PlanningA multi-annual
financial planning sub-component would support strengthening the
government's capacity to focus on macroeconomic, fiscal, and public
- 5 -



investment policies, linked to resource allocation decision-making and the
budget in a forward looking multi-annual context.     Using improved
information on budget execution and results performance, the aim is to
increase the focus on strategic considerations for longer term budget
formulation, strengthen the efficiency and accountability of sector
spending within hard budget constraints, and reduce the gaps between
policy making, planning, and budgeting. A capacity would be developed to
create realistic rolling expenditure plans that integrate current
information on fiscal projections, sector priorities, recurrent spending
implications of investment programs, and evolving national priorities.
Key tasks include: (i) developing financial planning methodologies
(policies and procedures) to incorporate consistent and realistic
projections of out-year resource inflows and recurrent and capital
expenditure options; (ii) strengthening management systems to promote
appropriate analysis of funding alternatives in DIPRES; (iii)
strengthening of management systems to promote adequate analyses and
studies of budget allocations, financial projections and medium-term
policies and improving mechanisms for decision-making within both the
Executive and Legislative branches; (iv) training of DIPRES and public
agencies personnel on the use of medium-term financial planning
methodologies and techniques; and (v) strengthening the institutional
capacity of a unit responsible, within the Ministry of Finance, for the
formulation of the medium term financial planning and projections. This
effort would lay the basis, should the government so decide, to publish
multi-annual budgets.Budgeting by ResultsA budgeting by results
sub-component will support the Budget Directorate (DIPRES) in the
development of methodologies that strengthen the implementation of the
existing programs for result-oriented budgeting: Performance Indicators,
Evaluation of Governmental Programs, Comprehensive Evaluations, and
Governmental Priorities Fund. Key tasks would include: (i) technical
assistance for key aspects of public program evaluation, focusing
especially in methodologies of impact (outcomes) evaluation. It would
cover methodology aspects and techniques focused on specific sectors
(education, training, environment, health, etc.) as well as approaches
relevant to all sectors. The beneficiaries of this technical assistance
will be professionals responsible for program evaluation at various
ministries and agencies, and in DIPRES; (ii) the development (or
improvement) and implementation of an information sub-system or interfaces
that would provide data required for a strengthened and integrated
evaluation effort; (iii) knowledge dissemination of the different programs
developed for result-oriented budgeting, allowing the consolidation of
these programs and the creation of an evaluation culture. This task
includes carrying out of workshops and seminars for professionals
responsible of the different result-oriented budgeting programs
(performance indicators, evaluation of governmental programs, etc.) at
various agencies and ministries and the publication of documents; and (iv)
review of international experience with result-oriented budgeting to
identify those practices applicable to Chile.Component 3 - Human Resources
Management Information SystemThis component would fund the design of a
human resources management and control information system which would
support sector strategic goals, agency results, and performance evaluation
of public employees. The project would fund: (i) design and installation
of an electronic human resources management and control information system
covering personnel registries and personnel histories covering all public
employees. Inter-agency connectivity and linkage to the financial
- 6 -



management information system will improve decision making processes
relating to budget formulation, resource allocation, policies on
selection, training, evaluation, and incentives of staff and performance
evaluations; (ii) installation of the information system in line and
rector agencies; and (iii) transfer of existing paper based human resource
information in the Comptroller General's Office into these databases.
Component 4 - Strengthening Financial and Human Resource Management
Units   Chile has decided to intensify, and make more coherent, its state
modernization reform effort in line agencies. A key pillar of this would
be to strengthen the capacity of the financial and human resources
management units in those entities. This would support both the
implementation and sustainability of the Public Expenditure Management
project, but more generally the effort to create results oriented
organizations with the tools (trained staff, equipment, regulatory
framework, and culture) to achieve these broader goals. Specifically this
component will seek to strengthen institutional capacity in the Ministry
of Finance, Office of the Comptroller General, and financial/human
resources management units in line agencies in order to successfully
implement the other project components (FMIS, budget reform, and human
resources management information). The component would fund: (i)
organizational diagnoses in the agencies, especially related to budget and
finance; (ii) implantation of the new systems including limited
investments in computer technology and equipment, training, and
certification of institutional capacity, with reengineering of financial
processes as required; (iii) regulatory adjustments as necessary; (iv)
monitoring and evaluation of reform implementation; and (v) an education
campaign (including seminars, workshop, surveys, media) to inform the
public, civil servants and the civil society on the financial management
modernization program. Its implementation would be phased, targeted first
on rector agencies (Ministry of Finance, Comptroller General's Office) and
a few pilot agencies, and then rolled out more broadly to all central
government entities. Protocols delineating the roles of the rector
institutions, agencies, and project would be signed to guide the process
of implementation. Incentives to the line agencies include access to
training, upgraded equipment, improved management of financial and human
resources, and better planning and evaluation capabilities.Component 5 -
Reform ManagementThis component would finance the costs of the project
coordinating unit (PCU) within the Ministry of Finance. It will finance
activities, goods and services including international and local staff,
support personnel, operating costs, and equipment for the unit. The PCU
would be responsible for the supervision of the project, contracting of
and monitoring of consultants, oversight of project finances and technical
outputs, preparation of reports to the Government and the Bank, and
contracting auditing of the project.
Financial Management Modernization
Budget Reform to Create a Medium Term Expenditure Framework
Human Resource Management Information System
Strengthening Financial and Human Resource Management Units Management
Reform Management
-7-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 9.2
IBRD 23.23
Total Project Cost 30.7
6. Implementation
Project coordination and Management. The Government has created a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) in the Budget Directorate of the Ministry of
Finance responsible for the administration of the project. It will be
headed by a Project Director and comprised of a procurement expert, chief
financial officer, and experienced professionals assigned to assist in the
implementation and monitoring of major project components. The PCU will
manage the procurement and disbursement aspects related to contracting of
consultants, financing of salaries, and the provision of goods and
equipment under this project. It will coordinate the provision of
technical assistance services to other beneficiary agencies in accordance
with procedures specified in a project implementation manual (completed
before Board presentation), and ensure that bidding, procurement,
contracting, and disbursement takes place within Bank guidelines and the
loan agreement. The PCU will also be responsible for preparing or
reviewing specifications for all equipment purchases.A procurement
assessment of the PCU by a Bank specialist has been completed and an
action plan agreed upon. The Bank's standard procurement documents for the
employment of consultants will be used without substitution or
modification of the terms and conditions except with the prior approval of
the Bank. Consultant services will be procured in accordance with
provisions of the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultancies
by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and January
1999). Goods will be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Financial Management. A
financial management assessment by a Bank specialist has been completed.
The review included visits to the PCU, and was based on the Bank's
guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System." It focused on
assessment of the project's accounting system, staffing, internal control,
planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an
auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management
Report (PMR). The Financial Management Specialist confirmed that the
project satisfies the Bank's financial management requirements in
accordance with OP/BP 10.02. The project has in place an adequate
accounting system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate
and timely information financial statements, flow of funds reports, SOEs
reports and special account reports. The PCU does not have yet a
financial management system on the status of the project (PMR) as required
by the Bank/IDA for PMR-Based Disbursements. Nevertheless, a traditional
(SOE) based disbursement method has been established and the project
expect to produce PMRs within 6-moths period after from effectiveness. The
financial department will be headed by a qualified financial officer and
sufficiently staffed by an accountant to keep adequate records and prepare
necessary financial statements, and auxiliary staff to execute financial
operations and provide control over project assets. In accordance with the
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, the project will be externally
audited every year by an external auditor (private firm) and, if
- 8 -



requested under the Chilean laws, by the CGO. The audit report and the
opinion with the related statements will be presented to the Bank within 4
months of the fiscal year end. The PCU will have an Operations Manual
describing in detail the procedures of all financial operations: cash
receipts, disbursements, control over advances, replenishment procedures,
account reconciliation and controls, and reporting requirements. The PCU
would prepare six-monthly progress reports (with substantive, procurement
and financial indicators) required for Bank review or supervision during
the execution of the project.Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. In
line with Bank rules emphasis will be placed on continuous monitoring and
project supervision, the identification and incorporation of lessons
learned, and consensus building. Performance indicators to measure inputs
and process, and outputs and outcomes are defined in Annex 1. To promote
project integration and lesson learning across agencies, semi-annual
supervision missions would be held to review progress achieved and decide
on necessary adjustments, discuss the draft progress reports, and review
proposals for the following year. The oversight provided by consultative
groups from civil society offers an additional vehicle for feedback and
development of broader political consensus during project execution.
Annual Project Plans (APP) prepared for each forthcoming project year
would include detailed activities and costs. A project launch workshop
consisting of the PCU, rector institutions, and public agencies would be
organized by the PCU to reinforce implementation and define monitoring
responsibilities. Upon project completion, the PCU would collaboration to
prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within a period of six
months.
7. Sustainability
Several administrations have supported successful public sector
modernization initiatives during the 1980's and 1990's. The current
administration believes that further measures are necessary to help
sustain economic growth and increase the responsiveness of the public
sector and its ability to deliver higher quality services at lower cost.
As in other countries, the improvements sought should garner support from
the public, suppliers of goods services to the public sector, recipients
of government services, investors, and public employees. Although the
reforms will require a well coordinated and interrelated series of legal,
institutional, and procedural reforms, they are not technically difficult
and have been successfully implemented in other countries. Reform
irreversibility is difficult to guarantee but up-front commitment is
important and support for state modernization has been clearly expressed
by President of Chile both during the electoral campaign and subsequently.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Key lessons learned in World Bank projects and applied in this operation
include:First, the need for borrower commitment, strong project
leadership, and an appropriate macro-economic framework. As indicated
above the Government has established a high level oversight commission,
created a project coordinating unit within the Ministry of Finance, and is
adhering to a strong macroeconomic program.Second, in line with the 1997
World Development Report, the project: (i) builds on the redefinition of
the role of the Chilean state, by supporting operational decentralization
but with appropriate policy oversight and uniform standards; (ii) seeks to
match the role of the state to its capability, in this case a small state
with a normative role in economic development seeking to assure the
-9-



transparent rule of law, (iii) building a better public sector in the
remaining core activities by strengthening service delivery through
various measures including modernized and open financial management,
results-oriented policies for organizations and personnel, and explicit
evaluation initiatives; and (iv) sequencing reforms cautiously by
targeting key rector and line agencies, rolling out reforms as capacity
increases. Third, the Chilean authorities, anxious to establish the
institutional basis for better competing in the global economy, recognize
that merely changing formal rules, within a culture and incentive
structure that does not value results or performance, is doomed.
Therefore the project aims at changing incentives to affect behavior. The
strong focus on accountability mechanisms, human resources management
information, transparency initiatives, and powerful integrated information
technology all aim to create a results oriented administration. Fourth,
building on the lessons learned from the First and Second Public Sector
Management Technical Assistance Project (PSM I and II), the project
recognizes that the preparation stage is very important for successful
implementation. The PPF is funding the design and testing of key project
features before their general implementation. Fifth, the quality of the
results of any diagnosis, study or implementation plan prepared by any
consultant depends on the background and quality of the counterpart team.
Every effort will be made to ensure a high quality counterpart team with
access to relevant specialists.Finally, PCU personnel can strongly affect
project execution so the unit is being built carefully (including input
from separate Bank assessments on procurement and financial management
capacities). Recent decisions to have the unit report solely to the
Budget Directorate will streamline decision-making and help maintain the
focus on the project goals.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No significant environmental issues identified.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Roberto 0. Panzardi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:(202) 473-39261
12.  For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
- 10 -



not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 7,2001
- 11 -



