Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4650-CH
Loan Agreement
(Public Expenditure Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 20, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4650-CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 2002, between the REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
Page  2
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“DIPRES” means the Borrower’s Budget Directorate;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures for goods and services referred to in 
Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project referred 
to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(e)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter dated 
December 18, 2001 from the Borrower to the Bank;
(f)
“Project Management Report” or “PMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 
of this Agreement;
(h)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on 
October 18, 2000 and on behalf of the Borrower on December 22, 2000; and
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-three million two hundred 
and thirty thousand dollars ($23,230,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal  to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means an initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or 
next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Periods), as reasonably 
Page  4
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, 
in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or portions thereof 
made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by 
the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereof, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through DIPRES with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial, administrative, management and 
environmental practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain during the execution 
of the Project, a project coordination unit in DIPRES with structure and functions satisfactory  to 
the Bank, with qualified staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about December 1 of each year, commencing December 1, 2002, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved  in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date;
(c)
review with the Bank by March 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2003 or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section; 
and
(d)
thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reviews and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational 
manual satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), said manual to include, 
inter alia
,
the 
procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project (including the 
procurement and financial requirements thereof).
Section 3.06.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
Page  6
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, 
not later than six months after the Effective Date or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the period covered by said report and 
Page  7
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have established the PCU and appointed its financial 
management assistant;
(b)
the Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower and approved by the 
Bank;
(c)
the action plan for procurement of goods and services during the first year of 
Project implementation has been approved by the Bank; and
(d)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have been 
appointed.
Section 5.02. The date September 20, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Facsimile: (56-2) 698-8903
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Buenos 
Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Jorge Arrate
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf of the
 Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile
By: /s/ Jorge Arrate
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf of the
 Controller General of the Republic of Chile
By: /s/ Jorge Arrate
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Part A
: General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  10
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of 
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
7,700,000
80%
(2)
Consultants’ services
10,800,000
80%
(excluding audits) and
Training
(3)
Auditing Services
500,000
80%
(4)
Refunding of Project
2,000,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement
(5)
Fee
232,300
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
1,997,700
TOTAL
23,230,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Training” means expenditures (other than for 
consultants’ services) incurred in connection with the provision of training under the Project, 
including the reasonable travel cost and per-diem of the trainees. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for:
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent (as long as such 
contracts are not subject to prior review under Section I, Part D.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement);
(b)
consultant firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent;
(c)
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and
(d)
training;
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
Page  11
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
Page  12
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
$1,700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount which in the 
aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
Page  13
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed $4,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the effectiveness, efficiency and transparency 
of the Borrower’s public administration by establishing a modern and integrated financial 
management and human resource allocation system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A
: Financial Management Information Systems
1.
Design, testing, and installation of a modern integrated financial management system at 
the central, sectorial and ministerial levels with, 
inter alia
,
the following characteristics: (a) 
modular design and integration into a single homogeneous system for the entire public sector; (b) 
validation of transactions and instantaneous recording of data where and as the operations take 
place; (c) extensive use of advanced means of data communications as required by each public 
institution; (d) availability of special modules to aid in the analysis of alternative scenarios to 
Page  14
help in decision-making during financial planning, budget formulation, and budget execution, as 
well as to allow early identification of overlaps and potential areas of coordination among 
entities conducting independent activities; (e) improved transparency through provision of 
information over the Internet; (f) improvement of the systems, through, among others, the 
establishment of authorization levels and relations among users, implementation of security 
systems, the establishment of links to others sub-systems (such as procurement and public 
credit); and (g) development of additional functionality to respond to new information 
requirements or to support new means or forms of access to the information.
2.
Revision of the Borrower’s business processes and norms in accounting, cash 
management and procurement in order to maximize gains in efficiency, effectiveness, and 
transparency including, 
inter alia
:
(a)
regarding accounting:
(i)
review and updating of the accrual based public accounting system;
(ii)
improvements to the recording of budget commitments, execution, and 
contingent liabilities;
(iii)
more explicit identification of cost centers, by program, project, and/or 
public services to facilitate results evaluation;
(iv)
development of financial performance indices and coefficients to better 
estimate and monitor general expenditures; and
(v) 
improvements of the accounting for the Borrower’s assets;
(b)
regarding cash management:
(i)
improvement of the policies and procedures for cash planning;
(ii)
simplification and standardization of payment processes;
(iii)
automation of the reconciliation of bank accounts;
(iv)
review and updating of the guidelines and procedures for short term 
investments, debt, and seasonal cash surpluses in order to increase 
returns on government funds, to improve the reporting requirements to 
senior officials and to facilitate timely decision-making; and
(c)
regarding procurement:
(i)
carry out a compilation and review of the existing public procurement 
regulation and comparative analysis thereof with international best 
practices; and
(ii)
on the basis of (i) above, preparation of draft regulations to a new 
procurement law of the Borrower, if and when enacted.
Page  15
Part B
: Budget Reform to Create a Medium Term Expenditure Framework
1.
Strengthening DIPRES capacity to focus on macroeconomic, fiscal, and public 
investment policies as a means for deciding on the allocation of resources and the budget in a 
forward looking multi-annual context, including, 
inter alia
:
(a)
development of financial planning methodologies, policies and procedures to 
incorporate consistent and realistic projections of out-year resource inflows and recurrent and 
capital expenditure options;
(b)
strengthening of management systems to promote adequate analyses and studies 
of budget allocations, financial projections and medium-term policies, and to improve the 
mechanisms for decision-making within the Borrower’s executive branches and provision of 
information to the Borrower’s legislative branch;
(c)
training of DIPRES’ and other public agencies’ personnel on the use of 
medium-term financial planning methodologies and techniques; and
(d)
strengthening the institutional capacity of DIPRES for the formulation of 
medium term financial planning and projections.
2.
(a)
Provision of technical assistance at selected ministries and agencies of the 
Borrower for the evaluation of public programs in, 
inter alia
,
education, training, environment 
and health;
(b)
development and improvement of methodologies to evaluate the impact of key 
and strategic programs of the Borrower, and to analyze funding alternatives for such programs;
(c)
review of international experiences with result oriented budgets; and
(d)
dissemination of knowledge of the different programs developed for 
result-oriented budgeting, with a view to creating an evaluation culture.
Part C
: Human Resources Management Information System
1.
Design and installation of an information system for human resource management and 
control, including, 
inter alia
:
(a)
design and installation of an electronic information system for human resources 
management and control covering personnel information of all public employees, as well as 
inter-agency connectivity and linkages to the financial management information system referred 
to in Part A of the Project;
(b)
installation of the information system in line and sector agencies; and
(c)
transfer of the human resource information now existing in the Comptroller 
General’s Office into the human resource information system referred to in Part C.1 (a) above.
Part D
: Strengthening MOF’s Financial and Human Resource Management
Page  16
Strengthening the institutional capacity of DIPRES, the Comptroller General’s Office, 
and  financial management and human resources management units of other agencies of the 
Borrower,  including, 
inter alia
:
(a)
carrying out diagnoses of the organization of the agencies’ financial units;
(b)
provision of computer technology and equipment therefore and development and 
application of new systems thereto;
(c)
preparation of regulations as needed to implement the systems referred to in 
Parts A and B of the Project; and
(d)
carrying out of a dissemination campaign (including seminars, workshops and 
surveys) to inform the Borrower’s civil servants and the public at large about the Borrower’s 
financial management modernization program.
Part E
:
Project Management
1.
Establishment and operation of the PCU.
2.
Carrying out of audits under Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
expressed in Dollars
*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2007 
through October 15, 2016
1,160,000
On  April 15, 2017
1,190,000
Page  17
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Sections I and III. A. of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  18
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent and not exceeding in the 
aggregate $2,900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents 
acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent and not exceeding in the 
aggregate $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B.1 above; and (ii) the first contract for goods procured each year 
in accordance with  the procedures referred to in Part C.1 above, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part C.2 above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  19
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Sections II and III. 
B. of this Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits and routine training assignments may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines and not exceeding in the aggregate $9,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
Page  20
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more the procedures set forth in paragraph 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and  5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, the terms of reference and short list of the consulting firms 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost $50,000 equivalent or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, the terms of reference shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section III
. Special 
Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the procurement of goods 
under Section I, Part C.2 of this Schedule:
1.
Contracts arising from shopping procedures may be awarded only after at least three 
acceptable quotations are compared.  To compare offers the Borrower shall request quotations to 
an ample number of suppliers.
2.
Electronically submitted quotations and any other way of e-procurement may be 
accepted only for awards made following procedures referred to in Part C.2 of Section I of this 
Schedule.
B.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all employment of 
consultants:
1.
Consultants shall be selected on the basis of short-lists and not subject to an open 
competition selection process.
Page  21
2.
The evaluation process and the related documents shall be kept confidential until the 
contract is awarded.
3.
Universities may provide services under the Project by competing in the provision of 
such services.
