Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13072-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 2, 1994
South Asia Country Department II (India)
Population and Human Resources Operations Division



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of May 1, 1994)
Currency Unit     =  Rupee
Rupee 32.00       =  US$ 1.00
Rupee 1.00        =  US$ .031
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)       =  3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)   =  0.62 miles
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWPB        Annual Work Plan and Budget
BRC         Block Resource Center
CABE        Central Advisory Board for Education
DIET        District Institute of Education and Training
DPEP        District Primary Education Program
DPEPPB      DPEP Project Board
EC          European Community
ECE         Early Childhood Education
GOI         Government of India
ICDS        Integrated Child Development Scheme
MIS         Management Information System
MLL         Minimum Levels of Learning
NCERT       National Council of Education Research and Training
NFE         Non-formal Education
NGO         Non-Government Organization
NIEPA       National Institute of Education Planning and Administration
NLM         National Literacy Mission
OBB         Operation Blackboard
PWD         Public Works Department
SC          Scheduled Caste
SCERT       State Council of Educational Research and Training
SDI         Sub Deputy Inspector
SIEMT       State Institute of Educational Management and Training
ST          Scheduled Tribe
TLC         Total Literacy Campaign
TRG         Training Resource Group
VEC         Village Education Committee



INDIA
DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ........................ v
I. SUB-SECTORAL BACKGROUND. ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES .... 1
A. Background . ....................................  1
B. Issues  ........................................ 2
Outcomes of Primary Education ...................... 2
Sub-Sector Constraints ............................ 3
C. Sub-Sector Objectives and Priorities ...................... 9
Policy ...................................... 9
Policy Implementation ........................... 10
IDA Strategy and Rationale for Involvement  ....          ......... 12
Extemal Financing .............................. 13
Lessons of Experience ........................... 13
II. THE PROJECT  ... ................................ 15
A. Scope and Strategy ..................                                      15
B. Goals and Objectives  ..................  16
National Objectives ............. 16
State  Objectives   ...............................   16
District Objectives    .............................  17
C. Project Summary  ....................  17
This report is based on an appraisal mission that visited India in February-March 1994, and
consisted of: World Bank Staff: John Middleton (Principal Education Specialist, Task Manager);
Marlaine Lockheed (Principal Education Specialist, Co-Task Manager), Kevin Casey
(Architect/Implementation Specialist), Meera Chatterjee (WID Officer). Consultants: Philip
Cohen (Consultant - Textbooks), Keith Hinchliffe (Consultant - Economist), Warren Mellor
(UNESCO - MIS), Vijay Rewal (Consultant - Civil Works) and A.B.L. Srivastava (Consultant -
Statistics), Donna Bjerregaard (Consultant -ST Education), Naresh Arora (Consultant -
Architect), Sanjev Sachdev (Consultant - Architect), Uday Mehta (Consultant - Database
Management) and Vinay Oberoi (Consultant - Financial Flows). General Coordination and
Support: Aruna Chandran and Gertrude Stubblefield assisted in preparing the document. Marilyn
Chatterji and Jasvir Bhasin assisted in the mission's preparation. Peer Reviewers: Adriaan
Verspoor (ESP) and Edward Heneveld (ADTHR). The project was endorsed by Richard Skolnik,
Division Chief, India Population and Human Resources Division, and Heinz Vergin, Director,
South Asia Country Department 2.



ii
D.  Building  National Institutional Capacity  .......  .                         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
National Management  ..........  .                         ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .     .   19
National Technical Assistance Programs  ......  .                          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  21
Preparation  Facility  ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                        ..     .  25
Innovations Facility    ...........  .                     ..  ..  .   ..  ..  ..  .   ..  .     .  25
International Cooperation   .........  ..  .                      .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .     .  25
E.  Building  State Institutional Capacity   ........  .                       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  26
Program   Management  ..........  ..  ..  .                         ..  ..  .   ..  ..  .  .     .  27
Improved  Textbook Development and Production   .....  .                              .  .  .   .  27
Improved Teaching  ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                            ..     .  28
Improved  Planning and  Management  .......  .                           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  28
Improved  Educational Research  and Evaluation  .....  .                          .  .  .  .  .   .  28
F.  Improving  Quality  and  Access in Primary  Education  .....  .                            .  .  .  .   .  29
Building  District Institutional Capacity   .......  .                     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  29
Reducing  Dropout   ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                          ..  ..      .  30
Improving  Learning  Achievement  .......  .                        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  31
Improving  Access  ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..                                .  35
'II.   PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . 36
A. Cost Estimates ................................. . 36
B. Financing Plan ................................. . 38
C.  State Investment Capacity, Additionality and
Recurrent Cost Implications  .............  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  .                                   .  38
Investment Capacity   ...............  ..  ...  ...  ...  .                                     .  38
Resource  Additionality  ...............  ...  ...  ...  ..                                     .  39
Sustainability  of Recurrent Costs   ........  ..  .                       .  .  .  .  .  .  ..     .  39
D.  Project Implementation  ...................  ....                                   ....  .           .  40
Supervision    ................................                                                 .  41
E.  Project Monitoring  and  Evaluation  ..........  .                           .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .     .  41
F.  Status of Preparation   ....................                               ....     ....     .        .  42
Informational Aspects: Studies Program    .......  .                         .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  43
Management Aspects  ..............  ...  ...  ...  ...  .                                       .  43
Educational Aspects   ..............  ...  ...  ..  ...  ..                                     .  43
Social Aspects  ........................                                 .....      ..         .  43
Civil Works Program             .............  ...  ..  ..  ...  ..  .                          .  44
G.  Disbursements   .................................                                                      .  44
H. Procurement .................................. . 46
I.  Audits and Accounting ............................ . 50
IV.        BENEFITS  AND  RISKS   ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..                                       .  51
A.  Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
B.  Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Financing  . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . .. . . . .. . ... .. . ... . 51
Implementation  .............................   52
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED .......................... . 56



iii
TABLES
3.1 - Cost by Component ...............................  36
3.2 - Costs by Category of Expenditure ....... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   37
3.3 - Procurement Arrangements ......... .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .    .  48
00
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Project Costs and Procurement
Annex 2 - Disbursement Profile
Annex 3 - Project Preparation Process
Annex 4- Project Preparation Studies
Annex 5 - Development Objectives, Indicators & Monitoring
Annex 6 - DPEP Policies, Strategies and Operational Guidelines
Annex 7 - Project Management
Annex 8 - Management Development Plan
Annex 9 - ST Education
Annex 10 -Education for Girls
Annex 11 -National and State Implementation Plans
Annex 12 -District Implementation Plans
Annex 13 -International Cooperation
Annex, 14 -Civil Works Plans
Annex 15 -Public Finances and Education Expenditures in the Six IDA DPEP States
Annex 16 -Supervision Plan
Annex 17 -Monitoring Report Formats
Annex 18 -Selected Documents in Project Files
MAP
Map of Project States and Districts



I



v
MIDIA: DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:    Government of India and the Governments of Assam, Haryana,
Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu
Amount:           SDR 180 Million (US$ 260.3 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Description:       The project would support the GOI District Primary Education
Program to build national, state and district managerial and
professional  capacity  for  sustainable  primary  education
development. It would support district-based programs aimed at
decreases in dropout, increases in learning achievement, and
improved access to primary education. Priority would be given to
female and SC/ST students through both targeting and special
strategies, and to enhanced community participation. The project
would include three components:
Building National Institutional Capacity to support, monitor and
evaluate a national, decentralized primary education development
program by establishing a strengthened framework for national
management and professional technical assistance.
Building State Institutional Capacity in six states to appraise,
supervise and manage district-level projects and institutions for
improving the quality and effectiveness of primary education and
to provide technical support for program management, textbook
development, improved teaching, improved planning and
management and research and evaluation.
Improving Ouality and Access in Primary Education in 23 districts
in 6 states through strengthened district institutional capacity,
strengthened community participation and awareness, improved
facilities, teacher in-service training, learning materials and
teaching aids, targeted interventions for girls, SC and ST students,
early childhood education and construction of new schools and
classrooms.



vi
Benefits and Risks: The project would be a first investment in a longer-term program
to improve the literacy and numeracy skills of the citizens of India,
particularly the rural poor, and hence increase their productivity
and social welfare. It would establish the institutional framework
necessary for the implementation of the District Primary Education
Program over the medium term. It would provide access to
primary education for an estimated 1.4 million additional children,
enable more than 1.5 million children to complete primary
education by reducing dropout, and improve the quality of
instruction and learning achievement for approximately 14 million
children. It is expected that 60 percent of children benefitting
from the project would be girls. Implementation risk is high
because the project would be supporting a newly created program.
Although policy and political commitment is high at the national
level, financial and managerial risks will need to be closely
monitored at both national and state levels. The project would
seek to address these risks through the development of project
monitoring systems, annual planning and budgeting exercises,
annual progress reviews involving all program donors, a program
of evaluation studies, and a mid-term  review.   Intensive
supervision would be provided by an expanded education team in
the Resident Mission.



vii
Estimated Project Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
------------- US$ Million---------
Build National Institutional Capacity           17.8        2.7        20.5
Build State Institutional Capacity              23.8        0.9        24.7
Improve Quality & Access in Primary Education
Build District Institutional Capacity        12.0        0.5         12.5
Improve Retention                            41.4         1.3        42.7
Increase Access                              93.7        3.8         97.5
Improve Learning Achievements                70.4        2.0         72.4
Subtotal Improve Quality & Access          217.4        7.7       225.1
TOTAL BASE COST                                   259.0       11.3       270.4
Contingencies                                   38.1        2.0        40.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                297.1       13.4       310.5
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
------------- US$ Million -------------
IDA              246.9       13.4       260.3
GOI               50.2        -          50.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST         297.1        13.4       310.5
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY    FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99    FY2000   FY2001   FY2002
Annual     8.0    32.3    35.7    42.6    45.8      42.3      33.6      20.0
Cumulative  8.0    40.3    76.0   118.6   164.4    206.7    240.3    260.3



viii
Economic Rate of Return:   Not Applicable.
Poverty Category:                 Program of Targeted Interventions. One of the project's
main objectives is to improve quality and access in primary
education for tribal populations, scheduled castes and girls.
*The project contains specific strategies for interventions
targeted for these groups.



INDIA
DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SUB-SECTORAL BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES
A. BACKGROUND
1.1       Substantial gains have been made in providing access to education to Indian
children over the past four decades; however, much remains to be done. Forty-eight
percent of India's population is still illiterate and the number of illiterates increased from
302 to 324 million between 1981 and 1991. While nearly all children have physical
access to a school, the holding and teaching power of most rural primary schools is very
weak.
1.2       About seventy-five percent of the 102 million children reported to be enrolled
in primary school attend one of 565,000 schools that offer the lower primary cycle of
education."' The balance are enrolled in primary sections of upper primary and
secondary schools. A child is expected to enter grade 1 at the age of 6 and to complete
eight years of schooling by age 14. States differ in administration and definition of the
steps on the educational ladder, but most have adopted the national model of five years
of lower primary plus three years of upper primary schooling; some states have adopted
a four plus three structure for lower and upper primary schooling. Together, lower and
upper primary cycles are referred to as elementary education. Lower secondary school,
also called high school, comprises two or three years and higher secondary consists of
two additional years of secondary education which is the Plus 2 stage.
1.3       While the stated gross enrolment ratio (GER) at the primary level is high,
102.7 percent in 1992, a proportion of the children reported as enrolled in grade 1 are
listed on school ledgers but do not attend beyond a few days. In addition, the reported
GER includes repeaters, who are not identified as such. The Government of India (GOI)
thus discounts the reported GER by 20 percent for planning purposes. Internal efficiency
is extremely low. Nearly one-fourth of children who are reported to be enrolled drop
out before reaching the second grade and about half drop out before grade five.
Although gaps in access and completion have been closing in recent years, nationwide
a disproportionate number of non-enrolled and dropouts are from the poorest households,
girls, members of Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs).
l' Elementary education in India consists of four or five years of lower primary
school, depending on the state, plus three years of upper primary schooling.



1.4       Approximately 250,000 non-formal education (NFE) education centers
provide equivalent primary education for an estimated seven million children in the 9-14
age group who do not enter or who drop out of school, and literacy programs are
provided for adults in selected districts.
1.5       Primary education in India is the joint responsibility of the central and state
governments, although most financing is provided by the States. In the Seventh Five
Year Plan (1985-1990) the states provided 63 percent of the plan resources invested in
primary education and 96 percent of non-plan recurrent costs.
1.6       After the National Policy on Education was issued in 1986,  central
government assistance for primary education expanded in the form of grants to states for
specific programs.   During the Seventh Plan, 70 percent of central government
assistance was delivered through Operation Blackboard (OBB), through which grants are
provided for an additional teacher and educational materials in single-teacher rural
schools. An important provision is that one of the two teachers in OBB schools should
be female. In addition, the GOI provides grants for non-formal primary education for
girls and working children and for improved primary teacher education through the
establishment of District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs) in the states.
DIETs are intended to provide training, curriculum and planning and management
support for elementary education at the district level. A centrally financed National
Literacy Mission (NLM) has been established to implement total literacy campaigns
(TLC) in selected districts.
1.7       Two autonomous national resource institutions are financed by the GOI to
provide professional and academic leadership in education. These are the National
Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT), and the National Institute of
Educational Planning and Administration (NIEPA). Both are located in New Delhi.
These institutions work closely with counterpart organizations in the states, providing
training, research and planning support.
B. ISSUES
1.8       The effectiveness and efficiency of primary education in India need to be
improved. Weak outcomes signal low returns to investment or, from another point of
view, failure to capture the significant benefits in poverty reduction, economic
development and social returns that primary education has been shown to generate,
internationally and in India. Addressing the principal constraints on sub-sector efficiency
and effectiveness through expanded and better investment is a significant challenge to
Indian education.
OUTCOMES OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
1.9       Despite substantial improvements since 1986, the outcomes of primary
education, as measured by literacy statistics, dropout and learning achievement are
unsatisfactory. Available data also suggest that there is considerable variation on these



-3-
indicators both between and within states, indicating a substantial degree of regional
inequity.
1.10      Ten large northern states have overall literacy rates ranging from 38 to 55
percent, and female literacy rates from 20 to 40 percent, all well below national
averages. By contrast, Kerala has achieved universal enrollment and comparatively high
levels of completion of the lower primary cycle. Near universal literacy has been
attained. Among other major states, dropout rates in grades 1-5 range from 21 percent
in Tamil Nadu to 66 percent in Bihar. Female dropout rates are five or more percentage
points higher than male rates in six large northern states and in Kamataka; they are lower
than male dropout rates in a number of smaller states.
1.11      Within state disparities on basic indicators are also marked. For example,
of Maharashtra's 29 districts, 20 have female literacy rates above the national average
of 39 percent, but the rates in 9 fall below the average. For Assam, the comparable
figures are 13 and 10 districts, respectively. In Haryana, 9 districts are above the
national average and 7 are below. Three of Tamil Nadu's 20 districts have female
literacy rates below the national average.
1.12      Many of the students who do complete primary school learn relatively little.
Project studies of student learning achievement in the second and final year of lower
primary school in seven states show that, on average, students have mastered fewer than
a quarter of the curriculum objectives. Learning achievement is very low even in states
that have achieved full enrollment and comparatively low dropout, such as Kerala and
Tamil Nadu.
1.13      The effects of these disparities are readily seen in social indicators. The sex
ratio is an indicator of gender discrimination. In a high literacy state such as Kerala,
there are 1016 females for every 1000 males, and the infant mortality rate is 28 per
thousand births. By contrast, in the low literacy state of Bihar there are 930 females for
every 1000 males, and the infant mortality rate is 117 per thousand births. Nationally,
household sample survey data show that completing primary education is associated with
significant improvements in contraceptive use, pre-natal care and child immunization
among rural women. On the basis of dropout rates alone, more than half of rural girls
are leaving school ill-equipped to take advantage of these important development
services.
SUB-SECTOR CONSTRAINTS
1.14      With the issuance of the Revised National Policy on Education and a
National Programme of Action in 1992, the GOI has accelerated central leadership and
support for primary education development. The challenges are substantial. Historically,
the ability of states to invest in primary education has varied widely, but limited federal
resources have not been well targeted to offset these variations.  The institutional
mechanisms needed to manage expanded investment and to provide technical leadership
have received little past attention. Reforms will now need to be carried out in a changing



-4-
institutional environment caused by the implementation by states of the Seventy-third and
Seventy-fourth amendments to the Constitution of India (1992) that provide for increased
responsibility on the part of elected local governments (Panchayat Raj institutions) for
social programs, including primary education. Having achieved the comparatively easy
objective of putting schools in reach of most children, reforms will need to address the
much less tractable problems of improving the quality of education in order to reduce
dropout and improve learning achievement, and to improve the equity of access to and
completion of primary education for girls, scheduled caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST)
students.
1.15      Historically Inadequate Financing.    With the introduction of new
economic policies in 1991, and the launching of the Eighth Plan in 1992, India has
substantially increased financing for elementary education.2' Projected Eighth Plan
investments in elementary education by the Government of India and the states would be
on the order of US$3 billion; in the Seventh Plan (1985-90), combined investment
totalled less than US$1 billion. This sharp increase in planned investment comes after
decades of gradual increases in both Plan (investment) and Non-plan (recurrent)
expenditures on education and, within education, on elementary education (Annex 15 -
Public Finances and Education Expenditures in the Six IDA DPEP States). Average
annual state expenditures on elementary education have risen from 5.2 percent of total
budgets in 1985/86 to 10.2 percent in 1990/91.
1.16      Recent trends are thus encouraging. However, the present primary education
system shows the effects of past under-financing. In real terms, the rate of growth in
expenditure per student at the elementary level was only 0.4 percent from 1980/81 to
1987/88, reflecting both the priority given to expanding enrollments and the continuing
growth of population at 2 percent annually. More than 90 percent of expenditures
continues to go to salaries. In consequence, expenditures on the quality of education --
in-service training, learning materials, maintenance of facilities, educational research and
development, system planning and management -- have been severely constrained.
Household survey data show that about 40 percent of dropout is explained by lack of
interest in education and by failure in school; both factors can be attributed at least in
part to the low quality of education. Very poor absolute levels of learning achievement
across the states provide a further indicator of poor quality.
1.17      The challenge for the balance of the century is thus to target substantially
increased resources on improving educational quality. This will require an enhanced
leadership and management role for the GOI in a complex federal system of education
in order to ensure equitable allocation of enhanced resources and to assist states in
developing institutional planning and management capacity at state and district levels.
2/ Most financial data is reported for elementary education, and not separately for primary education. Proportion
and relative changes in resources for elementary education, however, are reasonably accurate indicators of similar
resource shifts for primary education.



1.18       System Management. Prior to the National Education Policy of 1986, the
central government's role in primary education was marginal. States provided the largest
share of investment and recurrent cost financing, but, with few exceptions, states gave
low priority to primary education. State planning and management mechanisms were
poorly developed, and primary education systems were characterized by routine
administration of inadequate finances to districts, which in turn built and supervised
schools. Change and improvement in primary education was limited to small scale pilot
efforts in a few states.
1.19       Beginning in 1986, the central government has sought to expand its
leadership and financing role in basic education through national grants schemes and
mobilization of external assistance. The centrally sponsored grant schemes (OBB,
Nonformal Education, DIETs) focus on one element of the education delivery system.
They provide standard packages of inputs, regardless of the varying conditions of states
and districts and targeting is imprecise.  Other than DIETs, there has been little
investment in the development of district, state or national institutional capacity for the
planning and management of large scale education reform programs or for educational
evaluation and research. Implementation difficulties have reduced the effectiveness of
the OBB and NFE schemes.
1.20        External assistance has been mobilized for integrated state basic education
development programs in Bihar, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, and to expand the earlier
ODA-assisted project in Andhra Pradesh. In these projects, most of which have been
launched since 1990, the development of state institutional capacity has begun to receive
attention. Registered "societies"3' have been established to manage the flow of
resources and to provide a nucleus for the planning and management of reforms. In
Uttar Pradesh, a State Institute of Education Management and Training is being
established to provide technical planning, management and research services. In most
states, however, institutional development has yet to begin.
1.21       At the national level, capacity to finance and manage a sustained, large scale
program of financial and technical assistance to states for educational reform and
improvement has yet to be developed. The bulk of technical, professional training and
research resources of NCERT and NIEPA have been directed at secondary and higher
education. A 1993 national survey of more than 130 universities and social science
research institutions identified only four with any ongoing work on primary or
elementary education. Less than one percent of the publications of NCERT and NIEPA
have addressed issues in primary education. In the GOI Department of Education
(DOE), supervision of existing state primary-level projects and planning for initiatives
is being handled by a team of four persons, with assistance from a team of ten NIEPA
and NCERT faculty.
v Registered societies - separate legal entities registered under the Societies Registration Act of 1860 - have been
used in India to undertake educational, scientific, literary and charitable activities; they have are being used as
implementation entities for basic education projects in Bihar, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.



- 6 -
1.22      The size of the country, the diversity and complexity of the federal system,
and the scope of the task to be accomplished mandate the creation of a strong planning,
monitoring and management function within the GOI to assist in the development of state
institutional capacity and to support and supervise programs and projects aimed at
improving the quality of primary education.
1.23       Decentralization and the Role of Local Governments. The 73rd and 74th
Amendments to the Constitution of India (1992) mandate the creation of locally elected
governments in all states. States have latitude in determining the structure and functions
of these governments through enabling legislation. It is anticipated that such legislation
will be passed and elections for local bodies held in all states by 1995.
1.24       Primary education is to be one of the major areas of responsibility for elected
local governments. A committee of the Central Advisory Board for Education (CABE)
has recommended the functions to be performed at district, block and community levels
with respect to primary education. Long-standing national policy for the creation of
effective school/community organizations has been strengthened. The CABE report has
been endorsed by state ministers of educationA' In a nation of the size and diversity of
India, moving responsibility for primary education to lower levels of administration holds
considerable promise, as does expanded community involvement. However, patterns of
authority and financing are likely to vary across states and are at present undecided.
District-level tax-based financing is unlikely in most states in the near future. District-
level planning and management capacities are largely undeveloped. There are risks that
state education agencies would be unable to provide the technical support needed at lower
levels of government, and that changing patterns of fund administration may result in
inefficient administration of investment programs, including those for primary education.
1.25       Gaining the potential benefits of decentralization poses an additional
challenge to state and national education agencies. International experience shows that
effective decentralization requires not only real transfer of authority, but also training and
technical support to enable officials to carry out new responsibilities.
1.26      Education Quality.  While universal access to basic education remains
elusive, high primary gross enrollment rates suggest that the system has at least largely
caught up with the backlog of unenrolled children. However, expansion of facilities to
meet population growth, to improve equity of access for girls, SC and ST students, and
to reduce overcrowding in classrooms will continue to be needed. The major challenge
at this point is to improve internal efficiency and learning achievement in schools that
serve the 100 million children who appear on the enrollment ledgers at the beginning of
the school year.
1.27      The large scale, sample-based learning achievement studies conducted in 33
districts in seven states in the past three years support the conclusions of extensive
4 Report of the CAB Committee on Decentralized Mana2ement of Education. New Delhi: Ministry of Human
Resource Development, 1993.



- 7 -
observations of rural primary schools. The basic inputs for learning are found in most
schools across India: students, textbooks, a blackboard, and teachers. This is, by itself,
a notable achievement. However, as results demonstrate, it is not sufficient.
1.28      Students are poorly prepared for school. In low-literacy districts, two-thirds
or more of students are first-time learners from illiterate homes.  Early childhood
education (ECE) reaches about 40 percent of such children through the Integrated Child
Development Services (ICDS) and other state-run pre-primary education programs.
Research in India and elsewhere has demonstrated that high quality ECE improves
primary school attendance and learning achievement. But project learning achievement
studies failed to find a positive relationship between attendance in ECE as offered in
these districts and learning in school. Observations indicate that the potential of ECE is
constrained by inappropriate curricula and learning materials, untrained teachers, and
inadequate supervision.
1.29       The quality of school inputs is low. Textbooks are overly difficult, with
many students unable to read them; their publication quality is low, and state textbook
publication systems suffer, in varying ways and to varying extent, from inefficient
practices. While there are blackboards, consumable supplies and educational aids are
conspicuous by their absence and, when present, by low utilization. Although most
teachers are highly educated and have formal pre-service training, they have not been
trained for multi-grade teaching in rural schools. Less than 6 percent of teachers had
received any in-service training in 1986/87. In some states, weak supervision leads to
high rates of teacher absenteeism; in small schools, this results in high effective student-
teacher ratios and, too often, children without teachers. Buildings are poorly designed,
inadequately maintained, and largely unfurnished. According to a 1986/87 national
survey, 44 percent of lower primary schools did not have proper buildings; 66 percent
had no furniture for students; 74 percent lacked libraries; and 95 percent lacked toilets.
While the situation has improved in intervening years, conditions are still poor in many
places. Project baseline studies in three districts in Tamil Nadu, for example, revealed
that more than 90 percent of schools lacked toilets, a quarter lacked furniture for
students; in four districts of Assam, 80 percent of schools lack safe drinking water and
fewer than 10 percent have toilets. In such circumstances, it is not surprising that many
students lose interest in education, or leave school because of academic failure.
1.30      The challenge to national, state and district education authorities is thus to
improve the quality of basic services: pre-primary education, textbooks, learning
materials, teacher competencies, and facilities.   Nationally-sponsored research and
development work aimed at improved curricula and textbooks began in response to the
1986 Policy. Known as Minimum Levels of Learning (MLL), this program has
identified basic competencies in language, mathematics, and social/environmental studies.
With trials largely completed, the challenge is to implement MLL standards through
improved textbooks and in-service training of teachers. This will be a massive task,
requiring substantial investment and greatly strengthened institutional capacity for
implementation, for supervision and monitoring, and for evaluation and research to
determine the cost-effectiveness of alternative intervention strategies for achieving MLL.



- 8 -
1.31       Equity.  Priority given in the 1986 National Policy on Education to
increasing the enrollment of girls in lower primary school has begun to pay off. Female
enrollment grew at 3.7 percent annually from 1981 to 1991; male enrollment grew at 2.5
percent annually during the same period. However, the national Gross Enrollment Rate
for girls and boys in 1991 still stood at 88 percent and 116 percent respectively.
Nationally, average female dropout rates are roughly equivalent to boys. But despite
relative overall progress for girls, considerable variation across states on both enrollment
and dropout indices remains. In 1991, female GERs in lower primary school ranged
from 56 percent in Bihar to 128 percent in Tamil Nadu. Female dropout rates ranged
from zero percent in Kerala to 60 percent in Rajasthan and 70 percent in Bihar. Studies
of learning achievement, however, show relatively equal average levels of learning for
boy and girls. On three tests administered in 21 districts to students in the final year of
primary school, boys outscored girls 40 to 23, but the differences are small (Annex 5 -
Development Objectives, Indicators & Monitoring). In three districts in Haryana and one
in Karnataka girls outscored boys on all tests. Consistent with national policy, states
have sought to reduce gender disparities by reviewing curricula and textbooks to
eliminate gender bias and by increasing the proportion of female teachers.
1.32       Gross enrollment rates for SC boys are comparable to national averages,
though GERs for SC girls lag substantially. SC students also tend to score lower than
average on achievement tests, although again differences are small and SC girls outscored
the average for all girls on two or more tests in two districts in Maharashtra and one
each in Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. For the most part, SC students are enrolled
in integrated schools and speak the regional language. With the exception of Assam,
project states have sought to increase enrollment and retention through a variety of
incentive programs, including scholarships for SC girls and attendance allowances. Less
attention has been given to educational strategies such as teacher sensitization.
1.33       Enrollment rates for ST boys approach national averages, but those for girls
lag substantially. Dropout rates are higher than average for both boys and girls. ST
children outscored district averages about 45 percent of the time on learning achievement
tests, suggesting that they do not lag behind others on this indicator.5' Tribal children
are found both in integrated schools and in coherent tribal communities, the latter often
found in isolated locations with little access to social services.
1.34       As established by the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution, states and
local authorities are to provide instruction in the mother tongue at the primary stage for
all linguistic minorities, including tribal children. Policies seek both to preserve minority
languages and to facilitate participation in the dominant society and economy. However,
tribal languages are not widely used as the medium of instruction. In Assam, for
example, the instruction at primary level is offered in Assamese, Bengali, and Hindi; in
areas inhabited by the Bodo tribe, instruction is provided in the Bodo language. Other
5' It is possible, of course, that because of high dropout rates for all ST students and relatively low enrollment
rates for ST girls, the ST students tested in schools are relatively advantaged on such factors as academic potential
and home support for learning in comparison with the average of all students.



tribal languages are offered as second languages when requested by the parents of at least
10 students. In districts with heavy ST population concentration, autonomous District
Councils have the authority to choose the medium of instruction, and they often choose
the regional language.
1.35      Implementation of the policy also has been constrained by the presence of
over 400 tribal languages and dialects, 60 of which are written, inadequate financing, and
the lack of a coherent approach to policy implementation at national and state levels.
Project studies of ST education indicate that ST parents generally would prefer the use
of regional languages as the medium of instruction, but the baseline learning achievement
studies indicate that language difficulties are a major constraint on classroom processes
not only for ST children, but also in areas with multiple regional languages (Annex 4 -
Project Preparation Studies). Textbooks and learning materials have been developed in
relatively few tribal languages. Historic lack of access to and completion of primary and
secondary school severely limits the potential number of teachers able to provide
instruction in tribal languages, and the remote nature of many tribal communities reduces
the willingness of teachers to accept or persist in posts. The dominant role of Tribal
Welfare Departments in providing schools in tribal areas, with teachers and materials
provided by state education departments, has led to division of authority and
responsibility in states. Tribal Welfare Departments also provide scholarships and other
incentives for ST students.
1.36      Improving equity of access to and completion of primary education for girls,
SC and ST students thus remains a significant challenge.  The data on learning
achievement indicates smaller disparities than have commonly been thought to exist.
While the comparisons suggest that a degree of equality in learning has been achieved,
it is equality at a very low level of achievement. Rural primary students tend to learn
equally little, regardless of gender or caste.
1.37       For girls, the potential of intensified training for teachers, enhanced roles
for women in school/community organizations, and a greater role for women's
development groups in encouraging enrollment and attendance needs to be realized.
Similar strategies for SC students, especially SC girls, need to be developed and tested.
For ST students, a substantially increased state commitment to policy implementation,
backed by adequate resources and appropriately involving state Tribal Welfare
Departments, is needed. National technical and managerial leadership and support for
this effort will be important.
C. SUB-SECTOR OBJECTIVES AND PRIORITIES
POLICY
1.38      The Revised National Policy on Education (1992) and the 1992 Programme
of Action provide the basic policy framework for central and state investment in primary
education development. The objectives for primary education, in order of priority, are



- 10 -
to (a) reduce dropout, (b) improve learning achievement, and (c) expand access for
unserved students.  Girls, SC and ST students are to be given priority attention.
Decentralization of responsibility for planning and management of primary education
development programs to the district level, and strengthening of school/community
organizations, are advocated as means of developing locality specific strategies and
implementation plans and of increasing ownership of schooling by communities. The
policy framework is thus well-aligned with principal sub-sectoral constraints.
POLICY IMPLEMENTATION: THE DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
1.39       To achieve these policy objectives, the GOI has established the District
Primary Education Program (DPEP) as a cabinet-approved, centrally sponsored program
of financial and technical assistance to states and districts for primary education
reform.6' Developed through extensive consultations with states, DPEP would finance
primary education development programs in selected districts and the strengthening of
both state and national institutional capacity for planning, management and technical
support. It is the intention of the GOI to channel the bulk of external assistance to
primary education through the DPEP to ensure consistency with policy and equitable
allocation of resources.
1.40       DPEP Guidelines were issued in April, 1993. In a major departure from
previous vertical schemes focused on specific inputs, such as OBB, DPEP would provide
grant financing for integrated sub-projects developed at district and state levels aimed at
improving the quality of basic education services.  DPEP would thus emphasize
improved and expanded non-salary inputs for primary education; institutional
development; more and better textbooks and educational materials; improved classroom
teaching and facilities; strengthened community/school organizations; and expanded
technical and managerial support. Incentives and scholarship programs already in place
would continue to be financed by state governments outside of DPEP. (Annex 6 - DPEP
Policies, Strategies and Operational Guidelines).
1.41       Key managerial features of the program include: (a) targeting of resources;
(b) decentralized planning at the district level with substantial popular participation; (c)
appraisal of district and state proposals against DPEP criteria and categories of
assistance; (d) flexible implementation arrangements at the state level; (e) incremental
implementation and expansion based on performance; (f) intensive technical support and
supervision from strengthened national agencies and resource institutions; and (g)
substantially increased financing through the budget of the GOI DOE.
1.42       Targeting.  DPEP financing would be targeted to districts with female
literacy rates below the national average of 39 percent, as well as to districts where Total
Literacy Campaigns have generated substantial enrollment increases in primary education.
6 Policies and enhanced resource allocations for DPEP have been supported by IDA through the Program to
Strengthen the Social Safety Net (Credit 2448-IN).



- 11 -
1.43       Decentralized Planning. Proposals for DPEP financing would be developed
first by district planning teams, following DPEP criteria and guidelines, with technical
support from state and national agencies. Proposals for institutional development at the
state level to provide enhanced support to district projects would then be developed.
Parents, teachers, NGOs and education officials would be consulted and involved in the
preparation of district and state proposals.
1.44       Appraisal by DPEP. DPEP program staff would appraise both district and
state proposals against program criteria and guidelines. Appraisal would focus on
conformance with program objectives and priorities, and technical and managerial
feasibility. During appraisal, DPEP would assess the capacity of the states to finance
their share of the investment program and to sustain the recurrent costs of program
investments on non-plan budgets when sub-projects are completed.
1.45       Flexible Implementation Arrangements. States would establish registered
societies to receive, disburse and account for funds, and to manage the implementation
of sub-programs. These state implementation societies would be closely modeled on
precursors established to manage externally-assisted state projects in Bihar, Rajasthan and
Uttar Pradesh. Societies are governed by Councils representing key state and national
agencies, NGOs, and educationists, and are directly managed by Executive Committees.
1.46       Incremental Expansion Based on Performance. Participation in DPEP is
voluntary on the part of states.  Initially, a limited number of districts (3-5) and
investments in state institutional capacity would be considered. Assessment studies would
be conducted in each program district to establish baseline indicators for enrollment,
dropout and learning achievement.2' These studies would be replicated every third year
to gauge progress against program objectives. Funds would be released through an
annual review of district and state progress reports and proposals for the subsequent year.
Depending on progress, states would be eligible to propose additional districts for
financing over time. Major reviews of performance would be conducted following the
completion of the periodic assessment studies. DPEP could drop non-performing districts
from the program and, with appropriate appraisal, shift resources to other districts. It
is intended to launch the project in approximately 8 states that do not currently have
externally assisted basic education projects. These latter states, as well as additional
states, could apply for DPEP financing as the program expands.
1.47       Initially, DPEP would focus on building national, state and district
institutional capacity, and on reform of lower primary education. Once satisfactory
progress is being made at the lower primary level in low-literacy districts, states could
apply for financing of sub-projects aimed at upper primary education.
1.48       Supervision and Technical Support. The program would be managed by
the DPEP Bureau in the GOI Department of Education, which would be responsible to
2/ The designs methodologies of the baseline studies of learning achievement have been developed from the model
used in the UP Basic Education Project (Credit 2509-IN).



- 12 -
an empowered committee representing key GOI Departments, including Finance and the
Planning Commission (DPEP Project Board). The DPEP Bureau would be fully staffed
and equipped to provide appraisal for and regular supervision of state and district sub-
projects, to manage flow of funds and disbursements, to oversee procurement, and to
provide liaison with international donors. It would be supported by substantial technical
and professional consultant services. The DPEP Bureau would develop national technical
assistance, training and research and evaluation capacity through contracts with national
and state resource institutions.
1.49      Increased Flnancing. The Finance Ministry and the Planning Commission
have approved an increased allocation for primary education of US$650 million to the
DOE for implementation of DPEP over the balance of the Eighth Plan period. These
funds would finance 85 percent of district and state projects through grants, with the
balance being provided as additional allocations in state elementary education budgets
and, for national components and activities, the budget of the DOE.
IDA STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR INVOLVEMENT
1.50      Promoting economic reform for broad-based, efficient economic growth,
accelerating poverty alleviation and developing human resources are the focus of IDA's
country assistance strategy. Education development is central to strengthening human
resources, and primary education is a necessary foundation.  Low  educational
achievement, especially among the poor, Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and women
is a major constraint to their social and economic improvement. IDA's strategy for
education is to focus medium-term assistance exclusively on primary education, given its
underdeveloped status in India, its high returns, and its importance to the poor. IDA
assistance for this project would provide the financing and technical experience needed
to establish DPEP program management and technical support capacities, as well as to
initiate sub-projects in a substantial number of districts and states. Previous support for
basic education in India, consistent with the objectives of this program, has been
provided by IDA through the Social Safety Net Adjustment Program (Credit 2448-IN),
and through the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project (Credit 2509-IN). Without
continued IDA involvement, the proposed DPEP mechanisms for management,
supervision and evaluation would be less well developed, and the quality of sub-project
implementation reduced. IDA has advanced the analytical underpinnings of is work
through studies of student learning achievement and primary school effectiveness in Uttar
Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and a public expenditure review for education. The analytical
basis for the project is further strengthened by studies of education for girls, scheduled
caste and tribal students completed by Indian scholars, as well as the 1986/87 national
survey of education. Additional project studies have been carried out in collaboration
with UNICEF, NCERT and NIEPA during project preparation, including: baseline
beneficiary assessments in the six IDA DPEP states; textbook production, distribution,
and costs; girls' education; tribal education; teacher training, education and motivation;
and state education finance.



- 13 -
EXTERNAL FINANCING
1.51      The first substantial external assistance for primary education was provided
by ODA for a project in Andhra Pradesh; approximately US$35 million was provided
through 1992. UNICEF has disbursed around US$5 million from agency funds for the
Bihar Education Project, and has pledged to raise up to US$92 million more from other
donors. In Rajasthan, the Swedish International Development Authority has provided or
pledged approximately US$100 million for basic education projects. The Netherlands
have provided and pledged approximately US$30 million for Mahila Samakhya, the
women's empowerment program managed by the GOI DOE. IDA approved a credit of
US$165 million for the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project in 1993 (Credit 2509-IN).
Under the agreements of the Program to Strengthen the Social Safety Net (Credit 2448-
IN), the European Community (EC) has agreed to provide ECU 150 million as program
support to DPEP; this is the first program of external financing for DPEP. EC funds
would be released through two mechanisms. First, an annual fixed grant would be made
contingent on adequate budget provision for elementary education by the GOI; tranche
releases would be tied to issuance of annual budget documents. Second, grants of
approximately US$1.7 million would be made on the initiation of DPEP assisted district
sub-projects.Y   In addition, the EC program earmarks US$5 million for external
technical assistance and training. ODA and UNICEF have agreed to place future
financial assistance through the DPEP program. GOI would keep separate all donor
funds by earmarking them to different districts.
LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE
1.52      While India has long employed central grant programs as a mechanism for
GOI investment in state-managed development activities, the DPEP would incorporate
a number of structural innovations. The DOE has gained four years of satisfactory
experience with the use of registered societies for project implementation (Bihar,
Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh), and lessons learned have been incorporated into the model
Memorandum of Association and By-Laws that are to be used by each participating
DPEP state. For other innovations, including decentralized planning, formal appraisal
and supervision mechanisms, and performance management, there are few lessons of
experience, other than implementation difficulties associated with their absence. The
presence of these structural innovations underlines the need for phased start of the
program and effective monitoring and management.
1.53      From experience with previous vertical schemes such as OBB, the GOI has
learned the importance of integrated education development programs that address inter-
related constraints through coordinated efforts to improve basic services. Experience
with state projects in Bihar, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh has demonstrated the
importance of formal annual reviews and work program proposals, and the importance
1 These funds would not be used in districts assisted by other donors.



- 14 -
of focusing on improving the quality of ECE, textbooks and learning materials, and
strengthening teacher in-service training.
1.54         Experience with IDA-assisted Population and Human Resources Projects in
India has demonstrated the importance of strong project management arrangements,
annual budget financing sufficient to cover anticipated project expenditures, clear
mechanisms for the advance of funds and for timely completion of disbursement requests,
and supportive supervision from IDA, especially in start-up phases of projects. The
development of effective supervision activities by project agencies also emerges as
significant given the geographic scope of highly decentralized social service delivery
programs.
1.55         The program  would also draw on wider international experience in primary
education development.2' This experience substantially validates the DPEP emphasis
on ECE, improved textbooks and learning materials, intensified in-service teacher
training, and enhanced community participation in the operation of schools.
2' These lessons have been summarized by the World Bank in Marlaine E. Lockheed and Adriaan Verspoor.
Improving Primary Education in Developing Countries, New York: Oxford University Press, 1991. Additional
lessons of experience from World Bank Project Completion Reports and Audits, and ongoing lending experience
for primary education, have been discussed with the GOI and taken into account in program design. Finally, India
has played a leading role in follow-up international activities to the Jomtien Conference on Education for All,
including hosting of the regional EFA Forum in September, 1993 and the Large Country Initiative Conference in
December of the same year. Through these consultations the GOI has been able to systematically review lessons
being learned by other countries.



- 15 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. SCOPE AND STRATEGY
2.1         The proposed IDA credit is for a specific investment project that would
finance the development and operation of the DPEP Bureau in the GOI DOE to serve as
a financial and technical program intermediary organization, as well as an initial set of
state capacity building and district sub-projects in 23 districts (3-5 per state) in the states
of Assam, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.2' The number
of initial districts exceeds the minimum number agreed to by the World Bank and the
GOI in the Program to Strengthen the Social Safety Net (Credit 2448-IN). The proposed
credit would support the first of three phases of GOI DPEP, which focuses on
establishing DPEP as the principal financing and technical support mechanism for the
development of primary education in India, and testing intervention strategies in a limited
number of districts.
2.2         As a newly developed and complex program-" that would develop key
institutions while initiating district action programs, GOI DPEP would need to be
implemented in a carefully phased manner. In the first year of operation, GOI DPEP
would focus on the development of key national and state institutions and technical
support programs, and on initial start-up activities in district sub-projects based on seven
year investment plans and detailed first year implementation programs (Annexes 11 and
12 - National, State and District Implementation Plans). District sub-projects would
emphasize the development of district management capacity, initial in-service training
designs and  materials, and  limited  civil works.   Detailed  plans for expanded
implementation of the GOI DPEP would be prepared for review at the beginning of the
second and each subsequent year of program implementation. Annual reviews would be
conducted by the DPEP Bureau, with full participation of program donors.
2.3         The GOI DPEP would extend support to participating states in phases. In
Phase I, the proposed district sub-projects would be financed in Assam, Haryana,
Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu. These states have a combined
population of 243 million and contain 38 of the 242 districts, nation-wide, with below
average female literacy rates. ODA assistance to Andhra Pradesh, currently partially
present in all districts, would expand to full coverage, resulting in coverage of 50-52 low
female literacy districts.  In Phase II, GOI DPEP would be expanded to include
IO/ Financial assistance from other donors, including the European Community, could be used in other states and
districts.
L The GOI DPEP is referred to in this document as the program. IDA would support this program through the
DPEP project. The project comprises 7-year national, state and district sub-projects; each sub-project has an
annual work plan and budget (AWPB). The national sub-project supports several programs of technical
assistance and research.



- 16 -
additional states and additional districts in the initial set of states. In later phases, present
state projects could be considered eligible for expansion. At full expansion, the program
would cover an estimated 373 districts, including all falling below the average female
literacy rate, in 14 of India's largest states, with a combined population of 770 million.
(Annex 6 - DPEP Policies, Guidelines and Operational Procedures).
2.4       The proposed IDA credit (the proposed DPEP project) would finance
implementation of Phase I of the GOI DPEP. It would also finance preparation and
initial activities in states and districts proposed for Phase II of the GOI DPEP. It is also
anticipated that, depending on implementation progress, the proposed IDA credit would
be followed by a second operation to support Phase II of the GOI DPEP.
B. GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
2.5       The goals of national policy for lower primary education are to (a) build
institutional capacity, (b) reduce dropout, (c) improve learning achievement and (d)
increase access for unserved groups. Reducing the disparities in dropout, learning and
access for girls, SC and ST students has high policy priority. To address these goals,
the proposed credit would assist the GOI DPEP in achieving achieve key objectives at
national, state and district levels by the end of the project period. Specific objectives and
monitorable indicators have been established for the development of national program
management and technical assistance capacity and operations, for state capacity building
and for district sub-projects (Annex 5 - Development Objectives, Indicators &
Monitoring).
NATIONAL OBJECTIVES
2.6        The DPEP Bureau in the DOE would be fully established and functioning.
National technical assistance and research and development programs for development
of improved textbooks and learning materials, in-service teacher training, educational
planning and management, program evaluation and research, and ST education
development would have been established and provided substantial support for the
development of counterpart agencies in project states. A computerized school statistics
MIS would have been developed, tested and installed in all DPEP assisted states.
STATE OBJECTIVES
2.7        State Implementation Societies would be fully functioning, providing sub-
project preparation and supervision support to districts and reporting quarterly on
progress and expenditures. A new generation of textbooks based on MLL would have
been tested and put in use. Publication quality and distribution efficiency would be
improved.  Textbooks and learning materials would be available in major tribal
languages.



- 17 -
2.8       State Councils for Educational Research and Training (SCERTs), or
equivalent organizations, would be providing enhanced support for improved classroom
practices and teacher in-service training. State Institutes of Education Management and
Training (SIEMTs), or equivalent agencies, would be providing technical assistance and
training support for education staff at state and district levels. SCERTs, other state
research agencies, and NGOs would have completed evaluations of DPEP activities in
each state.
DISTRICT OBJECTIVES
2.9       Capacity Building. District sub-project teams wuuld be fully functional,
implementing sub-project activities and reporting quarterly on progress. DIETs would
be functioning, with augmented staff and equipment, providing support for planning and
management, teacher in-service training, development of learning materials, and program
evaluation.
2.10      Reducing  Dropout  and  Improving   Learning   Achievement.
School/community organizations would be fully functional for at least 50 percent of
schools, and dropout rates would be reduced to less than ten percent.  Learning
achievement in language and mathematics in the final year of primary school would be
increased by 25 percent over baseline estimates.
2.11      Improving Equitable Access. Enrollment disparities by gender and by caste
would be reduced to less than 5 percent.
2.12      Achieving these objectives equally for girls, SC and ST students would
reduce present disparities for those groups currently ranked lowest on key indicators.
For the 23 proposed district sub-projects, it is estimated that the program would enable
1,500,000 students to complete primary education who would otherwise have dropped
out, of whom 785,000 would be girls. An additional 1,400,000 places would be created
in primary schools or NFE classes. Learning achievement would be increased for an
estimated 14 million students (Annex 5 - Development Objectives, Indicators &
Monitoring).
C. PROJECT SUMMARY
2.13      The GOI DPEP is a centrally sponsored program of financial assistance to
states for primary education development investments that are planned and implemented
by state and district planning and management teams. The program would be managed
by the DPEP Bureau in the DOE, which functions as an intermediary organization to
identify, appraise and finance sub-projects proposed and implemented by state
governments. Sub-projects are appraised against a set of program eligibility and financial
criteria. Continuing eligibility of and financial allocations to sub-projects would be based
on annual reviews of implementation performance and work program and budget



- 18 -
proposals. In the third and sixth year of the project, impact on development objectives
would be measured.  Baseline levels of dropout rates, learning achievement and
enrollment have been established for each district sub-project, and monitorable indicators
of national and state capacity development have been established for state and national
sub-projects.
2.14       The GOI DPEP was officially established with approval by the Cabinet in
November, 1993. In the start-up stages of development the program has been managed
by a team in the DOE.  Over the past year the DPEP project development team has
completed a project cycle of identification, pre-appraisal and appraisal for 42 districts and
7 states.12' A program of national technical assistance to states and districts for project
preparation was organized in NCERT and NIEPA. A project studies program, including
sample-based beneficiary learning assessment studies through which more than 45,000
children were tested, as well as studies of the educational context and needs of girls and
ST children, was completed.'3'
2.15       The proposed IDA credit would assist in further development of the GOI
DPEP appraisal, financing, supervision and management capacity. On-going technical
assistance, research and development programs would be intensified and expanded. Funds
would be provided to sponsor DPEP innovations and for the preparation of additional
sub-projects.   The credit would  finance international fellowships and  technical
cooperation as designed and managed by the DPEP Bureau. The credit would support
a first phase of state sub-projects in Assam, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra
and Tamil Nadu aimed at strengthening capacities in education management, planning
and research, textbook and learning materials development and publication, and teacher
in-service training. The credit would also assist in the financing of 23 district sub-projects
intended to reduce dropouts, increase learning achievement and increase access to
primary education for unserved students in the same states. The proposed DPEP project
would finance educational materials, training, staff salaries on a declining basis,
consultant services, international fellowships and technical cooperation programs,
research studies, pilot projects, civil works and equipment. The proposed DPEP project
would have three components: (a) building national institutional capacity, (b) building
state institutional capacity, and (c) improving quality and access in primary education.
These components are described in the following sections (D, E, and F).
2' The GOI signed a grant agreement for program support of DPEP with the European Community in December,
1993; the GOI would apply these resources over time to districts in Madhya Pradesh.
JY Other completed study topics include state education finances, textbook production and distribution, and teacher
motivation and training.



- 19 -
D. BUILDING NATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
(Proposed Outlay -- US$20.5 Million)
2.16      The innovative nature of DPEP would require a management structure with
good policy access, substantial authority, a high degree of flexibility in appointing staff
and consultants, strong professional competence, and access to good information on
program activities, accomplishments and problems. To meet these requirements, the GOI
would establish the DPEP Bureau in the DOE and related governing and support bodies.
2.17      The credit would finance the formalization, expansion and strengthening of
the DPEP Bureau in the GOI DOE and associated national technical assistance and
research and development programs (Annex 8 - Management Development Plan). The
credit would finance salaries of additional staff on a declining basis, consultant services,
equipment, vehicles, and the costs of sub-contracts.
NATIONAL MANAGEMENT
2.18      The DPEP Bureau would serve as an intermediary organization to appraise,
finance and supervise state and district sub-projects according to established criteria and
procedures. The DPEP Bureau would in turn be assisted by an implementation support
group employed under contractual arrangements to the DOE (program technical services).
Through this contract, the DPEP Bureau would acquire substantial flexibility with respect
to appointment of temporary staff and consultants, including levels of remuneration. The
DPEP Bureau would be governed by a General Council, which would review policies
and progress annually, and a DPEP Project Board, which would be fully empowered for
program, financial and staffing approvals (Annex 7 - Project Management). The new
units would have significant staff continuity with project preparation teams.
2.19      Staff Continuity. To finance technical assistance to states and districts for
the preparation of sub-projects, and to appraise sub-project proposals, in 1993 the DOE
established a DPEP Project Development Team comprising a joint secretary and three
deputy secretaries, with support staff. A National Core Team made up of faculty from
NCERT and NIEPA, and consultants, was established to conduct project studies and to
provide technical training and support to national, state and district planning teams. Over
the course of 15 months these teams have led the development of proposals from 7 states
and 42 districts and completed an ambitious program of project studies. This work has
provided an extensive program of action training, through which the GOI and partner
institutions have gained experience with the conduct of large scale field research in
primary education and with project preparation and appraisal. Experience gained has
been the basis for the design of the GOI DPEP management structure and of the
proposed technical assistance and research and development programs.
2.20      This experience would be incorporated  into the proposed  national
management and technical assistance programs through continuity of staff.  The
experienced project development team would be appointed as the initial key staff of the
DPEP Bureau that would be established to manage the program. Proposals for national



- 20 -
technical assistance programs have been prepared by the NCERT and NIEPA faculty who
have provided these services during the project development process.
2.21      General Council. The General Council would provide policy direction to
the DPEP and facilitate center-state coordination; it would meet annually and be chaired
by the Minister of Human Resources Development. Members would include DPEP state
Ministers of Education, secretaries of affected central departments, and the Joint
Secretary of the DPEP Bureau.
2.22      DPEP Project Board. The General Council would be assisted by a DPEP
Project Board (PB), an empowered body assigned full financial and administrative powers
to implement the program. The broad functions of the PB would be to recommend
policies, consider annual work plans and budgets (AWPBs) of state and national sub-
projects, approve changes in norms for new program components and activities, promote
convergence of services, review DPEP progress, and provide guidance to the DPEP
Bureau.
2.23      DPEP Bureau. The DPEP Bureau, headed by a Joint Secretary, would be
responsible to the Project Board and General Council for the implementation of the
program within DPEP Guidelines and in agreement with donors. The DPEP Bureau
would have the responsibility and authority to appraise, supervise and evaluate district,
state and national sub-projects and to approve staff appointments to the program technical
services. It would comprise two units, with program and policy functions, staffed by
deputy secretaries.  The Policy Division would be responsible for servicing and
implementing the decisions of the PB, release and reimbursement of funds, maintenance
of accounts and compliance with procurement norms of donors. The Program Division
would supervise the work of the program technical services, be responsible for overall
coordination with states on implementation of DPEP, and represent the GOI on the state
implementation societies. The GOI has appointed the joint secretary, 3 deputy secretaries
and key support staff for the DPEP Bureau in the DOE. To ensure that implementation
procedures are well understood at national, state and district level, an implementation
manual has been prepared and reviewed by the Association.
2.24      DPEP Technical Services. The DPEP Bureau, assisted by full time senior
technical and professional experts on contract, supplemented as needed by short-term
consultants, would provide the key technical services needed for program management:
(a)  Appraisal: technical assistance and appraisal for state and district sub-
projects.
(b)  Supervision:  organizing DPEP supervision missions, coordination of
biannual joint supervision missions with program donors, assisting DPEP
Bureau state coordinators review procurement and disbursement activity, and
preparing reports.



- 21 -
(c)  Monitoring and MIS: monitoring and reporting on DPEP inputs, physical
targets, and implementation progress.
(d)  Finance and Procurement: supervision of procurement at national and state
levels.
(e)  Civil Works Inspectorate: supervision of civil works, identification and
development of improved school construction designs, and technical
assistance to states and district sub-projects.
(f)  Research and Evaluation:  establishing and monitoring research and
evaluation contracts with research organizations and individual consultants.
(g)  Technical Assistance:  establishing and monitoring national technical
assistance programs in cooperating agencies through work program and
budget and/or contract arrangements.
2.25      Program  technical services would also include technical, financial and
administrative supervision of agreements between the DPEP Bureau and agencies
implementing national technical assistance programs. A contract for local professional
and technical consulting services to support the DPEP Bureau has been prepared and pre-
authorized by the Association.
2.26      Flow of Funds. DPEP Guidelines require that total project costs be shared
between the GOI and the state in the ratio of about 85:15. The GOI share would appear
in the Annual Plan and budget of the DEO; the states' contributions would be provided
for in the Annual Plan budget of the education departments of the DPEP states.
Advances from the GOI to state societies would be made twice annually, on the basis of
district and state AWPBs prepared and appraised previously and evidence of appropriate
use of previously advanced funds. The Department of Education has released funds
sufficient for the first six months of operations to DPEP state implementation societies.
NATIONAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
2.27      The credit would finance educational materials, equipment, local and
international fellowships, training, and consultant services for the implementation of key
national technical assistance programs designed to develop prototype materials and
programs and to assist in the development of technical capacities in state agencies. A
program of international cooperation would be managed by the DPEP Bureau to assist
in the development of both national and state technical capacity. National technical
assistance programs would be implemented by NCERT and NIEPA on a project basis
through memoranda of understanding with the DPEP Bureau following standard GOI
procedures, and through contracts with individuals and other institutions. This approach
would give the DPEP Bureau arm's length control over activities and provide the
flexibility needed to modify the kind and scale of assistance provided as the program
develops.



- 22 -
2.28       Experience in developing the DPEP has shown that it is possible to develop
and implement assistance programs in tandem. Programs for MIS development, research
and evaluation, and education planning and management are largely independent activities
focused on largely separate elements of the system. The three programs focused on
classroom practices -- pedagogical improvement, in-service training, and ST education
development -- would need to be linked through coordination among teams, joint
activities, and exchange of products. Linkages would be coordinated by the DPEP
Bureau (paragraph 2.25).
2.29      The first three programs to be established would build on research and
development already underway at NCERT and NIEPA.2' In the first phase, activities
would focus on developing work programs and assessing best practice in India (Annex
11 - National and State Implementation Plans). Subsequent expansion of activities would
be based on the work of the first phase of the program. Annual progress reviews and
action plans would be discussed with IDA and other donors at each annual program
review.    Contracts with NCERT for the first two years of national research,
development and technical assistance services for (a) primary teacher in-service training;
and (b) program evaluation research and studies have been prepared and pre-authorized
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
2.30       Contracts would be developed and signed during the first year of the project
for additional technical assistance programs in pedagogical improvement, educational
planning and management and ST education development. At negotiations, the GOI
provided assurances that terms of reference and draft tender documents for technical
assistance programs for (a) pedagogical improvement, (b) educational planning and
management and (c) ST education development would be provided for IDA review by
January 15, 1995.
2.31       School Statistics MIS. Improving the accuracy and timeliness of school
statistics has high priority for monitoring the impact of DPEP reforms. Building on
work completed earlier, DPEP would finance a team of experts to develop core
specifications for computerized MIS systems for adaptation by states, ensure that state-
specific systems are compatible, develop prototype training courses for use in
implementing the new system at national, state and district levels, and assist in the
training of master trainers at state level, beginning in year 2 of the project.
2.32      Development of Teacher In-Service Training. States and districts face
massive in-service training requirements without access to best practice in India and
elsewhere. Some prototype materials and training designs have been developed by
NCERT, but have not yet been made widely available to states for adaptation and
translation into regional languages. DPEP would finance the establishment of a Training
Resource Group (TRG) in NCERT to undertake the following activities in collaboration
with state agencies and DIETS to improve classroom teaching through in-service training:
1' First year costs for the program for MIS development will be financed by a grant from UNICEF. IDA would
finance the MIS in subsequent years.



- 23 -
(a)  Identify best practices in in-service teacher training in India; evaluate designs
and materials; disseminate selected models to states.
(b)  Develop field-tested prototype teacher in-service training designs and
materials.
(c)  Assist states with the development of capacity for adapting prototype training
designs and materials, for developing state and district-specific designs and
materials, and for conducting formative evaluation activities aimed at
improving in-service courses.
2.33       Program  Evaluation and Research.  DPEP requirements for periodic
assessment of learning achievement and for evaluation of pilot programs and core
interventions would be met through the establishment of a national program for
evaluation, research and studies administered by the DPEP Bureau through a
memorandum of understanding with NCERT. The program would:
(a)  Improve the educational research and evaluation capacity of national and
state research organizations.
(b) Organize international conferences and study tours on primary education
research and evaluation.
(c)  Conduct or commission systematic studies and evaluations in primary
education.
(d)  Disseminate the results of studies to National, state and district management,
and internationally, through reports, seminars and newsletters.
2.34       Program for Improved Pedagogy. Very low levels of learning achievement
in reading and mathematics in Grades 2 have been documented by learning achievement
studies. Without basic competencies, students continue to do poorly in later years, as
documented by grade 4 and 5 achievement tests. While poor preparation for learning,
illiterate homes and teacher absenteeism no doubt contribute to poor achievement, highly
didactic classroom teaching, complex and difficult textbooks, and the absence of
appropriately graded syllabi and materials also contribute. Research and development
in teaching reading and mathematics in early primary grades and the creation of
supplementary teaching/learning materials are clearly needed. Revision of textbooks to
the developed MLL competencies is also needed to consolidate and extend the gains that
would be made from improved teaching in the early grades.  This program would
establish a team of scholars to:
(a)  Identify best practices within India; assemble learning materials and
information on pedagogical practices; disseminate best practices to states
through publications, seminars and training programs.



- 24 -
(b) Gain access to international research on teaching primary reading and
mathematics competencies through journals and participation in international
conferences and seminars; and disseminate new approaches through the same
channels.
(c)  Conduct research on reading readiness of children entering grade 1 and on
specific reading difficulties of children in grades 1 and 2; this research
would include analysis of achievement test scores to identify competencies
on which student performance is weak.
(d)  Develop research-based, field-tested prototype packages of textbooks,
auxiliary learning materials and teacher guides based on MLL and integrated
and active learning techniques for reading and mathematics skills
development in the early primary grades (Reading Skills and Comprehension
Enhancement - RSCE and Mathematics Activity Program - MAP).
(e)  Collaborate with the Teacher In-service Training Program  to provide
technical assistance to states and districts for the implementation of improved
pedagogy in relation to MLL.
(f)  Improve  the  design,  layout and  production  of  textbooks  and
teaching/learning materials.
(g)  Provide training and technical consulting services to assist with capacity
building for textbook and learning material development and publication in
state agencies.
2.35      Technical Assistance and Training in Educational Planning and
Management.  Experience gained in developing state and district sub-projects has
demonstrated the need to upgrade planning and management skills at the state and district
level. DPEP would finance a team of experts to assist state planning and management
units/institutions to develop competencies in the following areas through technical
assistance and training:
(a)  Compilation of education statistics.
(b)  District level planning, including civil works, intervention design, costing
and implementation planning.
(c)  Implementation of state and district school statistics information systems.
2.36      ST Education Development.   Faculty at NCERT and NIEPA have
conducted a number of studies of tribal education. These efforts would be intensified and
expanded to improve the implementation of national policy for ST education. This work
would involve various state institutions, such as the Tribal Research Institute in Assam
and the Indian Institute of Languages in Karnataka, as well as Tribal Welfare



- 25 -
Departments, in order to take advantage of existing expertise and local knowledge.
Planning for this program  is in very early stages.  Key decisions, such as the
organizational location of the program, would need to be taken in consultation with a
wide range of institutions.
PREPARATION FACILI1Y
2.37      In the start-up year of DPEP, priority attention would be given to
development of national and state institutions, and to the initiation of district sub-projects.
Preparation for the expansion of the program to additional states and districts would not
begin until the second year. While full financing of expansion sub-projects would not
be part of the proposed first credit, a facility would be provided to finance preparation
costs in non-project states and non-project districts. Costs of national technical support
and appraisal would be borne by the DPEP Bureau.  A facility of US$2 million is
proposed based on the actual costs of preparing the sub-projects proposed for the credit,
and estimated costs of first year start-up activities in 40 districts. At negotiations, the
GOI provided assurances that IDA concurrence would be sought for preparation of any
state or district sub-projects additional to the initial six states and 23 districts proposed
for the credit (with full appraisal by DPEP and IDA appraisal of a sample of proposed
state/district expansion sub-projects).
INNOVATIONS FACILITY
2.38      States have proposed a number of innovative but un-tested approaches to
improved primary education, including educational radio (Assam), reduction of
student:teacher ratios (Tamil Nadu) and expansion of block and district supervisory staff
(Assam, Karnataka). In addition, a number of core intervention strategies, including
ECE, would require pilot testing prior to adoption and replication. Other innovations are
expected to emerge from the experience of implementation. A facility (called the "Fund
for Innovations") would be managed by the DPEP Bureau, which would appraise
proposals from states and districts and commission independent evaluation studies through
the national program of research and evaluation. An initial amount of US$5 million to
finance contractual services is proposed for financing under the credit, which would be
shared between district, state and national levels. Thus, to encourage innovation on a
decentralized basis, innovation funds would be established with state implementation
societies (approximately $60,000 annually) and district implementation teams
(approximately $3,000 annually).
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
2.39      Strengthening technical collaboration in the development of primary
education would be an important element in the development of DPEP and similar efforts
in other countries. Four programs of intemational cooperation would be administered
by the DPEP Bureau: (a) intemational conferences hosted in India by DPEP;



- 26 -
(b) participation of Indian experts and officials in international conferences elsewhere;
(c) international study tours and participation in international training programs for
Indian officials and experts; (d) technical cooperation in the development of DPEP
through collaborative training programs in India and individual consultants (Annex 13 -
International Cooperation).
2.40      The DPEP Bureau would identify opportunities for international collaboration
in consultation with state implementation societies and national technical assistance
program teams on an annual basis. An annual plan for core international activities would
be approved by the Project Board as part of the annual work plan and budget review.
In addition, the DPEP Bureau would draw on the program to respond to opportunities
and needs that may arise during any program year.
2.41      The credit would finance fellowships, training tuition fees, consultant fees,
and travel and per diem for this project element.
E. BUILDING STATE INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
(Proposed Outlay US$24.7 Million)
2.42      State governments would be responsible for financing approximately 15
percent of annual project expenditures through the state education budget, for appointing
district sub-project directors and key staff, and for implementing state and district sub-
projects through state implementation societies. Substantial capacity for implementation
has been developed in states and districts through sub-project preparation. To ensure
rapid start-up of project activities, state governments have designated all district sub-
project directors and key staff and included in FY94/95 state budgets earmarked funds
for DPEP sufficient to cover first year state financing obligations.
2.43      The capacity of state implementation societies to appraise and supervise
district sub-projects would need to be further developed from the base developed during
project preparation. In addition, state governments presently operate a variety of
institutions and programs with potential to provide management and technical support for
district sub-projects. Expanding and developing the capacities of these agencies and,
where necessary, creating new ones, would be important to sustained implementation of
DPEP over the medium term. Technical support for state capacity building would be
provided by national technical assistance programs.
2.44      Preliminary state proposals were reviewed by the GOI and IDA at pre-
appraisal. As expected, there was considerable variation across states. Based on these
reviews, the GOI has decided that in initial phases states should focus capacity building
investments in five key areas: (a) program management, (b) textbook development, (c)
improved teaching, (d) improved planning and management, and (e) education research
and evaluation.



- 27 -
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
2.45      DPEP Guidelines mandate the establishment of registered societies in each
state to receive, disburse and account for program funds, to manage program
implementation, and to monitor and report on progress. (Annex 7 - Project
Management). Societies have been registered in all six project states using model
Memoranda of Association and By-Laws based on those used for the Uttar Pradesh Basic
Education Project. These have been reviewed by IDA against managerial and legal
criteria. Common accounting, auditing, personnel and procurement regulations would
be adopted by all societies.  Financial, personnel and procurement regulations as
approved by IDA have been adopted by all state implementation societies. An internal
audit function has been established in each society, and accounts would be audited both
by an independent chartered accountant satisfactory to IDA and by the Controller and
Auditor General of India (CAG).
2.46      While there would be some variation across states, implementation societies
would have academic and administrative functions modeled on the DPEP Bureau. Key
staff would include the State Project Director, and Unit Heads for Civil Works, Planning
and Monitoring, State Programs, District Programs, and Finance, Monitoring and
Accounting. Societies would implement state sub-projects and supervise district-level
sub-projects through AWPBs for cooperating state agencies and district implementation
teams, and through contracts for services with NGOs, consulting companies, and
individuals. To assist with rapid and effective project start-up, executive committees of
state implementation societies have: (a) designated officers of the Society; (b) approved
Society staffing plans and key appointments including appointment of state project
directors and drawing and disbursing officers; and (c) opened bank accounts with
authorized interim procedures for disbursement and withdrawal of funds.
2.47      The impact of national decentralization policy on fiscal and administrative
relationships between states and local governments is uncertain. As primary education
is to be an area of increased responsibility for local governments, the implementation of
DPEP could be affected. At negotiations, the GOI provided assurances that the project
would be implemented in accordance with the DPEP Guidelines and that proposed
changes in DPEP Guidelines would be discussed with IDA.
2.48      In support of capacity building at the state level, the credit would finance
limited civil works, furniture and equipment, vehicles, consultant services, incremental
operating costs, and salaries on a declining basis.
IMPROVED TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCIION
2.49      Based on the findings of a project preparation study, States would take steps
to improve the quality and efficiency of textbook development, production and
distribution. Action programs for each state were reviewed by IDA at appraisal. (Annex
5 - Development Objectives, Indicators & Monitoring). The nature of these programs
would vary depending on current status. However, common elements would include: (a)



- 28 -
preparation of a new generation of textbooks based on MLL; (b) field tryout of textbooks
prior to publication; (c) improvements in textbook design, illustration, layout and
durability; (d) improvements in distribution efficiency through computerization of stocks
and, in a number of states, an expanded role for private sector distributors; and (e)
professional training for textbook agency staff. Technical support would be provided
b the national program to improve pedagogy.  At appraisal, the GOI and the states
provided textbooks systems development proposals, including first year work plans and
budgets. The credit would finance equipment, training, and consulting services.
EIPROVED TEACHING
2.50      With support from  national technical assistance programs, SCERTs or
equivalent organizations would strengthen their capacities to support the development of
improved classroom teaching models and teacher in-service training. A variety of
approaches would be employed to respond to differing situation of states. (Annex 5 -
Development Objectives, Indicators & Monitoring). State programs would have in
common the following elements: (a) provision of training and technical assistance to
DIETs; (b) adaptation of national prototype training and classroom materials in regional
languages; (c) training of master trainers; (d) adaptation, development, testing and
dissemination of ECE materials; (e) in cooperation with Tribal Welfare Departments and
other concerned agencies, development of learning materials in tribal languages. At
appraisal, the GOI and states provided proposals for improving teaching for IDA review,
including first year work programs and budgets. The credit would finance limited civil
works, furniture and equipment, vehicles, consultant services, educational materials,
training and fellowships, and incremental staff salaries on a declining basis.
IDPROVED PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
2.51      SIEMTs or equivalent agencies would be established and staffed to provide
technical assistance and training in education planning, management and monitoring to
state and district education staff. These agencies would generally be responsible for
implementation of the improved school statistics MIS system in states and districts.
(Annex 5 - Development Objectives, Indicators & Monitoring). At appraisal, the GOI
and states provided proposals for improving state planning and management capacity for
IDA review, including first year work programs and budgets. The credit would finance
civil works, equipment and furniture, vehicles, educational materials, consumable
supplies, training, consultant services, incremental operating costs, and salaries on a
declining basis.
IMPROVED EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH AND EVALUATION
2.52      With training and technical support from the national program on program
evaluation, research and studies, SCERTs would be strengthened and expanded to
conduct program evaluation and research studies. In the middle stages of the project
these agencies would in turn assist DIETs to develop similar capabilities (Annex 5 -
Development Objectives, Indicators & Monitoring).  The credit would finance civil



- 29 -
works, equipment and furniture, vehicles, educational materials, consumable supplies,
training, consultant services, incremental operating costs, and salaries on a declining
basis.
F. IMPROVING QUALITY AND ACCESS IN PRIMARY EDUCATION
(Proposed Outlay US$270.4 Million)
2.53      District sub-projects have been developed by district planning teams with
extensive consultations with beneficiaries, NGOs and education officials against DPEP
objectives and guidelines (Annex 3 - Project Preparation Process). While there is
substantial variation of approach and emphasis across different intervention strategies,
a common core of activities has emerged from the bottom-up planning process. It is the
intention of the GOI to emphasize high quality start-up of these core activities in the first
phase of the project, with a focus on software and system development. Where districts
have proposed large scale start up of new activities, DPEP would finance pilot programs
through the Innovations Fund and studies to ensure quality and cost-effectiveness.
Progress would be carefully monitored through national and state supervision, and
activities controlled through annual reviews and work plans.
BUILDING DISTRICT INSTITUMONAL CAPACITY
2.54      District Sub-Project Management.   District sub-projects would be
implemented by District Project Committees (DPCs), chaired by the District Collector
or equivalent. The DPC membership would draw heavily from the planning teams that
developed sub-project proposals. While the exact organizational structure would vary
from state to state in keeping with different administrative structures at the district level,
each DPC would include the senior education official in the district, the DIET principal,
senior officials from key agencies and programs such as Public Works, Tribal Welfare
and ICDS; NGO representatives; and leading educationists and teachers (Annex 7 -
Project Management).
2.55      District sub-project directors would be appointed by the Executive Committee
of the state implementation society and serve as member secretary of the DPC. DPCs
would be responsible for the implementation of district sub-projects. They would receive
advances of funds from state implementation societies against AWPBs approved by the
state society and by DPEP. Funds would be maintained in separate accounts by the
district sub-project director.  Funds would further be advanced to schools and
communities as required by individual sub-projects, where they would be maintained in
separate dual-signature accounts for co-signing with the chair of the DPC and the district
sub-project director.
2.56      The work of the DPC would be supported by staff appointed and financed
by the state implementation society. These would include qualified accountants, civil
works engineers and computer specialists. The new school statistics MIS system would
be installed at the district level through purchase of equipment and training.



- 30 -
2.57      In support of district-level capacity development, the credit would finance
limited civil works, vehicles, equipment, educational materials, consumable supplies,
training, consultant services, incremental operating costs and salaries on a declining
basis.
2.58      District Institutes of Education and Training. DIETs would be developed
as the principal technical and professional resource agency for training, materials
development, planning and management for district sub-projects. The work of the DIETs
would be supported by State Councils of Educational Research and Training. DIETs
have been established or initiated in 17 of the proposed 23 districts. The remaining
DIETs would be established under the central scheme of the DOE. Where DIETs are
not yet in place, their functions would be carried out by existing teacher training
institutes and colleges while DIETs are being established.
2.59      The GOI has recognized that the standard model for DIET organization,
staffing and equipment is inadequate for the support requirements of DPEP. In addition,
in some states, substantial enhancement of DIET physical facilities would be needed. At
appraisal, the GOI provided for IDA review a plan for the augmentation of DIETs
needed to support DPEP. At negotiations, the GOI provided assurances that DIETs
would be established, fully staffed and functioning in all project districts by January 31,
1996. The credit would finance civil works in selected DIETS, equipment, vehicles,
consultant services, educational materials, consumable supplies, incremental operating
expenses and salaries on a declining basis.
2.60      Pilot Projects in Strengthening School Supervision. Districts in two states,
Assam and Karnataka, have proposed to finance an expansion of supervisory staff at
district and block levels under DPEP. While aware of the potential benefits of improved
school supervision, the GOI and state governments are also cognizant of the possibly
significant recurrent cost implications of such expansion. DPEP would therefore finance
pilot projects from the Fund for Innovations (paragraph 2.38) at the district level to test
the cost-effectiveness of this approach. These pilot projects would be carried out from
the third year of the project.
REDUCING DROPOUT
2.61      Improvements in the quality of educational services, including expanded
ECE, are expected to contribute to the reduction of dropout. In addition, districts would
strengthen school/community organizations, improve school facilities, and carry out
awareness campaigns focused particularly on girls, SC and ST students.
2.62      Strengthening School/Conumunity Organizations. All participating states
have in principle established school/community organizations as called for under the
Revised National Policy on Education (1992). These organizations, variously known as
Village Education Committees, Parent-Teacher Associations, or School Management
Committees, are expected to oversee the operations of schools and NFE centers, conduct



- 31 -
annual surveys of village children to identify non-enrollers and dropouts, and to
encourage parents to send their children to school and keep them there.
2.63       These organizations function with varying degrees of effectiveness.  In
Kerala and Maharashtra, with long traditions of community involvement in schools, they
meet regularly and are effective in their tasks. In other states, surveys show that they
meet infrequently and are less effective.
2.64       States have defined the functions of community/school organizations and their
membership, including reserving at least one-third of places for women. To improve
effectiveness, states and districts would provide training and supervision support.
Depending on local circumstances, additional activities, such as micro-planning and
awareness campaigns may be entrusted to these organizations.
2.65       The proposed credit would finance training, educational materials and
consumable supplies for strengthening community/school organizations.
2.66       Improving Facilities. The dilapidated condition of a large proportion of
rural schools, combined with the absence of toilets and water supply, make school an
unattractive place, especially for girls. Repair and rehabilitation of existing schools,
along with the installation of toilets, water supply, and electricity, is expected to make
a major and visible contribution to the quality of services, and hence to increased
retention in schools. These civil works programs would be variously implemented by
community/school organizations and block-level public works departments. (Annex 14 -
Civil Works Plans). The proposed credit would finance civil works, equipment, costs
of electricity connections, and professional services as well as funds needed during the
life of the project for the maintenance of all buildings and equipment provided by the
project. At appraisal, the GOI provided complete civil works plans and first year work
programs and budgets for each participating state and district.
2.67       Awareness Campaigns. Popular participation in the development of district
sub-projects has raised awareness among beneficiaries of impending improvements in the
quality of schooling. Building from this base, a variety of awareness building activities -
- campaigns, community meetings, fairs -- would be undertaken to increase awareness
of the program and the benefits of to communities and schools. Emphasis would be
given to the importance of keeping children, especially girls, SC and ST students in
school.  The proposed credit would finance educational materials, supplies, and
consultant services.
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
2.68       Improving the quality and effectiveness of classroom instruction has the
highest priority in district sub-projects, not only to improve learning achievement, but
also to increase retention. Support from national and state technical assistance programs
and from DIETs would be centrally important to sustained improvements. The core
activities would be: (a) development of teacher in-service training as the principle means



- 32 -
of introducing improved classroom practice, new textbooks, and new materials for
teaching language and mathematics in early grades; (b) expansion of the variety of
learning materials and teaching aids in schools; (c) development and implementation of
targeted interventions for girls, SC and ST students; and (d) careful expansion or
introduction of ECE through pilot programs.
2.69       Teacher In-Service Training. Most of the little in-service training that has
been provided to primary teachers has been delivered through residential programs of
limited scope, often as means of implementing standardized, nationally-developed
"packages" focused on limited competencies. DPEP would radically transform India's
approach to in-service training by developing the training systems and infra-structure
needed to make training a continuous process based in classrooms and schools.
2.70       Three core activities would be implemented to establish the new in-service
training systems: (a) development of initial designs and systems for training trainers and
teachers; (b) development of the physical infrastructure needed to bring training to the
block and school cluster level; and (c) expansion of designs and materials to incorporate
MLL textbooks and classroom practices in later stages of the project.
(a)  Initial designs and materials. Prototype training designs and materials for
school-based in-service training have been developed and tested in several
states by the Department of Teacher Education at NCERT. Through the
national program to improve in-service training, these materials would be
further developed and provided to state agencies as prototypes during the
first year of the project. This first generation of materials would focus on
the competencies required for multi-grade teaching and for teacher
construction of teaching aids. States would adapt these materials as needed
and translate them into regional languages. With the assistance of the
national program, master trainer programs would be developed to train
DIET faculty and other teacher educators. Master training teams would test
materials and approaches on a trial basis in districts, using the facilities of
DIETs and Teacher Training Institutes.
(b)  Training infrastructure. Districts would construct, equip and staff Teacher
Resource Centers at the block level and, where facilities are not available in
secondary schools, simple cluster training centers, each serving 10-15
schools. Construction of these facilities would be completed by the second
year of the project. Facilities would be staffed by experienced primary
teachers, in some cases retirees, who would receive induction training with
initial master trainer materials. During the second and third year of the
project these expanded in-service training systems, with technical support
from DIETs and SCERTs, would focus on multi-grade teaching, teaching of
reading and mathematics in the early grades, and teacher preparation of
educational aids. Training would be delivered in block and cluster facilities,
and in schools.



- 33 -
(c)  Expansion to MLL. New MLL textbooks should become available in the
third and fourth year of the project. Prototype trainer and in-service training
materials for the introduction of MLL would be developed by the national
in-service training program  in cooperation with state agencies.  These
materials would form the basis for an expanded second phase of in-service
activities.
2.71      In the final years of each district sub-project, emphasis would shift again to
continuous professional support for teaching delivered in schools by cluster staff.
Periodic refresher and upgrading courses for cluster trainers would be held at the block
level, with support from fully functioning DIETs. All new teachers would complete the
basic in-service courses.  Needs for training in additional competencies would be
identified by cluster and block trainers. With support from SCERTs, DIETs would
develop additional programs and materials.
2.72      SCERTs and the National In-service Program would cooperate throughout
the process to identify best practices and innovations for dissemination throughout India.
2.73      The proposed credit would finance civil works, equipment, furniture,
vehicles, training, consulting services, educational materials, consumable supplies,
incremental operating costs, and salaries for block and cluster staff on a declining basis.
2.74       Learning Materials and Teaching Aids. Evaluations of OBB have shown
the weaknesses of delivering pre-determined packages of teaching aids to schools, without
training and without involvement of teachers and local education staff. Under DPEP,
districts would instead provide annual grants to school/community organizations for the
purchase of consumable supplies and materials. Grants of Rs. 2000 would be authorized
initially; the amounts would be reviewed periodically by the DPEP Bureau. In addition,
annual grants of Rs. 500 would be made to each primary teacher in project districts to
purchase materials to use in preparing teaching aids. Schools and teachers would keep
records and receipts for purchases. In-service training in the development of teaching
aids would be provided.
2.75       Targeted Interventions for Girls, SC and ST Students.  Studies of
constraints on education for girls and ST students were completed by project appraisal.
The findings of these studies would be discussed with state and district planning teams
during the first year of the project. On the basis of these discussions, intervention
strategies would be adjusted and/or developed for initial implementation in the second
year of the project. At negotiations, the project states provided assurances that revised
strategies for each state and district for improving primary education for girls and ST
students, together with implementation plans and budgets for the second year of the
project, would be presented for IDA review by January 15, 1995.
2.76      In the interim, states and districts have proposed a variety of activities to
improve learning achievement for girls, including gender review of curricula and
textbooks and teacher sensitization through training (Annex 10 - Education for Girls).



- 34 -
ECE programs would also contribute (paragraph 2.80). All states have policies
mandating appointment of women to at least 50 percent of new teaching posts; in Tamil
Nadu, women would be appointed to all new primary teaching positions.
2.77       Scholarship programs for SC students, especially girls, are operating in each
project state. These programs would not be financed by the proposed credit, but would
continue with state financing.
2.78       Implementing national policy on education for tribal children would require
measures to ensure that they have equitable access to basic education services as well as
enhanced efforts to develop materials in tribal languages and to develop strategies to
increase the ability of teachers in tribal areas to teach in the language of the home.
District proposals have primarily emphasized the establishment of residential schools for
tribal children in order to overcome the constraints caused by geographic isolation of
tribal communities; 5-6 such schools have been proposed.  At negotiations, the
governments of project states provided assurances that states shall allocate Project
resources for tribal students at least in proportion to the share of the tribal population in
the district population, and shall provide for IDA review all proposals for the
establishment of ST residential schools, complete with school maps and evidence of
demand for such schools on the part of isolated communities, prior to the authorization
of construction.
2.79       For targeted interventions, the proposed credit would finance educational
materials, consumable supplies, training, and consultant services. The credit would also
finance civil works, furniture and equipment for residential schools that may be approved
by IDA in accordance with paragraph 2.78 above.
2.80       Pilot Tests for Early Childhood Education. ECE is a an important DPEP
strategy to improve readiness to learn, especially for children from illiterate households.
ECE is also expected to contribute to enrollment and retention for girls by providing an
alternative source of sibling care during school hours.
2.81       ECE is provided in all project states by the ICDS. National evaluations have
found that participation in the ICDS program improves retention in primary school.
However, the timings of schools and ICDS Anganwadi Centers, which provide ECE and
supplementary nutrition, rarely match, reducing the potential contributions of the
program for sibling care. In addition, Anganwadi Centers serve a population of 1000;
this catchment area can include as many as three schools, only one of which is likely to
be located within easy walking distance. Moreover, ICDS coverage is not universal in
any states; in some, like Assam, coverage is very low. Finally, the ECE component of
ICDS is unevenly implemented across the districts, raising concerns for quality.
2.82       Because of these factors, districts have proposed to expand or establish pre-
primary education programs for the 3-6 age group, often on a large scale. Existing
programs have rarely been evaluated systematically, and new programs would involve
the creation of materials, training and supervision systems, and facilities. For these



- 35 -
reasons, the GOI would require that expanded and new ECE programs be first developed
and tested on a pilot basis, with concurrent evaluations.  Proposals for ECE pilot
programs and evaluations would be considered by the DPEP Bureau and Project Board
for financing from the Fund for Innovations (paragraph 2.38), beginning with the second
year of the project.  The proposed credit would finance educational materials,
consumable supplies, training and consultant services, furniture and equipment, salaries
on a declining basis and limited civil works.
IMPROVING ACCESS
2.83      Although reducing dropout and improving learning achievement would have
priority under DPEP, the program would also finance expanded access through the
construction of new schools and classrooms. Approximately 470,000 new places would
be created in new schools and classrooms. Construction would be variously undertaken
by communities and state construction agencies (Annex 14 - Civil Works Plans). The
credit would finance civil works, furniture and equipment, and the salaries of additional
teachers required in new facilities on a declining basis. The credit would also finance,
on a declining basis, the salaries of new teachers required by enrollment expansion
resulting from project activities. The need for these latter appointments would be
documented by each district on the basis of initial enrollments on a school-by-school
basis, and would be authorized by DPEP from the third year of the proposed project.
New teacher posts in schools not constructed or expanded with project financing would
be eligible for financing from the third year of the project only on the basis of evidence
of school enrollment increases provided by states.
2.84      The proposed credit would also support the establishment of non-formal
primary classes as alternatives to formal schooling for isolated small communities and
for working children. An estimated total of 6,000 classes providing approximately
900,000 student years of instruction would be opened over the life of the project. States
and districts would not be required to follow the norms of the present GOI funded NFE
program, but would be encouraged to develop locally-specific options and strategies,
including those that would involve NGOs in service delivery.



- 36 -
IH. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. COST ESTIMATES
3.1          Summary of Costs. The total cost of the project, including duties and taxes,
is estimated at about Rs. 11,941.4 million or US$310.5 million equivalent. The net of
tax cost of the project would be US$300.5 million.  The breakdown of costs of the
proposed project by component and categories of expenditure for the project is
summarized in Tables 3.1 and 3.2 below.
Table 3.1 - Cost by Component
(Rupee Million)          (SUS Million)        %   % Total
Foreign Base
Component                  Local   Forei   Total    Local   Foreign Total   Exchanre Costs
BuLid National Insitutional Capacity    570.0   86.9   656.9  17.8    2.7   20.5   13%   8%
Build State Inmtitutional Capacity  761.7   30.2   791.9  23.8    0.9   24.7   4%    9%
Improve Qualky & Accm in Primary Education
Build District IntitutionalCacity    383.7   15.2   398.9  12.0    0.5   12.5   4%    5%
ImproveRetention           1,324.0  42.0  1,366.1    41.4    1.3   42.7   3%   16%
Increw Accem               2,998.0  122.2  3,120.2   93.7    3.8   97.5   4%   36%
ImproveLeamingAchievements    2,251.8   65.6  2,317.4  70.4    2.0   72.4   3%   27%
Total BASELINE COSIS          8,289.2  362.2  8,651.4    259.0   11.3  270.4   4%   100%
Physical Contingencies      649.3   36.2   685.5     20.3    1.1   21.4   5%    8%
Price Contingencies        2,496.7  107.9  2,604.6   17.8    0.9   18.7     -    7%
Total PROJECT COSTS          11,435.2  506.2 11,941.4    297.1   13.4  310.5   4%   115%
3.2          Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated costs for civil works are based on
current unit costs for construction which vary from US$70 to US$90 per square meter
of gross floor area of construction. These costs are reasonable for comparable IDA-
assisted construction in India. Costs of professional services for design reflect the scale
of fees established for similar services provided by local architectural consulting firms.
Costs for supervision of construction reflect the standard establishment charges of the
Public Works Department (PWD) in each of the project states. Estimated equipment,
vehicles and educational materials costs are product of lists developed by GOI and the
project states, and include import duties and taxes. Furniture and consumable material
costs are based on GOI and the state estimates and reflect current prices. Estimated costs
for the salaries of additional staff are based on basic pay scales including standard
allowances for social and other benefits applicable in the project states.
3.3          Customs Duties and Taxes.  All imported goods are subject to customs
duties and taxes. The estimated cost of the project includes import duties and taxes
estimated to cost at about US$10.0 million.



- 37 -
Table 3.2 - Costs by Category of Expenditure
(Rupee Million)                   (SUS Million)              %    % ToWa
Foreign Ban
Local   Fomrie      Total       Local      Forejia   Tota     Exchae  Comb
Invedmoent Coda
Civil Works                         1,578.0    156.1   1,734.0        49.3       4.9      54.2      9%      20%
Fumiture                              230.7      -       230.7         7.2       -         7.2       -       3%
Equipment                             211.3      70.4    281.7         6.6       2.2       8.8     25%       3%
Vehicles                               30.9      10.3     41.2          1.0      0.3       1.3      25%       -
Books & Libraries                     403.0      21.2    424.2         12.6      0.7      13.3      5%       5%
Local Consulants                      504.4      -       504.4        15.8       -        15.8       -      6%
IntemationalConsultants                 0.4       3.6       4.0        0.0       0.1       0.1      90%       -
IntemationalConf/ Tmg/ Fellowships      8.6      77.4     86.0          0.3      2.4       2.7      90%      1%
Sports Equipment& Amenities            41.8      -        41.8          1.3      -         1.3       -        -
Tmining Costs (Incl TA/DA)            704.4      -       704.4        22.0       -        22.0       -       8%
Workshbops& Seminan                   164.2      -        164.2        5.1       -         5.1       -       2%
AwarenesCampaignExpaes                 88.7      -        88.7          2.8      -         2.8       -       1%
Total Inveament Cost                    3,966.2    339.0  4,305.2        123.9      10.6    134.5       8%      50%
Recurrent Comi
Salaries of Additional Staff        2,650.6      -      2,650.6       82.8       -        82.8       -      31%
Consumable& (office expenes, etc)     216.4      11.4    227.8          6.8      0.4       7.1      5%       3%
Teaching Materials                    899.9      .       899.9        28.1       -        28.1       -      10%
Contingency at District/BRC/Schoollevel 207.6    10.9    218.5          6.5      0.3       6.8      5%       3%
Vehicle Operation an Maint              9.8      -         9.8         0.3       -         0.3       -        -
Equipment Operation and Maint          16.7       0.9     17.6         0.5       0.0       0.6      5%
Civil Works Maint                      30.0      -        30.0         0.9       -         0.9
Honormrium                            292.0      -       292.0         9.1       -         9.1               3%
TotalRecurrentCodt                     4,323.0      23.2  4,346.2        135.1       0.7    135.8       1%      50%
Total BASElINE COSTS                    8,289.2    362.2  8,651.4        259.0      11.3    270.4       4%     100%
Physical Contingencies                649.3     36.2     685.5        20.3       1.1      21.4      5%       8%
Price Contingencies                 2,496.7    107.9   2,604.6        17.8       0.9      18.7       -       7%
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                      11,435.2   506.2  11,941.4        297.1      13.4    310.5       4%     115%
3.4               Contingency  Allowances.   Estimated  project costs include physical
contingencies (US$21.4 million) estimated at 10 percent of all physical components and
at 5 percent for technical assistance, salaries, and operation and maintenance costs. The
estimated costs of the project also include price contingencies (US$18.7 million) to cover
expected price escalation for civil works, goods, salaries, technical assistance, and
operation and maintenance at the following rates: (a) foreign costs: 2.2 percent in FY94
through FY2002; (b) local costs: 9.5 percent in FY94, 8 percent in FY95, 7 percent in
FY96, and 6 percent in FY97 through FY2002.
3.5               Foreign exchange component. The estimated foreign exchange component
of US$13.4 million is calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange proportions
as follows: (a) civil works 9 percent; (b) equipment 25 percent; (c) vehicles 25 percent;
(d) international fellowships, study tours, conference attendance and international
consultants 90 percent; (e) books and library materials, consumables, operation and
maintenance costs 5 percent.



- 38 -
B. FINANCING PLAN
3.6       The estimated total project cost of US$310.5 million would be financed by
an IDA credit of US$260.3 million equivalent, which would cover 86.6% of costs net
of taxes. The GOI and states would finance the remaining costs of US$40.2 million and
all taxes.
C. STATE INVESTMENT CAPACITY, ADDITIONALITY AND
RECURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS
3.7       The credit for the project will be made to GOI to finance national sub-
projects directly and to be passed in grant form to the states. GOI already currently
funds specific activities in primary education through its Centrally Sponsored Schemes.
The conditionalities for the Social Safety Net Adjustment Program include the
maintenance in real terms of central plan outlays on primary education during the Eighth
Five Year Plan. This should guarantee that all external resources derived specifically for
the DPEP will be additional to at least a constant real level of resources made available
by GOI. In 1992, an incremental outlay of Rs. 1950 million (equivalent to US$650
million) was added by the Planning Commission for the three remaining years of the
Eighth Plan. In turn, the DPEP Guidelines set three financial criteria for states'
involvement in the program: (a) states would be required to contribute around 15 percent
of the total cost, (b) program resources would be a net addition to normal growth of state
plan allocations for education as a whole and primary education in particular, and (c) the
annual recurrent costs of the investment would be shown to be sustainable on state non-
plan budgets at the end of the project (Annex 15 - Public Finances and Education
Expenditures in the Six IDA DPEP States).
NnVESTMENT CAPACITY
3.8       The ease with which these conditions will be met differs between the six
states. Of the three conditions, the requirement for states to fund 15 percent of the total
cost is the least likely to cause a problem. As a percentage of 1993/94 state plan (non-
recurring) outlays on elementary education, average annual state project expenditures
would be: Assam 3.6 percent, Haryana 17.3 percent, Karnataka 1.9 percent, Kerala 71.9
percent, Maharashtra 10.6 percent, and Tamil Nadu 6.5 percent. All states would
continue to incur plan outlays for elementary education that would not be financed
through DPEP.
3.9       In the state where the required allocation will be highest relative to the
existing outlay (Kerala), the absolute level of resources involved is the lowest - and equal
to just 0.6 percent of non-plan expenditures on primary education. Probably the state
with the largest potential problem is Assam where the low percentage hides a situation



- 39 -
where virtually all plan expenditures are necessary for funding non-plan activities. The
Planning Commission has agreed to the incorporation of the required level of resources
for the states' contributions in each of the 1994/95 annual state plans.
RESOURCE ADDITIONALITY
3.10      The requirement that the state's contribution to DPEP is a net addition to
plan expenditures on elementary education is central to the GOI's intention that the
program  leads to overall increases in resources for education.  The concept of
additionality adopted by the GOI reflects the one agreed between IDA and the
Government of India for the Social Safety Net arrangements. That is, plan expenditure,
minus the state's DPEP contribution, should be at levels which at least maintain real
resources for the education sector in general and for elementary education in particular
at their 1991/92 levels. On the basis of recent evidence this requirement should not be
too difficult to achieve for most of the states but will require careful monitoring.
3.11      Over the period 1990/91 to 1992/93, real plan expenditures on both
elementary education and general education in Tamil Nadu were lower in 1992/93 than
in 1990/91. In Maharashtra, general education expenditures were slightly lower in
1992/93 than in the previous year although elementary expenditures were significantly
higher. While elementary and general education expenditures fell in real terms in Kerala
in 1991/92, they fully recovered the following year. In the other states, real expenditures
on both elementary and general education increased each year. However, in Assam the
large increases in plan expenditures do not reflect new programs but rather the necessity
for ongoing programs to be funded through plan expenditures as a result of severe
difficulties in the non-plan budget. In both Haryana and Karnataka, plan expenditures
maintained an upward trend. Summarizing, only in Tamil Nadu were real plan
expenditures in both elementary and general education not maintained between 1990/91
and 1992/93. However, plan expenditure on primary education as a share of total plan
expenditure is very small and a reallocation should be relatively easily made if necessary.
Tamil Nadu has shown a very high commitment to primary education over several years.
The situation in Assam will require the most careful attention. It would be necessary to
strictly monitor that the few resources which are being used to fund new activities are
kept to the level reflected in the GOI guideline.
SUSTAINABILITY OF RECURRENT COSTS
3.12      The third issue is that of sustainability. The ability to sustain post project
recurrent costs on the non-plan budget depends on a number of factors. Among these
are (a) the structure of the project itself and the consequent level of recurring
expenditures, (b) the outcome of the Tenth Finance Commission which will set the
pattern for central transfers over the coming years, (c) the future strength of the economy
and increases in state revenues and (d) the willingness and ability of governments to
reorient their activities and restructure their budgets. The uncertainties of (b), (c) and
(d) are so great that only the past and present can be used as a guide to the future.
However, since it is the declared intention of the DOE to use DPEP to accelerate the



- 40 -
development of primary education, partly through a significant increase in the level of
resources, the guide must be regarded as partial.  Using the existing programs and
assuming a rate of real expenditure growth of 4 percent a year over the project life across
each state, the recurring costs resulting from the project would roughly be equivalent to
between one third and twice the normal increase allocated to primary education in the
year following the end of the project.
3.13       For each of the three southern states plus Maharashtra the required increases
would be below 50 percent of that normally allocated (although additional costs of
incentive programs following increased enrollments would also have to be met). The
increases would average around US$3.75 million compared to the average non-plan
budget of around US$26.5 million. Apart from the fact that Tamil Nadu appears to be
in a difficult financial situation requiring a particularly high level of borrowing,
sustainability should not pose a problem to these states.
3.14      In Assam the recurring cost requirement is a little higher. Much depends
on the ability of the state to restructure its public finances in the coming years and the
impact of being treated as a Special Category state for which the terms of central
transfers are much more favorable. The state which appears to be most out of line is
Haryana where the current low level of non-plan expenditures will result in the recurring
costs of the project being twice the level of normal non-plan increases. However,
Haryana has the third highest per capita income across the major states. The required
increases in the non-plan budget would be within the government's means if the political
will exists.
3.15       Assuming that (a) the overall financial situation in Assam, and to a lesser
extent in Tamil Nadu, is restructured in ways that more closely equate non-plan resources
with the demands on the budget and (b) the current political will to increase the priority
to primary education is maintained in Haryana, the proposed first phase of the DPEP is
potentially sustainable.
D. PROJECT IEMPLEMENTATION
3. 16     The size, complexity and degree of innovation involved in the start-up phases
of DPEP are recognized by the GOI and states. Implementation would be marked by
incremental expansion of national, state and district components on the basis of
performance.  Development objectives and indicators would provide the overall
framework for measuring performance (Annex 5 - Development Objectives, Indicators
& Monitoring). Annual national, state and districts work plans would provide the basis
for annual resource allocations and monitoring (Annexes 11 and 12, National and State
Implementation Plans, District Implementation Plans)
3.17      The central control mechanism would be review of progress reports covering
physical targets for civil works, procurement, and training; software and system



- 41 -
development; and expenditures. The review would assess work plans and budgets for
the subsequent year against progress and supervision reports prepared by the DPEP
Bureau and program donors. The review would be conducted by the DPEP Bureau and
Project Board with full donor participation, in January of each year. Progress reports
and work plans would follow a common framework (Annex 17 - Monitoring Report
Formats). The review would identify state plan allocation requirements for program
implementation, which would be monitored in the following March.
3.18      The initial year of the project would be based on work plans and budgets
reviewed by IDA at appraisal, and would emphasize project launch and start-up activities.
Project launch workshops would be carried out in each state and district. Program
management training would be provided for national, state and district management teams
(Annex 8 - Management Development Plan). First year work plans would emphasize the
initiation of national and state technical assistance programs, first stages of work on
school statistics MIS and textbook agency development, the design and development of
first phase in-service training systems, and limited civil works.
SUPERVISION
3.19      IDA supervision for DPEP would be integrated with supervision for the UP
Basic Education Project (Credit 2509-IN) and managed from the New Delhi Resident
Mission. The supervision plan is described in Annex 16 - Supervision Plan.
3.20      The DPEP Bureau would participate in joint supervision missions with
program donors, and in addition carry out its own supervision missions to participating
states and districts twice a year; reports would be made available to program donors.
3.21      DPEP Guidelines and procedures would be reviewed periodically. Changes
in guidelines would require concurrence of the DPEP Council, and would be reviewed
by program donors.
E. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
3.22      Progress towards the achievement of development objectives would be
measured against baselines through follow-up assessments conducted in the third and
sixth year of the project. The results of these studies would be discussed at a mid-term
review in the fourth year of the project and at project completion. Program evaluation
and research studies would provide a second source of monitoring information. A third
source would be a computerized project implementation monitoring system, augmented
by the annual review exercise. The first module of the project monitoring system, which
tracks state and district activity plans and budgets, was developed during project
preparation and is in use. Progress reporting formats are included in the program
implementation manual (para. 2.23) and refer to project components, budgets, physical
progress monitoring, technical assistance and training, procurement monitoring,



- 42 -
expenditure and disbursement, claim progress monitoring, and financial management.
Forms to be completed and appended to each report are included in Annex 17 --
Monitoring Report Format.
3.23      A fourth source of information would be the supervision reports of the DPEP
Bureau and program donors. IDA supervision would be managed from an expanded staff
in the New Delhi resident mission, and would focus on developing the supervision
capacity of DPEP and state staff in addition to closely monitoring implementation and
disbursements. The EC would also provide supervision support for the program as a
whole. Program donors have agreed to joint supervision missions whenever feasible and
to full exchange of reports. IDA attention would gradually shift to supervision of the
operations of the DPEP Bureau in the middle stages of the project. A mid-term project
review involving all program donors would be held in the fourth year of the program
(Annex 16 - Supervision Plan). The GOI furnish to IDA quarterly consolidated progress
reports in such content and detail as satisfactory to IDA; and prepare a completion report
no later than six months from the closing date of the credit. At negotiations, the GOI
provided assurances that it would: (a) ensure that assessment studies are carried out in
all project districts in the third and sixth year of the project using methods satisfactory
to IDA; and (b) conduct a mid-term review of project implementation and impact,
including disbursements, improvements in dropout rates, learning achievement scores,
and enrollments, with IDA by June 30, 1998.
3.24      Because of the innovative nature of project implementation through societies,
and independent management review of the effectiveness of the state implementation
societies would be conducted during the third year of the project in order to identify any
implementation difficulties and to propose measures to improve performance. This study
would be discussed with program donors at project mid-term review. At negotiations,
the GOI provided assurances that an independent management review of the functioning
of state implementation societies would be conducted under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA by December 1, 1997.
F. STATUS OF PREPARATION
3.25      In preparing the project, the GOI has sought to develop a strong sense of
ownership by fully involving national technical experts and by initiating preparation with
district proposals developed by district officials, with support from state and national
planning teams. State proposals were prepared in a second phase to ensure support for
district activities. The preparation of national proposals was completed by appraisal.
A parallel program of project preparation studies has been implemented by scholars at
NCERT and NIEPA in cooperation with state agencies, with technical and financial
support from UNICEF and IDA. The process has been marked by extensive interaction
between the GOI and states and districts, including training in educational planning for
district and state teams at NIEPA (Annex 3 - Project Preparation Process). Because of
DPEP's size, complexity and innovative nature, the DOE would establish an initial start



- 43 -
up year for the project. In this initial year emphasis would be given to the installation
of management systems, preparation of training materials and programs, and limited civil
works.
INFORMATIONAL ASPECTS: STUDIES PROGRAM
3.26      The project studies program has been substantially completed, and draft
reports reviewed by IDA (Annex 4 - Project Preparation Studies). Findings from the
studies have been summarized and discussed with state and district planning teams and
beneficiaries. The results of the studies would be fully taken into account in developing
strategies for implementation from the second year of the project onwards.
MANAGEMENT ASPECTS
3.27      DPEP management structures (program  structures and procedures and
management capacity) have been established over the 18 month period of project
development. Detailed AWPBs for the first year of activities have been completed for
each national, state and district sub-project and have been appraised by the DPEP Bureau
in the DOE. Implementation societies have been registered in each participating state in
DPEP.
EDUCATIONAL ASPECTS
3.28      The preliminary results of the baseline assessment studies fully confirm the
DPEP focus on improving learning achievement through increasing non-salary inputs.
They also demonstrate the central importance of improving instruction in language and
mathematics in the early primary grades. Preliminary results of the teacher study also
reinforce the importance of a substantial effort for in-service training. These results
provide the justification for national and state technical assistance programs, and for clear
focus on key activities in district programs. The textbook study underlies the state-
specific quality and efficiency programs that would be supported by DPEP. AWPBs for
technical assistance programs for school statistics MIS system development, primary
teacher in-service training and program evaluation research and studies have been
prepared and appraised.
SOCIAL ASPECTS
3.29      Popular participation is a cornerstone of DPEP. In the first rounds of
planning, more than 1000 meetings involving more than 50,000 persons have been held
at district, block and community levels for consultations on problems facing primary
education and on likely solutions. The reports of these meetings are available (in a
variety of languages) in project files. These meetings have included women, SC and ST
parents, teachers, NGOs and local officials.  Focus group discussions have been
completed as part of the gender and tribal studies. The results of the studies would be
discussed with officials and beneficiaries (paragraph 3.26). The results would be taken
into account through national and state technical assistance programs, in pilot projects,



- 44 -
and in continuing refinement of intervention strategies. Strengthened community/school
organizations in all states and districts would provide a mechanism for continuing
beneficiary participation in program implementation.
CIVIL WORKS PROGRAM
3.30      Sites. Work plans for first year activities have been clearly laid out and are
largely confined to repair of existing schools, expansion of existing schools and
construction of classrooms at new school sites where site acquisition is not an issue. Site
surveys and site acquisitions for Priority II civil works are in progress for the next wave
of construction activity, not scheduled to commence until the second year of the project.
3.31      Designs and Preparation of Drawings.  Design work for common
construction elements, such as classroom buildings and block resource centers, has been
largely completed and is being compiled in each state into a Project Construction
Manual, which also includes related technical specifications, structural detailing, survey
requirements and similar material. This manual is intended to serve as guidance on the
materials and methods of construction for all the majority of the facilities being built
throughout the project period. Design work is also advancing in most of the project
states for the larger "unique" facilities being programmed at the district and state levels,
such as those being built to accommodate training facilities at the SIEMT.
G. DISBURSEMENTS
3.32            Disbursement profile. The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed
over seven years, consistent with the standard profile for PHR projects in India. The
project is expected to be completed on September 30, 2001 and the credit closed on
March 31, 2002. The experience with other PHR projects reinforces the justification for
a standard disbursement profile. The table below shows forecasts of expenditures and
disbursements.
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY     FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99  FY2000  FY2001  FY2002
Annual        8.0    32.3   35.7   42.6   45.8   42.3    33.6   20.0
Cumulative    8.0    40.3   76.0   118.6  164.4  206.7   240.3  260.3
3.33      Disbursement Percentages. The IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) against 90 percent of expenditures on civil works;
(b) 100 percent of CIF and ex-factory costs or 80 percent of other local
expenditure on furniture, equipment, books, and vehicles;



- 45 -
(c) 100 percent of consultants, fellowships, study tours, attendance at
international conferences, training and workshops;
(d) and 75 percent of incremental staff salaries, honorarium fees,
consumables, teaching materials, operation and maintenance expenses
on a declining basis, beginning with 90 percent in the first two years,
declining to 80 percent for the third, fourth and fifth year, and 60
percent for the remaining years of the project.
3.34      Required Documentation.  Disbursements for training and fellowships,
incremental salaries and maintenance, and honoraria for volunteers would be made
against Statements of Expenditure. Disbursements for school construction, rehabilitation
and repair would also be made against Statements of Expenditure based on certification
of satisfactory completion of each stage of the work (foundation, walls, and roof). The
state government would maintain complete records, by site, of work accomplished and
funds disbursed, including certificates of completion signed by the block engineer and
countersigned by the District Engineer and District Project Officer. Disbursements for
procurement of goods and services under contracts of less than US$300,000 and
US$100,000 (for firms) and US$50,000 (for individuals) respectively, and for civil works
contracts under US$300,000, would also be made against Statements of Expenditure,
with supporting documentation retained by the state government for review by IDA
during supervision missions. All other disbursements would be made against fully
documented withdrawal applications.
3.35      Special Account and Central Govermnent Advance to the Project States.
In order to accelerate disbursements in respect of IDA's share of expenditures pre-
financed by the GOI and the state government, and to allow for direct payment of other
eligible local and foreign expenditures, a Special Account would be opened in the
Reserve Bank of India in the amount of US$12 million equivalent to cover four months
of expected requirements for IDA financed items. In addition, the GOI DOE would
release an advance of an estimated six months of expected project requirements for IDA
financed items as grants to the DPEP Implementation Society in each of the project
states. The State Governments would also place their own contribution in the accounts
of the Societies. GOI would, in turn, release additional grant assistance to the Societies
linked to subsequent disbursements by IDA against eligible expenditures.
3.36      Retroactive Financing.  Retroactive financing in the amount of SDR
5.54 million (approximately three percent of the proposed credit) is recommended to
cover eligible expenditures incurred in implementing appraised project activities after
March 1, 1994. Retroactive financing would support inter alia initial staff appointments,
development of the project monitoring system, and pilot construction of community
schools to test designs and cost parameters. All procurement would be made against
eligible categories of expenditures in the project, and would follow IDA procurement
guidelines.



- 46 -
H. PROCUREMENT
3.37      The procurement plan reflects the widespread and decentralized nature of the
activities that will be conducted by the six states in 23 districts throughout the seven year
life of the project. Many of the procurement actions in support of the project work do
not lend themselves well to aggregation for bidding as large single contracts. Civil
works, for example, is dominated by the small scale construction of single and double
classrooms totalling over 10,500 classrooms in all at nearly 5,000 separate sites over the
first four years of the project. Likewise, the purchases of consumables and teaching
materials amounts to over US$50 million in aggregate, but over 80% of it is comprised
of small scale purchases of easily acquired local materials for both new and existing
schools in the 23 project Districts, estimated to cost less than US$125 per classroom each
year.
3.38      Table 3.3 summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and
proposed methods of procurement, and a time line depiction of the major procurement
activities during the life of the project is contained in Annex 1.  Project-related
procurement for goods and services would follow procedures acceptable to IDA using
ICB and LCB documents or prudent shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. Project-
financed consultants would be selected according to Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, furniture, books and
educational materials would be bulked to the extent possible and procured as follows:
(a)  individual contracts estimated to exceed US$300,000 would be
procured using ICB;
(b)  individual contracts with an estimated value between US$50,000 and
US$300,000 would be procured using LCB;
(c)  individual purchases of off-the-shelf items through rate contracts or
prudent shopping procedures would be acceptable in packages of less
than US$50,000 (excepting vehicles which is further discussed in
paragraph 3.40 below) up to the aggregate limits as outlined in Table
3.3 and paragraphs 3.39 through 3.43.
3.39      Civil Works (US$63.9 million). Over eighty-five percent of civil works
would be for small, scattered construction of some 10,500 school classrooms, and for
school rehabilitation and repair, with an average estimated base cost per primary school
site of US$8,000. All such school construction and rehabilitation/repair estimated to cost
less than US$15,000 would be carried out using one of following three methods: 1) LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA , 2) community school construction programs, or 3) Force
Account. (Method to be used varies by State and value of works and is outlined in
Annex 14 - Civil Works Plans along with a summary of each States management
program for construction.) Civil works at DIETs (with estimated construction costs of
US$55,000 per site), and Block Resource Center buildings or other facilities estimated
at more than US$15,000 per site would be carried out through LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA under the management of the State PWD or equivalent organization.



- 47 -
A summary of the categories of civil works to be constructed under the project is as
follows:
% OF ALL
BUILDING TYPE          VALUE   CIVIL WORKS  PROCUREMENT METHOD
Classroom Construction  US$ 45.3 million    71%  LCB - approximately 50%
Community construction - approx 30%
Force Account - approx 20%
Classroom repair &  US$ 9.0 million    14%     Communityconstruction-approx50%
renovation                                     Force Account - approx 50%
Hostels, school complexes US$ 9.6 million    15%  LCB - 100%
and other larger works
over $15,000 per site
3.40      The Borrower has already completed and submitted for Bank review and
approval the common type designs, including specifications, for school construction
under the project. Site surveys have been completed at nearly all locations programmed
for work during the first year of the project.
3.41      Equipment (US$10.1 million). Equipment would bepurchased on an annual
basis in accordance with the phasing of project activities. Equipment consists of office
and audio visual equipment (computers, TVs, VCRs, type-writers) with unit costs less
than US$10,000, and small items (science laboratory equipment, science kits) with unit
costs of less than US$500. Because of the phasing of the project, and the diversity of
items to be procured, ICB procedures would not be practicable. Contracts for equipment
valued at US$300,000 or less, but more than US$50,000, would be made through LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. Purchases of equipment of US$50,000 or less, and not
exceeding in aggregate US$7.1 million or equivalent or about 70 percent of total
equipment costs, may be awarded on the basis of rate contract or prudent shopping with
solicitation of price quotations from at least three vendors.
3.42      Vehicles (US$1.4 million).  Vehicles would be purchased through ICB
procedures acceptable to IDA (US$1.1 million), or through rate contracts (US$0.3
million) in amounts not exceeding US$100,000 per state over the life of the project.
3.43      Furniture (US$8.3 million), Books (US$15.6 million) and Educational and
Consumable Materials (US$50.6 million). Furniture and educational materials would
be purchased in accordance with the phasing of the project. Books and educational
materials would be in the local language, and are available from local manufacturers, as
is furniture. Contracts for the purchase of books, furniture and educational materials
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate of US$56.2 million equivalent
over the life of the project may be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping with
solicitation of price quotations from at least three bidders. Contracts valued at more than
US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.



- 48 -
Table 3.3 - Procurement Arrangements
(Total Cost in US$ Millions)
Procurement Method
International     Local
Competitive  Competitive  Consulting
Bidding     Bidding    Services     Other   N.B.F.    Total
WORKS
Civil Works                              -        32.2           -      31.7         -     63.9
(28.9)               (28.4)              (57.3)
GOODS
Furniture                                -         2.5           -       5.8         -      8.3
(2.2)                 (5.2)              (7.4)
Equipment                               -          3.0           -       7.1         -      10.1
(2.7)                 (6.4)              (9.1)
Vehicles                               1.1           -                   0.3         -       1.4
(1.0)                             (0.3)              (1.3)
Books                                   -          4.7           -      10.9         -      15.6
(4.2)                 (9.8)             (14.0)
Consumables & Teaching Materials         -        11.0           -      39.5         -      50.6
(8.4)                (30.1)             (38.5)
TRAINING AND CONSULTANTS
Project Prep & Implementation Suppon     -           -         3.4         -         -      3.4
(inci foreign Consultants & Int'l Tmg)                        (3.0)                        (3.0)
Institutional Development (includes local  -         -        20.7      31.8         -     52.5
consultants, awareness campaign, local                      (20.7)    (31.8)         -    (52.5)
training, workshops and fellowships)
MISCELLANEOUS
Salaries of Additional Staff             -           -           -      93.5         -     93.5
(68.6)             (68.6)
Honormrium                                                       -      10.4         -      10.4
(7.5)              (7.5)
Vehicle Operation & Maint               -            -           -       0.3         -      0.3
(0.3)              (0.3)
Equipment Operation & Maint             -            -           -       0.6         -      0.6
(0.5)              (0.5)
TOTAL                                       1.1        53.4        24.1    231.9          -    310.5
(1.0)      (46.5)      (23.8)   (188.7)            (260.0)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 49 -
3.44      Bid packages for LCB and ICB goods procurement have not yet been
prepared, however, no major packages are required during the initial year of the project
and commercial aspects of such procurement packages will follow well established
precedents from previous Bank projects.
3.45      Local and Foreign Consultancy Contracts (US$24.1 million). Consultants
required under the project will be hired following procedures prescribed in "Guidelines:
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency"; August, 1981. Model documents used for inviting proposals, terms of
reference for all consultancies, and single-source contracts will be subject to prior review
for all contracts valued at US$100,000 or more awarded to firms and US$50,000 or more
to be awarded to individuals, except that all such documents as referred to in paragraphs
2.29 and 2.30, irrespective of their value, shall also be subject to prior review.
3.46      Local Training, Workshops (US$ 31.8 million).  Not a procurement
activity per se, but noted here for clarification, this category of expense relates to the
administrative costs to set up training sessions, seminars and workshops, as well as the
travel allowances and daily allowances for the tens of thousands of teachers and
administrators who will receive in service training under the auspices of the project
throughout the seven year life of the project.
3.47      IDA Review. During project supervision, all procurement under ICB as well
as the first three LCB contracts in each state for the procurement of goods and works
would be subject to prior review and approval of IDA. In addition, civil works contracts
estimated to cost US$300,000 or more and contracts for the procurement of equipment
and goods estimated to cost US$300,000 or more would be subject to prior IDA review
and approval. The review process would cover about 40% of the total contracts procured
under ICB/LCB. This relatively low percentage is considered satisfactory since the state
govemments have gained experience in procurement in previous Bank projects. Selective
post review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would be carried out.
3.48      Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower
(b) as part of comprehensive quarterly reports to IDA by the Borrower
(para. 3.23), indications of:
(i)  revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the
total project
(ii) revised timing of the procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award and completion time
for individual contracts
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.



- 50 -
I. AUDITS AND ACCOUNTING
3.49      The project expenditures incurred by project states and state implementation
societies would be subject to the normal GOI and state accounting and auditing
procedures, with the added requirement that the state implementation societies would
establish and maintain separate accounts and an accounting system, to record all project
transactions and appropriate support documentation for the transactions. The accounts
of state implementation societies would be subject to audit by independent auditors,
working under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
3.50      Audits of Central and state accounts, the Special Account and financial
statements of the project including a separate opinion on Statement of Expenditures
(SOE) would be subject to normal GOI accounting and auditing procedures which are
considered satisfactory to IDA. Documentation supporting SOEs would be maintained
at least one year after the completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal was made. The Special Account would show all withdrawal requests
disbursed, amounts advanced and reimbursed by IDA, and balance at the end of each
accounting period. The consolidated audit reports would be submitted to the Association
not later than nine months after the end of each financial year. Audits will cover all
project expenditures until such time as the credit has been closed.



- 51 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
4.1       The proposed credit would provide substantial financial and technical support
at a critically important point in the development of primary education in India. Through
the DPEP, the GOI has made an unprecedented commitment to a sustained effort to reach
the large majority of the population who exist at the fringes of the modem economy.
Improving the human capital of the poor is the best way to help them move out of
poverty, enabling them to improve their benefits from social services, to raise their
productivity in agriculture and traditional occupations and, in the medium term, to share
in the benefits of a liberalizing economy. The proposed credit would establish the
institutional framework through which targeted assistance would reach the schools of the
poor over a phased and sustained effort over 15-20 years. The potential magnitude of
the impact of DPEP at full implementation is suggested by the number of beneficiaries
in the initial 23 IDA-assisted districts out of the total of 373 districts to be reached by
DPEP: 1,500,000 students who would complete primary schooling rather than dropping
out; 14 million students with a better chance of mastering the curriculum; and an
additional 1,400,000 primary education places.
B. RISKS
4.2       While confident that the activities that would be financed by the proposed
credit are feasible and sustainable, IDA staff and project authorities also recognize the
significant financial and implementation risks associated with the program.
FINANCING
4.3       The DPEP is aimed squarely at historically low levels of investment in
primary education, by providing investment assistance to states to, in effect, drive up
both investment and recurrent expenditures on primary education. IDA's financial
analysis indicates that the states participating in the proposed IDA credit can meet the
investment costs and sustain the recurrent expenditures of the initial set of district and
state activities (Annex 15 - Public Finances and Education Expenditures in the Six IDA
DPEP States). However, full implementation of DPEP across all targeted districts would
require unprecedented levels of investment and recurrent cost financing for all states.
For some, the revenue situation suggests that some of the growth in outlay can be met
through enhanced revenues. For most, however, sustaining the investment program
would require substantial reallocations within state budgets toward primary education.
Past experience is an uncertain guide to the willingness of the states to do so. The GOI
would partly offset state financial risks by phasing the program over two or three Plan



- 52 -
periods in order to provide an opportunity for the effects of economic adjustment and
stabilization to improve state revenues and to support reform of state budget priorities.
However, the possibility of rapid deterioration in state financial circumstances can not
be ruled out, only monitored.
4.4       At the national level, political commitment to enhanced financing for primary
education has led to substantial additional financial allocations by the Planning
Commission for DPEP. The Prime Minister has announced that outlays for education
would be increased to six percent of GDP in the Ninth Plan. However, the GOI is
experiencing difficulty in reducing the budget deficit, and this could affect allocations to
the proposed program.
4.5       Thus, for IDA and other donors, the financial risks resolve to one: the
sustainability of political commitment at the national and state levels. Initial signs are
encouraging. The enhanced Eighth Plan allocation to DPEP by the GOI is a clear sign
of increased national priority. State participation is voluntary, and those states choosing
to participate have, through their own financing studies, become aware of the medium
term investment and recurrent cost implications. In the present political climate, the
benefits of primary education of acceptable quality for the poor, and for the economy as
a whole, are increasingly well understood. In the medium term, a strong and effective
DPEP could reinforce political commitment.
4.6       Close monitoring of the indicators of political commitment, notably annual
budget allocations, would be a priority for IDA and other donors. In this respect, it is
worth noting that the EC would release approximately US$90 million to the program in
four equal tranches tied to maintenance of FY91/92 budgets for elementary education in
real terms in annual GOI budgets for the DOE. Subsequent credits from IDA would be
dependent on satisfactory financing and implementation progress in the first credit.
These macro-incentives could provide continuing support for existing high levels of
political commitment to primary education and to the DPEP.
4.7       IDA staff conclude, on balance, that the present high level of financial and
political commitment, supported by close monitoring and macro-incentives, justify the
financial risks associated with the proposed credit.
IMPLEMENTATION
4.8       Managing a program of the scope and complexity of DPEP will not be easy.
The risk is further raised by the necessary move away from relatively easily-administered
central programs based on norms to a program that seeks, in principle, to provide
integrated development assistance tied to local conditions. To achieve the necessary level
of management capacity, the DPEP would need to create new management structures at
national, state and district levels.
4.9       There is a thus a risk that implementation would be uneven across the states
in the initial stages of activity. This could lead to slow disbursements in early years.



- 53 -
There is also risk attached to the proposed efforts to mobilize national and state expertise
to support and, over time, improve the quality of implementation and interventions at the
district level.
4.10      These risks are balanced in part by the way the proposed project has been
developed, in part by elements of program design and in part by actions taken by the
GOI and states. However, residual uncertainties regarding implementation arrangements
would remain, as is the case for most innovative projects in constrained financial
circumstances.
4.11      The project preparation process gives some assurances that these management
structures can function as intended. The pace of preparation for the proposed project has
been swift. The accomplishments of the GOI, states and districts in project preparation
have been substantial, indicating significant political commitment and ownership. A high
degree of popular participation has been achieved.
4.12      A number of elements of the program design combine to strengthen risk
management. First, in designing the DPEP the GOI has drawn explicitly on lessons of
experience from externally-assisted state primary education projects. This experience has
demonstrated the importance of strong institutional capacity, a key objective of DPEP.
Second, the proposed DPEP Bureau would be well staffed for supervision and appraisal
and would operate through an annual management control mechanism, with full
participation of donors. Third, there is an explicit provision for a start-up year focused
on a limited set of key activities, including institutional development.
4.13      Substantial actions designed to facilitate effective startup would be taken by
the time the proposed credit would be presented to the Bank's Board. At the national
level, the entire project development team would be appointed to key program
management positions in the DPEP Bureau. All key officials and state and district levels
would be appointed, with substantial continuity with project preparation teams. Program
rules and regulations and finance and accounting systems would be in place, supported
by an implementation manual. Contracts for key services would have been pre-approved
by IDA and ready to sign. Detailed first year work programs and budgets would have
been approved by program authorities. Substantial funds would have been released by the
GOI to state implementation societies and the program would have been launched.
4.14      The program would create incentives for good performance. In combination
with performance measurement, the management mechanism would create incentives for
quality implementation by states and districts. Program guidelines would permit non-
performing districts of states to be dropped from the program.  By putting financial
incentives in place to support key national and state technical support programs, the
DPEP would introduce a new approach to mobilizing expertise in the social sectors.
Extensive popular participation has generated substantial interest in the benefits of the
program in blocks and communities. If these interests are met through effective
implementation, growing demand from beneficiaries should provide another incentive
for implementation at the lowest levels of the program.



- 54 -
4.15      International donors would mobilize considerable technical resources to
support DPEP. IDA and the EC would strengthen their technical expertise in resident
missions to support implementation. IDA human resources staff based in the New Delhi
Mission would provide continuous technical and managerial support; the Procurement and
Disbursement Unit in the Mission would provide technical assistance in these key areas.
The EC is posting a senior human resources expert to New Delhi to manage a US$5
million technical assistance fund for DPEP. UNESCO has also expanded its New Delhi
staff to include an expert in educational statistics and monitoring to support DPEP.
UNICEF has committed its extensive local expert staff resources to project preparation
and would continue to assist with implementation.
4.16      Finally, periodic beneficiary assessments and a substantial program of
evaluation and research should provide a well-substantiated flow of academic and public
information on program performance, strengthening the incentive structure for national
and state program management.
4.17      However, residual risks remain for financial flows and accountability,
relationships between state governments and implementation societies, and relationships
between the program and newly elected local governments under the Panchayat Raj
legislation.
4.18      Financial Flows. DPEP would create a new system of financial advances
to state implementation societies. The system has been created to overcome diversion
of development assistance by state finance departments and thus to improve
implementation and disbursements. New accounting and auditing arrangements would
be established. There is a risk that despite careful design and appraisal, new systems
would not function as intended. This risk, however, must be balanced by the problems
inherent in present systems.
4.19      Relationships between State Govermnents and Societies. While previous
experience with state implementation societies is encouraging, the proposed scale of
operations through societies is unprecedented.  The GOI has designed societies to
function as project implementation structures for state govemments, with direct state
control through the composition of goveming councils and executive committees, and
through annual control (with the GOI) of funding for society activities. During appraisal,
IDA voiced concems regarding the nature of the legal relationships between societies and
state govemments. The GOI's responses to these concerns have been found to provide
a satisfactory basis to proceed while recognizing that uncertainties would persist for the
first few years of operations of the proposed project.
4.20      Relationships with Local Governnents. The establishment of locally elected
govemments (Panchayat Raj bodies) in all states draws on long national commitments to
local democracy. However, with implementing legislation only recently passed in all
states, there is considerable uncertainty regarding the possible impact of local governance
on primary education. The extent to which district govemments would control financial



- 55 -
allocations and teacher appointments, for example, could have major and varying
implications for the implementation of DPEP, both positive and negative.
4.21      The capacity of the proposed program to monitor and manage these risks
would be strengthened through the proposed credit. Both project authorities and IDA
recognize these residual risks, and would agree to monitor and discuss developments
annually. It has been agreed that an independent management review of the functioning
of societies, including financial mechanisms, would be conducted in the third year of the
project. DPEP would carry out a continuing program of studies to monitor the impact
of the Panchayat Raj legislation, and discuss these studies with IDA.



- 56 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.1       At negotiations, the GOI provided assurances that:
(a)  terms of reference and tender documents for technical assistance
programs for a) pedagogical improvement, b) educational planning and
management and c) ST education development would be provided for
IDA review by January 15, 1995 (paragraph 2.30);
(b)  IDA concurrence would be sought for preparation of any state or
district sub-projects additional to the initial 23 proposed for the credit,
(with full appraisal by DPEP and IDA appraisal of a sample of
proposed state/district expansion sub-projects) (paragraph 2.37);
(c)  the project would be implemented in accordance with DPEP
Guidelines, and proposed changes in DPEP Guidelines would be
discussed with IDA (paragraph 2.47);
(d)  DIETs would be established, fully staffed and functioning in all
project districts by January 31, 1996 (paragraph 2.59);
(e)  GOI would ensure that assessment studies are carried out in all project
districts in the third and sixth year of the project using methods
satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 3.23);
(f)  GOI would conduct a mid-term review of project implementation and
impact, including disbursements, improvements in dropout rates,
learning achievement scores, and enrollments, with IDA by June 30,
1998 (paragraph 3.23);
(g)  an independent management review  of the functioning of state
implementation societies would be conducted under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA by December 1, 1997 (paragraph 3.24).



- 57 -
5.2        At negotiations, the project states provided assurances that:
(a)  revised strategies for each state and district for improving primary
education for girls and ST students based on discussion of project
studies, together with implementation plans and budgets for the second
year of the project, would be presented for IDA review by January
15, 1995 (paragraph 2.75);
(b)  states shall allocate Project resources for tribal students at least in
proportion to the share of the tribal population in the district
population and shall provide for IDA review all proposals for the
establishment of ST residential schools, complete with school maps
and evidence of demand for such schools on the part of isolated
communities, prior to the authorization of construction (paragraph
2.78);
5.3.       There would be no conditions of effectiveness.
5.4.       Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 180 million (US$260.3 million equivalent) to India at
standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.






- 59 -
MNIA: District Primary Education Program                                                uI
Expenditure Accounts by Years
(Costs in Rs. Millions)
F-rd
Bm Coot In Cedar Year                                  Ea
1995    1996    1997    I9       1999    2011   2001         TOl      S    Am_
Civil Works                        138.7   294.8   346.8   398.8   312 1   242.8         -    1,734.0    9%       156.1
Furniture                          32.3    39.2    46.1    50.7    34.6    27.7          -      230.7      -         -
Equipe                              59.2    47.9    45.1    45.1    45.1    39.4         -      281.7  25%        70.4
Vehicles                            30.0     6.2     4.9        -       -        -       -       41.2   25%       10.3
Books & Ubranes                     33.9    42.4    63.6    84.8    84.8    63.6    50.9        424.2    5%       21.2
Local Consultant                   45.4    65.6    75.7    80.7    80.7    80.7    75.7         504.4      -         -
Intmantional Consultants            0.6      0.6     0.6      0.6     0.6      0.6     0.6        4.0   90%        3.6
IntarnatiocalConf / Trng I Fellowships  4.3    10.3    14.6    17.2    15.5    12.0    12.0      86.0  90%        77.4
Sports Equipmen   Amenities          1.7     7.1     9.6      9.2     7.5      6.7       -       41.8      -         -
Trining Cos (Incl TAIDA)            63.4   105.7   105.7   112.7   105.7   105.7   105.7        704.4      -         -
Workshopb    & Seminan              14.8    24.6    24.6    26.3    24.6    24.6    24.6        164.2      -         -
Awaeness Canmign Expense             8.0    11.5    13.3    14.2    14.2    14.2    13.3         88.7      -         -
Tot laveismen Cost                   432.2   655.9   750.6   840.3   725.4   618.0   282.8    4,305.2    8%        339.0
llnt Costa
Salsries of Additional Staff       159.0   212.0   344.6   424.1   503.6   503.6   503.6    2,650.6        -         -
Conanables (office expenses, etc)   27.3    29.6    34.2    34.2    34.2    34.2    34.2        227.8    5%        11.4
Teaching Materials                 108.0   117.0   135.0   135.0   135.0   135.0   135.0        899.9      -         -
Contingency at DistrictlBRC/School level    26.2    28.4    32.8    32.8    32.8    32.8    32.8  218.5    5%      10.9
Vehicle Operation an Maint           1.2     1.4      1.4     1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5        9.8      -         -
EquF,mnntOpesotionandMaim            1.1     2.1     2.5      2.8     3.0      3.0     3.2       17.6   5%         0.9
Civil Worb Maint                     2.1     3.6     4.2      4.8     5.1      5.1     5.1       30.0
Honorarium                           5.8    17.5    35.0    49.6    61.3    61.3    61.3        292.0
TOtl Reuureu Costs                   330.8   411.7   589.6   684.8   776.4   776.4   776.6    4,346.2    1%         23.2
Totl BASELNE COSTS                    763.0  1,067.5  1,340.2  1,525.1  1,501.8  1,394.4  1,059.4    8,651.4   4%    362.2
PhyricslContinpncaes               65.2    91.1   110.2   123.6   116.7   106.0    72.8         685.5   5%        36.2
Price Contingenies                 34.1   136.6   274.7   429.3   543.1   622.6   564.2    2,604.6   4%           107.9
TotalPROJECTCOSrS                     862.3  1,295.2  1,725.1  2,078.0  2,161.6  2,122.9  1,696.4   11,941.4   4%    506.2
Taxes                               35.7    50.7    61.9    71.1    64.2    56.8    23.0        363.4      -         -
Foreign Exchange                    51.2    69.1    85.3   100.2    92.2    79.0    29.3        506.2      -



- 60 -
AnKx 
Page 2
MNIA: District Primary Education Program
Expenditure Accounts by Years
(Costs in USS Millions)
1aj Cost In Calndr Year                                   Eaa
I19     199      1997     1996     199      210        l        Total     %    Amomot
Investment Costs
Civil Works                            4.3      9.2    10.8    12.5       9.8      7.6        -        54.2    9%         4.9
Furniture                              1.0      1.2      1.4     1.6      1.1      0.9        -        7.2       -
Equipment                              1.8      1.5      1.4     1.4      1.4      1.2        -         8.8   25%         2.2
Vehicles                               0.9      0.2      0.2                -        -        -         1.3   25%         0.3
Books & Libraries                      1.1      1.3     2.0      2.7      2.7      2.0      1.6        13.3    5%         0.7
Local Consultants                      1.4      2.0     2.4      2.5      2.5      2.5      2.4        15.8      -          -
Internaional Consultants               0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.1   90%          0.1
International Conf / Trng / Fellowships  0.1    0.3     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.4      0.4        2.7   90%          2.4
Sports Equipment & Amenities           0.1      0.2     0.3      0.3      0.2      0.2        -         1.3       -         -
Training Costs (Incl TAIDA)            2.0      3.3      3.3     3.5      3.3      3.3      3.3       22.0
Workshops & Seminars                   0.5      0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8         5.1
Awareness Campaign Expenses            0.2      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4         2.8
Tobl Investment Costs                   13.5    20.5    23.5    26.3    22.7    19.3          8.8       134.5    8%        10.6
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional Staff           5.0      6.6    10.8    13.3    15.7    15.7    15.7           82.8       -          -
Consumables (office expenses, etc)     0.9      0.9      1.1     1.1      1.1      1.1      1.1        7.1    5%          0.4
Teaching Materials                     3.4      3.7     4.2      4.2      4.2      4.2      4.2       28.1        -         -
Contingency at District/BRC/School level  0.8   0.9      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0         6.8    5%         0.3
Vehicle Operation and Maint            0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.3        -         -
EquipmentOperationandMaint             0.0      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1        0.6    5%          0.0
Civil WorksMaint                       0.1      0.1      0.1     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2         0.9       -         -
Honorarium                             0.2      0.5      1.1      1.6     1.9      1.9      1.9        9.1        -         -
Total Recurrent Cosa                    10.3    12.9    18.4    21.4    24.3    24.3    24.3            135.8    1%         0.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                      23.8    33.4    41.9    47.7    46.9    43.6    33.1           270.4    4%         11.3
Physical Contingencies                 2.0      2.8     3.4      3.9      3.6      3.3      2.3       21.4    5%          1.1
Price Contingencies                  -0.35      0.4      1.7     3.1      4.2      5.0      4.6        18.7    5%         0.9
Tota PROJE'r COSMS                        25.5    36.6    47.1    54.6    54.8    51.9    40.0           310.5    4%         13.4
Taxes                                  1.1      1.5      1.7     1.9      1.7      1.5      0.6        10.0      -          -
Foreign Exchange                       1.5     2.0      2.3      2.6      2.3      1.9      0.7       13.4



61
Annex I
Page 3
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Disbursement Categories by Financiers
(Total Costs in US$ Million)
Local   Dodoe
Disbursement Categories                                       GO[                [BRD               TOTAL             For.   (Kxd.        &
Amount      %      Amount       %      Amount       %    Excb.   Ta)    Taxi
Civil Works                                                   6.3   10%          56.5   90%          62.8   20%       5.8    52.7       4.4
Fumiture                                                      0.8   10%           7.4   90%           8.3    3%          -     7.7      0.6
Equipment                                                     1.0   10%           9.1   90%          10.1    3%       2.6      6.9      0.7
Vehicles                                                      0.1   10%           1.3   90%           1.4    1%       0.4      1.0      0.1
Books & Libraries                                             1.6   10%          14.0   90%          15.6    5%       0.8    14.0       0.8
Local Consultant                                                -       -        20.7  100%          20.7    7%          -    20.7         -
Intemational Consultants/ Int'I Training                        -       -         3.4  100%           3.4    1%       3.0      0.3
Training & Workshops (incl Staff TA/DA)                         -       -        31.8  100%          31.8   10%          -    31.8
Salaries of Additional Staff                                 24.9   27%          68.6   73%          93.5   30%          -    93.5
Honorariurn                                                   2.9   28%           7.5   72%          10.4    3%          -    10.4
Maintenance                                                   0.5   25%           1.5   75%           2.0    1%       0.0       1.9     0.1
Consumables & Teaching Materials (in  Contingencies)         12.1   24%          38.5   76%          50.6   16%       0.8    46.3        3.4
Total                                                            50.2   16%         260.3   84%         310.5  100%       13.4   287.1    10.0



62
Annex I
Page 4
INIIA: District Primary Education Program
Expenditure Accounts by Project Components
(Costs in US$ Million)
Improve Quauty & Acces in Primary Education
Bugd                  Buid
National   Buid State    Ditrict                    Improve                  Fnydl
Expenditure Accounts              Intutal  InA tutlona  Inatutical  Improve  Increase   Learing                C _adh
Capacity    Capacity    Capacity   Retention   Accem   Achievements  Total  %     Amount
ltvestmet Coda
Civil Works                         -          2.1        0.0        9.6      36.1      6.4       54.2      10%      5.4
Furniture                           0.0        0.2        0.2        2.6      3.0        1.2       7.2      10%      0.7
Equipment                          0.4         1.8         1.2       0.5      2.0       2.9        8.8      10%      0.9
Vehicles                           0.0         0.2        0.4         -        -        0.6        1.3      10%      0.1
Books&Libraries                     1.2        1.1        0.0        4.8      0.5       5.7        13.3     10%      1.3
Local Consultants                  10.8        2.4        2.5         -       0.0       0.1       15.8      5%       0.8
Imernational Consultants            0.1         -           -         -        -          -        0.1      10%      0.0
Iinermaonal Conf / Trrg / Fellowsh  2.7         -           -         -        -          -        2.7      10%      0.3
Sports Equipment & Amenities        -           -          -         0.9      0.4         -        1.3      10%      0.1
Trainin Costs (Incl TA/DA)         0.9         1.8         1.4       8.8      0.2       9.0       22.0      10%      2.2
Workshops & Seminars                2.0        1.3        0.0        1.2       -        0.7        5.1      10%      0.5
Awsareness Campaign Expenses         -         0.0         -         2.8       -          -        2.8      5%       0.1
Toal Inve d nCeids                   17.9        10.7        5.8      31.2      42.2      26.6      134.5     9%       12.5
Recurren Ccis
Salries of Additional Staff        2.0         5.8        5.2        4.3     47.2       18.3      82.8      5%       4.1
Conwmnables (office expenes, etc)  0.4         3.9        0.6        1.2      0.4       0.6        7.1      10%      0.7
Teaching Materials                   -         2.5        0.0        3.7      1.0       20.9      28.1      10%      2.8
Contingeency atDistrictlBRC/School   -         0.1        0.5        0.4      0.4       5.4        6.8      10%      0.7
Vehicle Operation and Maint        0.0         0.1        0.2         -        -          -        0.3      5%       0.0
Equipmnt Operation and Maint       0.2         0.1        0.1        0.1      0.0         -        0.6      5 %      0.0
Civil Work Maint                   0.0         0.2        0.1        0.4      0.1       0.1        0.9      5%       0.0
Honorarium                           -         1.3         -         1.3      6.1       0.4        9.1      5%       0.5
ToalRecurrentCosta                    2.6        14.0        6.7       11.4     55.3      45.8      135.8    7%        8.9
Toal BASELINE COSIS                    20.5       24.7        12.5      42.7     97.5       72.4      270.4     8%      21.4
Physical Contingencies              1.4        2.0        0.8        3.8      7.1       6.3       21.4      0%        -
PriceContingencies                  1.5        1.7        0.9        2.9      6.9       4.9       18.7      7%       1.3
Tota PROJECTCOSTS                      23.4       28.4        14.2      49.4    111.4       83.7      310.5     7%      22.7
Taxes                              0.1         1.0        0.3        1.8      3.5       3.3        10.0     9%       0.9
Foreign Exchange                   3.2         1.1        0.6        1.6      4.5       2.4       13.4      9%       1.2



- 63 -
Annex I
PUe 5
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Project Components by Year
(Base Costs in Rs. Million)
Bae Cost In Caklendar Year
ComPonents                        199s     1996     1997    1998     1999     2000     2001       TOal
Build National Institutional Capacity                   55.7    82.5    99.0   109.7   109.0   103.5    97.4           656.9
Build State Institutional Capacity                      80.0    97.0   117.7   130.1    132.7   127.0   107.4          791.9
Improve Quality & Access in Primary Education
Build District Institutional Capacity                45.3    46.5    56.8    61.8    66.0    64.9    57.7            398.9
Improve Retention                                    120.6   186.9   222.8   251.8   232.1   208.7   143.2    1,366.1
Increase Access                                     223.6   369.1   496.1   588.7   576.8   525.4   340.5    3,120.2
Improve Learning Achievements                        237.8   285.5   347.8   382.9   385.2   364.9   313.2    2,317.4
Subtotal Improve Quality & Access in Primary Ed     627.3   888.0  1,123.5  1,285.2  1,260.1  1,163.9   854.6    7,202.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     763.0  1,067.5  1,340.2  1,525.1  1,501.8  1,394.4  1,059.4    8,651.4
Physical Contingencies                               65.2    91.1    110.2   123.6   116.7   106.0    72.8           685.5
Price Contingencies                                  34.1    136.6   274.7   429.3   543.1   622.6   564.2   2,604.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      862.3  1,295.2  1,725.1  2,078.0  2,161.6  2,122.9  1,696.4   11,941.4
Taxes                                                 35.7    50.7    61.9    71.1    64.2    56.8    23.0           363.4
Foreign Exchange                                     51.2    69.1      85.3   100.2    92.2    79.0    29.3          506.2



- 64 -
Auzx 1
Page 6
MDIA: District Primary Education Program
Project Components by Financiers
(Total Costs in US$ Million)
I-I    Du
GOI              IDA             TOTAL             For.   ad.         &
Amount  %        Amount   %        Amount  %          Exeb.   Tam)    Taxd
Build Natioal lnsttutional Capacty          0.9   4%         22.5  96%        23.4   8%          3.2    20.0      0.1
Bulld State Inalosial Capadty               4.7  17%         23.7  83%        28.4   9%          1.1    26.4       1.0
Improve Qually & Acces In Primary Education
Build District Institutional Capacity     2.2  15%         12.0  85%        14.2  5%           0.6    13.4      0.3
Improve Retention                         5.6  11%        43.8  89%         49.4  16%          1.6    46.0      1.8
Increase Access                          21.6  19%         89.9  81%       111.4  36%          4.5   103.4      3.5
Improve Learning Achievements            15.1  18%         68.5  82%        83.7  27%          2.4    77.9      3.3
Total Disbursement                           50.2  16%        260.3  84%       310.5  100%        13.4   287.1    10.0



- 65 -
Pe 7
INDIA:, District Primary Eduication Program
Procurement Arrangments
(Total Costs in US$ Million)
Nc        Mdk
Intrumadma   LOC                                            C     y
Comp.eMkve Cmpetide   Lwcal   C    _mltg   Face    Dk      C __udm
Bddhmg   BDhddlug   sb5p,    Sa        Ac t  C_q             e r      Todt
CIVIL WORKS
Civil Works                                    -       32.2       -         -        13.6       -        18.1      63.9
(28.9)                       (12.2)              (16.2)    (57.3)
GOODS
Furniture                                      -       2.5       5.8        -         -         -         -         8.3
(2.2)    (5.2)                                              (7.4)
Equipment                                      -       3.0       7.1        -         -         -         -        10.1
(2.7)     (6.4)                                             (9.1)
vehicles                                      1.         -       0.3        -                                       1.4
(1.0)              (0.3)                                             (1.3)
Books                                          -       4.7       10.9       -         -         -         -        15.6
(4.2)    (9.8)                                             (14.0)
Consumables & Teaching Materials               -       11.0      39.5       -         -         -         -        50.6
(8.4)    (30.1)                                            (38.5)
TRAINING AND CONSULTANTS
Project Prep & Inplementation Support          -         -        -        3.4        -         -         -         3.4
(incl foreign consultants & Int'l Trng)                                    (3.4)                                   (3.4)
Institutional Development (includes local      -        -         -        20.7                31.8       -        52.5
Consultants, awareness campaign, local                                    (20.7)              (31.8)              (52.5)
training, workshops amd fellowships)
MISCELLANEOUS
Salaries of Additional Staff                   -         -         -        -         -        93.5       -        93.5
(68.6)              (68.6)
Honorarium                                     -         -        -         -         -        10.4                10.4
(7.5)               (7.5)
Vehicle Operation & Maint                                -         -        -         -        0.3        -         0.3
(0.3)               (0.3)
Equipnent Operation & Maint                    -         -        -         -         -        0.6        -        0.6
(0.5)               (0.5)
Total                                             1.1      53.4      63.6      24.1      13.6      136.6     18.1      310.5
(1.0)    (46.5)    (51.7)    (24.1)    (12.2)   (108.6)   (16.2)    (260.3)
Note: Figures in pareutsbeis are the respective mounts ftnanled by IDA



District Primary Education Project                                                                                                                                                                                                 Annex..I
Procurement Implementation Plan                                                                                                                                                                                                     Page 8
1    I94                      1999          1          1994                    1997          1          1996          1          1999                     2090                    290
III F  AAI) JI AlSIONI I I Fil A  * 1 JIIAlSIOINI  I FI1Ak    * IA  IO MI30   DJ[lqAh )I )I AlSION III FhA   )IF * A S 11*30   DI J    31*505J )I lSIO MD I Flf *l  3)IJI*l3I05I l IF MA111 I AlSIOI MD
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS & SERVICES
sit. S.ry-"  NtirIfy 3 Pro)d                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
B4idiigi/As*igniriten of Prions 3 Projoo
Coo ti-o  pwdit - Priteiy I Proyns
ldFURITURE G P- 2 EQjuIPETFRNWFCLTE
DMP Prep - Lug. Pri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W.k. (~~~~~~~~~SlMEHRXL
Si. S.," - MG,ity 2 P.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6/29



I-   I                                                                                                    EI 
. '    . ...    T        ._..
W    .... .' ... .,  ,. w   '.   ~~~~~~~~~~~..... . .... ...                            ... ,,._ _
. .. .........~-.                       ~
-    I!                                                            >






- 69 -
AnnexL2
Page 1
INDTA: District Primary Education Program
Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements
Expenditures              Disbursements
IDA Fscal Year            Semester    Cumulative     Semester    Cumulative
-------------------------------------- $US Milion -------------------------------------
FY95
2nd (Jan 95 - Jun 95)              12.8          12.8          8.0           8.0
FY96
1st (Jul 95 - Dec 95)              12.8         25.5          15.4          23.4
2nd (Jan 96 - Jun 96)              18.3         43.8          16.9          40.3
FY97
1st (Jul 96 - Dec 96)              18.3         62.2          16.0          56.3
2nd (Jan 97 - Jun 97)              23.5         85.7          19.7          76.0
FY98
1st (Jul 97 - Dec 97)              23.5        109.2          19.7          95.7
2nd (Jan 98- Jun 98)               27.3         136.5         22.9         118.6
FY99
1st (Jul 98 - Dec 98)              27.3        163.8          22.9         141.6
2nd (Jan 99 - Jun 99)              27.4         191.2         22.8         164.4
FY2000
1st (Jul 99 - Dec 99)              27.4        218.6          22.8         187.2
2nd (Jan 2000 - Jun 2000)          25.9         244.6         19.5         206.7
FY2001
1st (Jul 2000 - Dec 2000)          25.9        270.5          19.5         226.2
2nd (Jan 2001 - Jun 2001)          20.0         290.5         14.1         240.3
FY2002
1st (Jul 2001- Dec 2001)           20.0        310.5          14.1         254.3
2nd (Jan 2002 - Jun 2002)              -        310.5          6.0         260.3



- 70 -
Ancx'2
Page 2
DIA:  strict Primary EducationaPro
bNlhuseen Profiles
PROJECI YEAR
I          2          3           4          5           6          7           8
FY 1995   FY 1996  FY 199.7   FlY 1998   FY 1999   FY 2000   FlY 2001   FY 2002
I t FY Semtster    0.00      15.43      16.00       19.70      22.95       22.84      19.47       14.07
2nd FY Smater    8.00         16.85      19.70      22.95       22.84       19.47      14.07       6.00
lIst + 2nd SaaSter    8.00     32.29       35.69      42.65       45.79      42.31       33.54      20.07
Prst Projectims (Amuilait in U         8.0       40.3        76.0       118.6       164.4      206.7      240.3       260.3
M ifliia s)                      __  _  __   _  __  _    __ _  _     _  _  _                _  _  _
Disbursement Profiles
End of    End of    End of    End of    Erid of    End of                End of    E of         Endof
FY1995   FY1996   FY1997    FY1998   FlY1999   FY2000   FY2001    FY2002   FYl2003
ProjecProfile                         3%         15%        29%         46%        63%         79%        92%        100%        100%
PtOFIE  - Buk-wide EAc Scaor          3%         10%        22%         42%        62%         78%        94%         I0%        100%
PROPILE - SA PHR Sectun               3%         10%        22%         38%        54%         70%        86%         92%        100%
PROFIE - India PHR Sam"               3%         10%        22%         34%        50%         66%        82%         94%      I10%
Comparison of Disbursement Profiles
100% 
90%                                __ _
80%                               _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _ _  _        _  _  _                               _  _  _
I l | ~~~~~~~~Project Proflibell/  ' 
70%                      PROFILE Bsrk-wid. Educ Sector               -      f          -
_  - -   PPROFILE - SA PHR Sectors
|  50%          '        PROFILE 15Inde PHR Sectors
50%                                                                     _____
40%                                                                       __ _
30%                                                          _  _  _      _  _  _      _  _  _                  _  _   _
Maximum Deviation from Regin-wide
20%                                                                       PH  Project Profi     
10% _o___
sa rt        W of        &W f0        "M o        & d of      EWdo          rnd &  W of  ho of        nd of       Ihdsf
FYI"s       FrYIsse      FY19S7       FY1998       FY1999      FY2000       FY2001       FY2oo2       FY2003
AN14X2-2.XLS



- 71 -
Annex 3
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Project Preparation Process
1.           The District Primary Edcucationi Program  (DPEP) is a national financial
intermediary and technical support organization created to manage a rapidly expandling
investment program  for primary education.  The program  would serve as the nmain
vehicle for utilizing external assistance to primary education.
2.            Preparation of DPEP proposals for external financing required that the
DOE address three substantial tasks in parallel.  First, an analytical basis for the
development and refinemiient of intervenltionl strategies and to establish baselines for
assessment of progress would need to be created. Second, project development in a large
federal system would require decentralizationi of planning in order to strengthen popular
participation, local ownerslhip and( eventLual ii iplementation. Third, a nationlal capacity
for appraisal, financing and supervisioni of state and district suLb-projects would need to
be created at the same time that state andl district proposals woulcl be developed.
3.            Preparation Strategy. The strategy of the DOE has been to use the process
of completing the three preparation tasks as an opportunity to organize and develop the
institutional capacity that would be needed for program  implemnenitationi and futLure
expansion. Formal training, national techlical assistanice and learninig by doing have
been the elements of the capacity bulilding strategy for each task.
Studies Program
4.            The program  of project preparation  studies is sumlmliiarize(d in Annex 4.
In addition to providing the analytical basis needed for initial and evolving intervention
designs, the studies program provided a structuLre for capacity building at national, state
and district levels.
5.            The national research teamls from] the National CoullCil for Educational
Research and Training (NCERT) and the National Institute of Educatiolnal Planning and
Administration (NIEPA) organized and trained research teams in states and districts, and
some of the data analysis was carried out in state institLutions.  The formal training
provided and extensive experience in the mianiagemiienit and supervision of large scale rLural
educational research has established an initial level of capacity in states and some
districts. In all, inore than 250 researchers were trained in the process. This capacity
would be drawn upon to conduct follow-tip assessments to mieasuLre project impact in the
third and sixth years of the project as well as to carry out evaluation studies of particular
DPEP interventions.



- 72 -
Annex 3
Page 2
Decentralized Planning
6.           Decentralization of education planning and management to districts is a
central objective of the Revised National Policy of Education (1992). The policy is
further strengthened by the 73rd and 74th Amen(dliments to the Constitutioll of India,
which provide for increased authority and responsibility for primary education, amzong
other programs, to district governments. The revised national education policy also calls
for popular participation in the development and imnplementation of primary education.
7.           Capacity Building. The DPEP Guidelinles issued by the Departmenit of
Education require that planning be done at district level with substantial popular
participation. While district plaiiilng for primary education hlad been done on a limiited
pilot basis in the past, preparation for proposed DPEP investments would be the first
time that it would be attempted on a large scale.  To strengthen district planiling
capacity, faculty from NIEPA and NCERT were appointed as chief consuiltanits to each
participating state. These individuals participated in the lauiilch of planning exercises at
state and district levels, and provided continIlilIg independent advice and technical
assistance during the process.
8.           In addition, NIEPA organized a series of traininlg programs on educational
planning for state and district planning teams, and conducted workshops on key elemelits
of plan development (costing, civil works planning, work planinlilg) at different stages
during plan development at which emerging plans were reviewed and revised. NCERT
provided similar workshop support for in-service teacher training, textbook publication,
and strategy development for girls education.
9.           Popular Participation. State and district planning teams were asked by
DOE/DPEP to keep track of mzeetinigs heldl for the purposes of consultations with
officials, commuinity leaders, teachers, NGOs and miemilbers of comimluniities. The scale
of the consultation process is suggested by Annex 3 Table 1, which has been compiled
from state and district reports and participant lists and counts. The data indicate that
well in excess of 50,000 persons participated in planining discussions at block, village and
school levels. Meetings at the district and state levels often involved the same persons;
yet the numbers of meetings and participants are still impressive.
10.          By and large, district level irleetings involved educationi officials, members
of legislature, teachers, and adminiistrators of related programs, such as ICDS. In middle
and later stages, these meetinigs often focuse(d oin reviews of evolving plan docuinents,
and on assignmenits for continiuing plan developmient.



- 73 -
Annex 3
Page 3
Table 1: Participation Meetings
State                 District             Block. Coimmninilly
and School
Assam                    5 (120)
Darrang                                          11  (92)                44 (2550)
Dhubri                                           5 (135)                 67 (1765)
Karbi Anglong                                   na                        6 (2000)
Morigaon                                         10 (152)                125 (10500)
Haryana                  14 (109)
Hisar                                            2  (36)                26  (479)
Jind                                             5  (32)                47  (450)
Kaithal                                          2  (36)                26 (1179)
Sirsa                                            4  (56)                28  (372)
Karnataka                11 (440)
Belgaon                                          4 (96)                  8  (800)
Kolar                                            12 (475)               40 (2960)
Mandiya                                          17 (340)                12  (354)
Raichur
Kerala                  4 (108)
Kasargode                                        8 (89)                  4  (69)
Malauppuram                                      1 (20)                 47 (820)
Wayanad                                          8 (na)                  8  (na)
Maharashtra              5 (20)
Aurangabad                                       10 (85)                 159 (2240)
Latur                                            6 (134)                 10  (207)
Nanded                                          na                       na
Osmaniabad                                       17 (104)                36 (11364)
Parbhani                                         17 (106)                40 (18670)
Tamil Nadu               10 (400)
Dharinapuri                                      10 (270)                36 (800)



- 74 -
Annex 3
Page 4
South Arcot                                  8 (205)               18 (270)
Thiruvanna.                                  2 (87)                19 (1865)
TOTALS                 49 (1197)          | 161 (11492)          | 806 (59527)
Number of meetings (number of participants)
II.           The meetinigs at block level and( below had in coImllimon consultations with
comiiiunity memilbers, local leaclers and teachers on problemis in primary educationl as
well as alternative solutionIs.  In districts with concentrated tribal l)opUlations, tribal
leaders and coinimitinities were consuIlte(i separately. A variety of approaches were used.
In Assam, for example, miass meetinigs were condlicted at suib-block level.  In Tamil
Nadu and Haryana, consultationis were organized aroUnd scIhoOl supervisioni circuits. In
Mandiya district of Karnataka, tribal commilLllities were consUlted by a traveling team ot'
district and block officials. In Parbhani and Osmaniabad districts in Mahal-ashtra distr-ict
officials used the well-functioning network of village education coimmittees to organize
meetings with block officials in all villages.  A similar approach was followed in
Morigaon district of Assam.
12.           Other methiods were emrployed in addlitioni to meetinigs.  In Wayanad
District in Kerala, a tribal district, cletailed micro planning exercises were conducted
with commuliLinities in the early stages ot planniniig. These exercises involve(d house to
hoLise disctssiolIs of prinlary educationi along with census taking.  Written comimienlts
were widely solicited in both Mahar-ashitra and Kerala.
13.           Reports of the consLIltations are available in various languiages.  While
uneven  in  depth  of coverage, they  generally  report on  issues  discusse(d  and
recommendations made.
14.           At the national level, more than 20 meetinigs were held cdurinig the course
of project preparation. Half of these involved by state and district planninig teams. Also
participating  were leadinig acadlemlicianis and senior officers fromii related  national
programis, such as ICDS.
15.           Continuing the Participation Process. During the first part of the ftirst year
of the project the results of project studies would be discLussecl in each project clistrict
headqLiarters with officials, teachers, NGO and commtunity representatives. Disctussions
would be held in the regional langtiage, with sulilinaries of the findings of the sttudies for
that district presented. The districts initial actions strategies would be reviewed againist
the findings of the studies, and any needed changes identified.



- 75 -
Annex 3
Page 5
16.         In each project state, school comni1Lllity organizatiolns -- oftell calledl
Village Education Commilittees -- would be created or strengthienied. Tllese comImlunity
organizations would be expected to take an active role in school activities. They would
also serve as contact points for consultationi with teachers, supervisors and district
education officials.
Appraisal and Supervision Capacity
17.          The project development team in the GOI Department of Education began
preparation of the DPEP programii with two years of experience with thle preparation an(l
implementation of externally-finaliced state basic eduication projects in Andhra Pradesh
(ODA), Bihar (UNICEF), Rajasthan (SIDA) ancl Uttar Pradesh (IDA). This experience
had convinced the DOE that rather than rely on the disparate appraisal and supervision
procedures of different external agencies, nationial capacity to carry olut these fuiilctions
should be developed if India were to become fully self-reliant in maniaging her rapidly
expanding primary education investmienit programl.
18.          Full establishment of the DPEP maniagemilent structure would have to await
the approval of anticipated financing support from the European Coinmunlity and IDA.
In the interim, a project development team of three experienced deputy secretaries led
full time by a joint secretary was established in the DOE. Flinds were provided by the
DOE to be passed to the states for project developmenit costs. The National Core Team
of experts from NCERT and NIEPA was establishecl and finaniced to provide technical
assistance to states and districts.
19.          BLuilding Staff Capacity. Two strategies were employed to build staff and
consultant capacity for appraisal of sub-projects. First, DOE project development team
members participated fully in IDA preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal missions.
By appraisal, the project team conducted its own formal appraisal of proposals in
collaboration with the IDA team.
20.          Second, the DOE project team] was itself carrying otit the project cycle for
the proposed grant from the European Comilmuillity, withi preparation, pre-appraisal and
appraisal missions scheduiled to come after IDA had completed each stage of project
processing. The appraisal process for the European ComIlLullity grant was carriedl ouLt
largely in Madhya Pradesh.  DOE involved mem)bers of the National Core Team,
external consultants financed by EC, as well as several consuiltants who were also
participating in the IDA DPEP appraisal. In later stages of the this appraisal process,
state and district officials from  the states developing proposals for IDA  were also
involved in order to begin the development of a roster of experienced consultants from
different parts of the couLntry.



- 76 -
Annex 3
Page 6
21.           Both series of appraisal activities were expressly conceived of as on-the-job
training experiences for project development team memiibers and national consultants.
More than thirty national staff and consultants participated over a twelve mlonitlh period.
22.           Refining Criteria and Procedures. The DPEP Guidelines issued by the
DOE in April, 1993 provided substantial early guidanice to districts and states for the
preparation of sub-project proposals. At the same time, as proposals were reviewed at
different stages, the need for addlitional criteria and guidelinles emerged. These were
initially codified for IDA's pre-appraisal mission; they were formially structured and
issued prior to IDA's final appraisal.



- 77 -
Annex 4
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Project Preparation Studies
1.       Six project studies were completed in project states and districts. Three are
primary education beneficiary assessments: (a) baseline assessments of learning
achievement, (b) studies of factors affecting enrollment and dropout for girl students, and
(c) studies of the educational context and needs of Scheduled Tribe (ST) students. Three
more studies focus on key elements of DPEP program design: (a) teacher education,
training, recruitment and motivation; (b)  textbook preparation, publication and
distribution; and (c) state education financing.
2.       The studies were carried out by teams led by scholars from the National
Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and the National Institute for
Educational Planning and Administration (NIEPA). Study teams were drawn from
research and training institutions in participating districts and states. Training in research
and analysis methodology was provided by the study team coordinators, both formally
and through supervision of data collection and analysis, and report writing. IDA and
UNICEF assisted in the preparation of terms of reference for the studies, and provided
the financing required. IDA financing came from a grant from Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund of the Government of Japan.
A. BENEFICIARY ASSESSMENTS
Baseline Assessments of Learning Achievement
3.       The objectives of these studies were: (a) to assess the achievement level of
students who were nearing the end of the primary cycle in the districts under the DPEP
program and to investigate differences in achievement of the different groups of students
(boys/girls, SC/ST students and rural and urban students); (b) to estimate the level of
learning of simple skills of literacy and numeracy achieved at the end of class 1 and of
students who had dropped out after 3 or 4 years of schooling, and (c) to collect data on
relevant pupil background and school factors that could explain differences in the
learning achievement of pupils at the end of the primary cycle.
4.       Design and methodology. Multi-stage random sampling was used to select
rural and urban blocks, schools and students. Six instruments were administered in each
school in the sample: (a) a standardized achievement test in reading comprehension for



- 78 -
Annex 4
Page 2
grade 4 or 51'; (b) a standardized achievement test in mathematics for grades 4 or 5; (c)
a test of basic competencies in reading and arithmetic expected by end of grade 1; (d)
a simple literacy test for dropouts; (e) an interview schedule for students at the end of
the primary cycle and for dropouts; (f) an interview schedule for teachers; and (g) a
schedule for recording data from school records. All instruments were administered by
interviewers trained in the classroom and in the field.
5.         Sample. The total sample for the six states and 23 districts being proposed to
IDAV' consisted of 850 schools, 2712 teachers, 14,341 pupils in the last year of primary
school, 13,021 pupils in grade 2, and 1099 children who had dropped out of school.
6.         Selected findings. Selected findings from  the initial tabulation of data are:3'
Average  achievement  levels  in  reading  comprehension  and
mathematics for grades 4/5 are extremely low in all project
districts;4'
*          Average achievement levels for class 2 students and dropouts are
also very low;
Differences in achievement between girls and boys and SC/ST
students and others are small, without a consistent pattern across
districts and states;
The largest share of dropout occurs in grades 1 and 2;
*          On average, 90 percent of students have all required textbooks;
More than 90 percent of schools have blackboards;
*          In some states, schools are not in session for the prescribed number
of days;
The primary cycle is four or five years long, depending on states. Competencies tested are those expected by the end of
the next to last year of schooling (grades 3 or 4).
2 Identical studies were carried out in 24 districts in two additional states being considered for external financial support
from other sources.
These are provided to give a sense of the study results; initial cross tabulations run to 110 tables per district.
See Annex S for test scores.



- 79 -
Annex 4
Page 3
*        With the exception of Maharashtra, teaching is highly didactic and
not suitable for the prevalent multi-grade teaching situations;
*        There is considerable inter-state variation in pupils' ability to
understand the language of the teacher.
7.       The finding of the assessments suggest that low levels of learning are do more
to weak classroom processes and low quality of inputs (as opposed to the availability of
basic inputs). They support the general DPEP intervention strategies of improving the
quality of teaching and learning materials, with an emphasis on the early primary grades,
and of mobilizing community involvement in schools to reduce dropout.
Studies of Girls' Education
8.       Gender studies were undertaken in project districts to provide inputs into the
formulation of plans for girls' education and women's empowerment. The study process
was also used to mobilize and organize support for improvements in primary education
for girls.
9.       Design and methodologv. There are two parts to each study: (a) a review of
existing state and district policies and interventions for girls' education, including a
review of curricula and textbooks for gender bias; and (b) a largely qualitative field study
conducted through semi-structured interviews and group discussions with district and
block officials, teachers and community leaders, parents, girl students, girl dropouts and
girls who had never enrolled in schools. The field study focused on perceptions of
causes of continuing girls in school, of non-enrollment, of dropout, and of gender
equality in communities.
10.      Each study report also contains strategies and action plans based on the
findings of the research.
11.      Sample.  One of the three blocks selected at random  for the baseline
assessments of learning achievement was selected in each district. Within this block,
studies were conducted in eight villages.  For each block, interviews were completed
with 30-40 teachers, 50-60 girl students, 20-30 dropouts and students never enrolled and
20-25 school and community officials and administrators. Group discussions involved
on average 250 households per block. In total, approximately 15,000 parents and
neighbors, 650 teachers, 1100 students, 600 dropouts and never enrolled students and
500 administrators and officials participated in the studies.
12.      Selected findings.  The studies documented a wide variety of current
interventions intended to improve female enrollment and attendance, principally in the
form of incentives such as free books, uniforms and attendance allowances. Curriculum



- 80 -
Annex 4
Page 4
and textbook analyses indicated substantial gender bias: for example, grade 1 textbooks
in Assam have no illustrations of women and girls; in the class 2 mathematics textbook,
only boys names were used in examples and problems. DPEP support for curriculum
and textbook review and improvement would include preparation of gender fair textbook
and learning materials for the schools.
13.      Selected initial field study findings include:
*       low levels of women's participation in panchayats and other
community organizations;
with variation across districts, economic reasons (inability to pay
fees, girl needed for household work) were cited by parents as
causes of non-enrollment and dropout;
teachers are likely to cite low levels of parental education and
motivation as causes of non-enrollment and dropout;
discussions with parents reveal that teacher absenteeism  and
engagement of teachers in other duties make parents reluctant to
send girls to school;
*        interviews with girl students indicate that outright discrimination or
harassment by teachers is rarely cited as a reason for not attending
school.
14.      One of initial patterns emerging from these studies is that even within small
villages significant differences in perceptions regarding issues in girls education exist
among parents, girls and teachers. The DPEP strategy to establish or strengthen village
education committees, with at least one-third of the members being female, is intended
to help improve communication between teachers and parents, and parental interest in
helping to ensure that schools function properly.
Studies of ST Education
15.      Studies of the availability and use of educational services by ST children, and
of the attitudes of parents, teachers, community leaders and community members were
conducted by state and districts investigation teams trained and supervised by NCERT.
The study was carried out in five states proposed for IDA financing (the sixth, Haryana,
has no ST students).  At appraisal, data were available for Assam, Karnataka,
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The Kerala study would be completed by August, 1994.



- 81 -
Annex 4
Page 5
16.      Design and methodology. The study had two components in each state. The
first was a status report that summarizes secondary information on the demographics of
tribal peoples, the tribal development plan programs, and available educational schemes
and programs. The second was a field study carried out in blocks with highest ST
population in 2 of the baseline achievement study sample districts in four states, and one
baseline district in Maharashtra, for a total of 5 districts. Eight questionnaires were
administered by trained investigators to students, parents, community leaders, teachers,
and nonformal education instructors. Group discussions were also conducted in each
community and the results recorded in investigators' diaries.
17.      Sample. In nine project districts the blocks with the highest proportion of ST
population were selected for the field study. In these blocks, the ST population averages
25 percent of the total (the national average is 12 percent), with a range of 15 to 60
percent. There is one comparatively low density block (Kasargode in Kerala), where 04
percent of the total population is ST. Ten villages were selected within each block;
within each village, investigators conducted interviews with 12 students, 5-15 teachers
(depending on the number of schools), 10 parents, 2 male and 3 female community
members. Taking into account some variation in numbers across villages, the total
sample for the four completed studies consists of 70 villages, 840 students, 700 teachers
and nonformal education instructors, 700 parents, and 350 community members. For a
given block, the sample consisted of 120 students, 50-150 teachers, 100 parents, and 50
community members. Administrators, officials and community leaders participated in
group discussions.
18.      Selected findings. Selected findings from the draft synthesis report of state
studies include:
*        In all states, virtually all ST children have access to a primary
school in the village or within 1 km walking distance from the
village;
*        Hostels (Ashrams) for ST students were most frequently found in
villages in Maharashtra (90 percent) and Karnataka (50 percent);
availability in the remaining 2 states was 5-15 percent.
*        Relatively few of these Ashrams provide education on premise
(Assam - 0 percent; Karnataka - 15 percent; Tamil Nadu 30
percent. Maharashtra is an exception, with 60 percent of Ashrams
providing education on premise;
*        The proportion of villages with NGOs providing education services
varies (Maharashtra - 0 percent; Kamataka - 5 percent; Tamil Nadu
- 20 percent; Assam 40 percent).



- 82 -
Annex 4
Page 6
*        The proportion of females among teachers range from 05 percent
(Maharashtra) to 40 percent (Assam);
The percentage of teachers residing in or near the village ranges
from 50 percent (Maharashtra) to 75 percent (Assam and Tamil
Nadu);
The percentage of teachers citing problems in teaching ST children
ranged from 36 percent in Tamil Nadu to more than 70 percent in
Assam and Maharashtra); in Karnataka and Maharashtra, the most
frequently cited problem is that of language; in Assam and Tamil
Nadu, teachers most frequently cite the students "poor grasping
power. "
For girl ST students, the problem most frequently cited by teachers
is household work;
*        Three quarters or more of children have their textbooks, and most
express positive opinions of them;
*        As reported by parents, there is wide variation in the use of
dominant regional languages in the home (Tamil Nadu- 100 percent;
Karnataka - 79 percent; Assam - 54 percent; Maharashtra - 30
percent);
*        The proportion of teachers using ST languages in the classroom
varies (Tail Nadu - 4 percent; Karnataka - 25 percent; Assam - 30
percent; Maharashtra - 36 percent);
The proportion of parents preferring the use of ST languages in the
classroom ranged from less than 5 percent in Tamil Nadu to 12 -
15 percent in Assam, Maharashtra and Karnataka.
19.      These selected findings suggest that most ST students have access to schools,
but that family requirements for household labor reduce participation, especially for girls.
Language problems emerge as obstacles to effective classroom process in some states,
but not in others. In combination with the comparatively high proportion of teachers
residing outside of the school community, language problems suggest that lack of
communication in the classroom is an important problem in locations other than Tamil
Nadu.   However, parents generally prefer to have children taught in the regional
language. While further analysis is needed, the data suggest that DPEP could support
general strategies aimed at improving regional language skills of children in early



- 83 -
Annex 4
Page 7
primary grades. The variation across the blocks studies also suggests that some strategies
would need to be specific to the district and indeed to blocks. The initial strategies to
be supported by DPEP do vary across districts (see Annex 9: Education of Scheduled
Castes and Scheduled Tribes).
B. PROGRAM DESIGN STUDIES
20.      Previous studies conducted by NCERT and NIEPA, as well as studies
sponsored by IDA in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh had confirmed general understanding
that improvements in the quality of teaching and textbooks would need to be supported
by DPEP. In addition, DPEP Guidelines require that DPEP funding be additional to
real growth in state budgets for elementary education, and that recurrent costs of DPEP
supported activities would be sustainable by states on non-plan budgets at the end of the
project. To inform DPEP program design, studies were therefore carried out in all six
project states on teacher education, training and recruitment policies as well as teacher
motivation and problems; on textbook preparation and publication; and on state education
finances. These studies were carried out by state teams under the supervision of scholars
at NCERT and NIEPA according to terms of reference agreed reviewed by IDA.
Teacher Study
21.      NCERT carried out an analysis of policies relating to teacher education,
training and recruitment policies supplemented by a field study of a sample of teachers
in DPEP districts to gather information on teacher motivation and problems faced by
teachers.
22.      Design and methodologv. Documentation of state policy (both in theory and
practice) was done by analyzing government orders and procedural guidelines as well as
by interviewing members of the SCERT faculty, District and Block Education Officers.
In order to analyze the district-level facilities, the DIET or the appropriate teacher
training institute was visited. In order to study teacher in-service training needs and
perceptions, a sample of teachers were interviewed.  Guidelines were developed to
interview educational administrators regarding the state policies towards teachers. An
interview schedule administered to the faculty of the SCERT was used to collect
information regarding the manner of in-service training needs assessment procedure and
its role in the training of teachers. An interview schedule for District/Block Education
Officers was used to assess the academic support provided by them to teachers and their
views regarding the in-service training needs of primary school teachers. A training
institution information schedule was developed to assess the facilities of the DIET or
other teacher training institutions. An interview schedule was administered to the sample
teachers.



- 84 -
Annex 4
Page 8
23.      The instruments were pre-tested on a small sample of teachers and at one
DIET. The research team developed a simple training-cum-field manual which was used
by the field team. Field work was carried out by a team of 3 field investigators and
senior consultants were appointed to collect data from the state authorities and teacher
training institutes.
24.      Sample. For the interviews with teachers, two project districts in each of the
states were selected purposively; the criteria for selection were the existence of a DIET
and whether the district was a tribal district. One block in each district and one school
complex within each district were selected randomly. One urban area (the district
headquarters) was also studied. In states which do not have the system of school
complexes, primary schools in the catchment area of a secondary school were treated as
a cluster of schools. In each district, the sample size was restricted to 100 teachers,
distributed across rural and urban areas using the proportion of rural and urban
population. Where the number of teachers was fewer than 100, teachers from the
adjacent school complex were included in the sample. In all, 1,200 teachers were
interviewed in 12 districts of the 6 DPEP states.
25.      Selected findings. Selected findings from the study include:
*        Several states have upgraded the minimum academic qualifications
required by teachers to 12 years (Haryana, Maharashtra and Tamil
Nadu); however, the existing stock of teachers includes a number
of teachers with only 10 and in some cases just 8 years of
education. About 15 percent of teachers in Assam, 10 percent on
Maharashtra and 03 percent in Kerala (mostly Urdu/Arabic
teachers) have less than 10 years of schooling.
*        With the exception of Assam, all states require primary school
teachers to obtain a diploma in teacher training. Between 95-99
percent of teachers in the system in these states are already trained.
In Assam, the proportion of untrained teachers is as high as 42
percent (35,000).
*        In general, there is an excess supply of teachers in all states except
in Assam, where supply falls short of demand and in Haryana,
where demand and supply are more or less in equilibrium.
*        Recruitment procedures vary from  state to state. State-wide
recruitment by a central authority is carried out in Assam, Haryana,
Kerala and Tamil Nadu but teachers are normally appointed within
their own districts. In Kamataka and Maharashtra, recruitment is
carried out at the district level.



- 85 -
Annex 4
Page 9
*        Only Haryana, a relatively small state which is well connected by
public transport, offers an additional allowance for posting in rural
and unserved areas. Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu offer a hill
area allowance but it is unclear whether this is sufficient to
compensate teachers for the additional costs of moving to such
areas. As a result, many vacant posts in remote rural areas and hilly
tracts remain unfilled for long periods of times.
*        Compulsory transfer of teachers is practiced in Maharashtra,
Karnataka and Haryana after every 3-5 years, following the general
rules of the civil service. This policy may lead to teacher
dissatisfaction and impose an additional economic burden on them
for which they are not compensated. In the other states, teachers are
transferred either on request or on administrative grounds alone.
*        In Maharashtra, the official policy calls for teachers to be posted at
least 25 kilometers away from their residence. However, since there
are usually no residential facilities in rural areas, especially for
female teachers, many teachers prefer to stay in nearby towns and
commute long distances every day.
*        In all the states, teachers in government and aided schools are given
regular appointments on salary scales that are linked to the civil
service pay structure. Assam alone allows for teachers to be
appointed on an ad hoc basis on a consolidated salary (which
amounts to about one-half the salary of regular teachers) until they
secure their training.
*        Salary increments are related solely to seniority. No state provides
for rewarding effective teachers, although good teachers are given
public recognition through teachers' awards.
*        Despite the recent revisions in the pre-service teacher education
curriculum, theory accounts for 40-60 percent of prescribed course
time, the remaining being allotted to practice teaching The course
content does not reflect the teaching of practical skills such as
multi-grade teaching or the teaching of reading, nor is it
meaningfully related to the Minimum Levels of Learning
competency-based approach to curriculum transaction.
*        In most states, only about 10 percent of the teachers receive in-
service training annually.



- 86 -
Annex 4
Page 10
*        Facilities for in-service training programs are usually restricted to
the district headquarters. Only Karnataka and Maharashtra offer
training programs that are delivered at the block level, while there
is no systematic training program at the school complex level.
*        In Kerala, the proportion of female teachers exceeds that of male
teachers, while in Haryana and Tamil Nadu, the proportions are
roughly equal. In Assam females comprise about 23-25 percent of
the teaching force.
*        Most in-service courses lasted between 8 to 15 days.  Subject
matter training and general methods of teaching dominated the
content of these programs. In some districts, between 25-30 percent
of teachers who had received in-service training said they could not
change their classroom practices as a result of the training due to
non-availability of the required material, heavy work load and
irrelevance of training. There was no training in multi-grade
teaching, the preparation and use of teaching aids.
*        An overwhelming percentage of teachers (usually over 90 percent)
reported the need for in-service training.
*        In order to improve the efficacy of training programs, the majority
of teachers listed consultation with them regarding their training
needs, and providing support to them in implementing new
ideas/innovations acquired during training programs, the availability
of competent resource persons as the most important factors.
*        On the whole, teachers in Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and
Tamil Nadu felt that the social status of teachers has improved over
the last decade. In Assam and Haryana, half or more of the teachers
felt that their status had declined.
*        Most teachers also felt that their economic status was 'reasonable'
although most said that they could not meet all the needs of their
family with their salary income alone. The majority of teachers
owned a house (though some had inherited the house and had not
acquired through their own earnings) and a bicycle.
*        Less than 20 percent of teachers had been promoted sometime
during their career and the majority said that they had no chance of
being promoted.



- 87 -
Annex 4
Page I 1
*        Female teachers in remote districts cited the difficulty of getting
residential accommodation as one of their main problems. The lack
of separate toilets was also another commonly highlighted problem.
*        A high proportion of teachers also reported that the apathy of
parents towards their children's education as one of their problems.
Relatively few teachers reported academic guidance and support
from district and block education officers.
26.      DPEP would initially focus on improving in-service teacher training is a major
component of DPEP, including development of training infrastructure to the block and
school complex level. The study suggests that, in addition, that states would have to
undertake a comprehensive review of policies towards pre-service education, admission
criteria, recruitment and remuneration procedures and introducing methods for
systematically assessing training needs. While teachers are apparently not dissatisfied
with their economic or social status, female teachers and teachers in remote areas do face
particular problems which must be addressed. These issues, however, would take some
time to resolve. DPEP would support the continuing discussion of policy options.
Textbooks
27.      Three separate studies were undertaken to obtain comparative information on
textbook provision from the states involved and likely to become involved in DPEP. With
the help of funding from UNICEF, the staff of National Council for Education Research
and Training (NCERT) and the IDA textbook specialist developed the terms of reference
and instruments for the studies.  Study teams in each project state participated in
implementation of the reviews.
28.      Design and methodologv. Two assessments were completed. The first was
a Study on the Designing, Production and Distribution of Instructional Materials and
NFE Materials. It contained a comprehensive series of questions on a wide range of
aspects of textbook development, production and distribution. These included details of
the organizational structure in the states, the number of titles produced and the number
of languages involved, the physical characteristics of the books, sources and costs of
manuscript development and review, sources and costs of illustration and design,
processes, sources and costs of production, book pricing formulae, discounts, distribution
methods, finance - particularly relating to subsidy and free textbook provision - and
distribution in each state.  The second was a Study of Paper and Infrastructure for
Printing. This covered sources of paper, printing and binding in greater detail and
sought further information on distribution outlets. Data gathering instruments for both
studies were completed by research teams under the supervision of NCERT staff.



- 88 -
Annex 4
Page 12
29.      Additionally, all states were asked to submit copies of their full range of
primary textbooks. These were reviewed by a team of experts and given ratings for the
quality of their design and production.
30.      Selected findings. Selected findings from the two studies include:
*        In many states the relationships between the various
entities that develop curriculum, develop textbooks,
publish textbooks and distribute textbooks are imprecise
and there is no effective overall management structure.
This may result in poor textbook quality (content,
presentation and production), delays and inefficiency in
textbook supply and excessive cost in textbook provision
as a whole.
*        In  some  States the  flow  of funds for textbook
manufacture and supply is slow and Textbook
Corporations or their equivalent are obliged to borrow
working capital at high rates of interest.
*        Almost all States keep textbook prices relatively low by
economizing on the quality of paper, printing and
binding. Some States also subsidize textbook production
and distribution. The formulae used to arrive at book
selling prices rarely take into account all the costs
incurred in development, manufacture and distribution.
*        There is a trend to supplying free primary textbooks not
only to SCs and STs but also to all girls and,
increasingly frequently, to all children.
*        Although textbook publishing is a specialized industry
and the States are large scale publishers, the skill levels
of those employed by the States are not high and most
States have insufficient or no specialist staff.
*        Not all primary  school textbooks are written and
reviewed by practicing primary school teachers. Virtually
no primary textbooks are trialled before their
introduction throughout a State.
*        Authors,  reviewers  and  illustrators  are  poorly
remunerated.



- 89 -
Annex 4
Page 13
There is wide variation from State to State in the number
of pages considered appropriate for a specific subject at
a specific Class level.
The quality of typesetting, illustration, page layout, book
design and production of the majority of the States'
primary textbooks received ratings of 'average' or
'poor'.
*        Textbooks are expected to last no longer than one year.
As yet, no State plans to raise textbook quality and
encourage book re-use.
*        With  the  exception  of some  titles published  by
Maharashtra and Assam all primary textbooks are wire
stitched. For lower Classes two or four color printing is
used by most States.
.States that are obliged to use State owned printing
resources generally have greater difficulty in containing
costs and in making books available at the beginning of
the school year than States that are free to use whichever
printers they choose.
*        States are not as successful in providing textbooks for
children speaking minority languages as they are in
providing them for children speaking the principal
language or languages of the State.
*        The methods used by states for arriving at the number of
textbooks to print are haphazard and frequently lead to
unacceptable shortages or surpluses.
*        Retailing and distribution are handled by the States in a
variety of different ways. Some States use only private
sector resources, others use only public sector. Those
States that use a combination of private and public sector
generally do better in reaching all parts of the state with
new textbooks in time for the start of the school year.
31.      These issues have been addressed in all project states through textbook quality
improvement programs financed by DPEP.



- 90 -
Annex 4
Page 14
State Education Finances
32.      Analyses of trends in education financing and expenditures on education from
the beginning of the Sixth Plan were completed by state teams following guidelines
prepared by NIEPA and the Department of Education. The guidelines called for the
financial data necessary to address the ability of states to finance their shares of the
proposed These were revised several times in light of comments received from NIEPA,
DOE and IDA consultants. Final versions were produced at a workshop in New Delhi
in January, 1994. The data provided by the state reports have been reanalyzed by the
DOE and IDA consultants.
33.      Selected findings.  The findings of the finance studies are summarized in
Annex 15: Public Finances and Education Expenditures in the Six IDA/DPEP States).
Continuing Use of the Studies
34.      Analysis of baseline achievement assessment would continue during the first
year of the project. Results of all beneficiary studies are to be discussed with officials
and community members in each project district. The outcomes of the discussions,
together with study findings, would be used to refine and adjust intervention strategies
in the second year of the project.
35.      Program  design studies have largely been taken into account in DPEP
objectives and work programs. Textbook development programs fully incorporate
recommendations of the study. The in-service teacher training program similarly builds
on findings from the teacher study.  However, the broader implications of the teacher
study for pre-service education, teacher posting policy and teacher career paths would
need widespread discussion with states before change could be considered.



- 91 -
Annex 5
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Development Objectives. Indicators and Monitoring
1.  Measurement of progress towards the achievement of development objectives is a
key feature of the DPEP management structure. To facilitate measurement objectives,
indicators and monitoring procedures have been designed for key selected program
emphases: (a) capacity building at national and state levels; (b) reducing dropout and
improving access; and (c) improving learning achievement.
Capacity Building
2.  National and state capacity building objectives and indicators are shown in Annex
5 Tables 1-7. The indicators focus on observable outcomes of the capacity building
process.  Progress would be monitored by the DPEP Bureau and by IDA through
periodic supervision reports and through the reviews of program implementation carried
out annually as part of the work program and budgeting exercise. In addition, evaluation
studies would be commissioned to assess the impact of key activities.
Reducing Dropout and Increasing Access
3.  The program is intended to reduce overall dropout rate to less than 10 percent over
baseline estimates, and to reduce disparities among gender and social groups to less than
5 percent. Current retention rates and enrollments, by gender and caste, provide the
baselines against which progress would be measured (Annex 5 Table 8). The number
of dropouts to be averted and the number of new places to be created are shown in
Annex 5 Table 9. Progress would be measured through school statistics on an annual
basis.
Improving Learning Achievement
4.  Learning achievement in language and mathematics in the final year of primary
school would increase by 25 percent over baseline estimates. Test parameters are shown
in Annex 5 Tables 5A and 5B. Readers should note that primary education lasts four
years in Assam, Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra; and 5 years in Haryana and Tamil
Nadu. Different tests were used for grades 4 and 5, with different numbers of items.
Baseline average raw test scores (number correct) are shown in Annex 5 Table 11 and
the number of students to benefit from improved instruction is estimated in Annex 5
Table 9. The learning achievement figures have been derived from the sample-based
learning achievement studies conducted in all project districts (See Annex 4 for a
complete description of the assessment studies).  Progress in improving learning
achievement would be measured by repeat surveys in the third and sixth year of the project.



- 92 -
Annex 5
Page 2
Table 1: National Capacity Buildini Objectivns and Indictors
Objectives                   Nodal        Implement.                         Indicators                                    End of Project Status
I I DPEP Bureau would be fully          DOE           DPEP             Number of appraisals                                140 sub-projects annually
functional                                            Bureau           Number of supervision missions                   J  140 sub-projects twice annually
1.2 School Staiisiics MIS               DPEP          DPEP             Software platform adopted and installed             In all DPEP states
computerized io district level          Bureau        Bureau           MIS facilities established and equipped             National MIS cell. 6 states, 23 districts
NIEPA
Staff training                                      50 system mianagers
60 computer operutors
100 district and block supervisors
10,000 school headmasters
Frequency of reports                                Twice annually
MIS syterm effectivenes and efficiency              Evaluatdion study in third yer of project wUIl
show S5 perent aecuracy of school statistics
1.3 National Training Resource          DPEP          NCERT            Number and quality of training designs              6 completed, including multi-grade teaching and
Group established to support state      Bureau        State                                                                minimum levels of learning (MLL)
and district training activities for:                 institutions     Number and quality of prototype training modules    12 complete and tratslated into 6 regionral
o Teachers                                          (SCERTs,                                                              languqes
o Head Teahers                                       DIETS)          Number and quality of master trairer programs        24 completed in NCERT and SCERTs
o Cluster Resource Teams                                              Number of TA missiotm to states                     100 completed
o Muster Trainers                                                     Number of joint activities with SCERTs              6 per state
Impact of training on teacher performance           A serks of evalution studis will show
improved dm,roean teaching procesam for
Iro than 50% of trained tachrs        
1 4 DPEP Program  Evaluation            DPEP          NCERT            Number of research training programs                24 completed
Research and Studies established to     Bureau
assess DPEP program strategies and                                     Number and quality of Learning achievement          Completed in third and sinth yeau of project in
impact and build evaluation research                                   studies                                             23 districts; studies in additional districts
capacity in state institutioms|                                                                                            joining the program
Completed in first, fourth and seventh year of
Multi-variate analysis of achievement data using    project
school effectiveness models
50 commissioned and completed
Number and quality of Evaluation and research
studies                                             Issued twice annually
6 completed and results publisbhed
Frequency of Research newsletter
Frequency of Research conferences
1.5 Program of Technical Assistance    DPEP           NIEPA            Number and quality of prototype training modules    10 completed and in regional laguages,
to States in Education Planning and     Bureau                                                                             including inter Ilia micro-planning, district
Management established to develop                                                                                          program  mnagement, school supervision, state
capacity in State mIsituttes of                                        Number of trainer training programs                 program nmagement
Educational Management and                                                                                                 24 completed with counterpart state agencies
Training to train state and district
officials.



- 93 -
Annex 5
Page 3
1.6 Program for Reading Skills and    DPEP          NCERT           Number and quality of reading studies completed   Micro-amlysis of baselire achievement data
Comprehension Enhancement             Bureau        SCERTs                                                            completed
(RSCE) established to                              and other                                                          Reading readiness study completed
o assess reading readiness for                    state                                                             Reading difficulties study completed
Grade I and reading difficulties in              agencies and
Grade 2.                                         research        Number and quality of prototype instructional     Prototype RSCE materials package completed
o identify best practices in India                institutions    materials prepared
and internationally
o develop reading research capacity                                Extent of adaptation and use by states            Development teams trained in each state
o develop field tested exemplar                                                                                      Regional language adaptations of RSCE field
reading materials                                                                                                  tested amd in use in 6 states
o encourage exchange of materials
among states                                                     Impact of new materials on learning achievement   Eviduation studies using baseline ffesnent
o buid capacity for reading                                                                                         tests and experinental design will show at
program development in state                                                                                       iCast a 25% incrte in reading
institutions                                                                                                       cotnprehension  and word knowledge in
CGrade 2.
1 7 Mathematics Activity Program      DPEP          NCERT and       Number and quality of prototype materials         Best practices paper published
(MAP) established to:                 Bureau        SCERTs                                                            Complete MAP package field tested and
o assess barriers to mathematics                  and other                                                         published
achievement in Grades I and 2                    state           Number of state development teams established     Development reams functioning in 6 states
o identify bent practice in India and             institutions
internationally for teaching                                     Extent of adaptation and use in states            MAP adaptations in use in regional languages
numbers and basic operations                                                                                       in 6 states
o develop prototype mathematics
instructional activities and                                     Impact of new materuias on learning achievement   EvaluatIdon studies using experimentd design
materials                                                                                                          will show at letit a 25% Increase In
o build capacity in state resource                                                                                  mathemntkis achievement in Grade 2.
institutiom to adapt and further
develop MAP activities and
materials
18 Program for Instructional         DPEP          NCERT and       Availability of revised curricula                 In 6 states
Materials Renewal established to:     Bureau        SCERTs
| o document R&D experience with                  and other       Utilization of new textbooks, workbooks and       In use in all schools in 23 districts; teachers
MLL for curTiculum and                          state           teachers guides                                   prepared through in-service training
textbook development                            institutions
o establish criteria for review of
curricula and textbooks                                         Use of improved techniques for textbooks and      Each state textbook writing process imcludes:
o develop an MLL curriculum                                       learning materials development
design with provisions for                                                                                          o Teachers as textbooks writers
children with special needs (ST,                                                                                    o Field trials of textbooks followed by
first genration learnrs,                                                                                               revisions
disabled)
o develop and test prototype                                      Impact of new materials on learning achievement   Evaluation studies will show an increase of
textbooks, workbooks and                                                                                          25 percent In word knowledge, reading
teacher guides                                                                                                    comprdiensleon and mnatibsatkcs aclhievemenst
o build capacity for curriculum                                                                                     in the in  year of primnary school.
and textbook renewal in states
1 9 Program of Special Emphasis       DPEP         To be           Increase in the number of tribal languages in      To be determined.
for ST Educat,on established          Bureau        determined      which primary instructional materials available
Increase in the number of ST persons in training
as teachers
Availability of evaluations and documentation of
effective intervention strategies for ST learners



- 94 -
Annex 5
Page 4
Table 2: Set Ca kty B        _di    Obetives   d Iudlers
Assam
O'sepddi                    Nodal    J          _lumen.                    Idlatens                                    End of Projet Stas|
l~~~~~~~~~~~ Aq-   Ag_c
State lmplementaon Sodety           Stale           APSAP           Achievement of implementaton tLarget              Average 90 percent of annual physical targets
fully fundixral                     Educttion                                                                         and expenditures across state activities and
Department                                                                        districu
Assm Prathamik Shikbaa                                              Number of supervision miatot. to districts        Each district, four times anrimxily
Achani Parisbad (APSAP)                                             Disbursement requests                             Quarterly from second year of project
Annual Reporu and Work Plan and Budget           10 percent on time
Sutbmisiomt
;~-.                                  .=
State SchooI Statistics MIS         APSAP           Sttse           Software platform adopted and installed           (By end project year II
established                                         Departnent      MIS facilities estabished and equipped            (By end project year I1
of fEuation
Cooperating National Prgrn:                                         Staff training                                    By end of project, initial and refresher:
o DPEP Burs                                                                                                            6 administrators
o TA In Educatsd Planning                                                                                              6 programrmers and operators
and Maaugset                                                        Frequency of repors                                3 systems analysts/training officers
Conformnce with GOI data requiremenat             Quarterly
100 percent
Strengthen Assam State Textbook     APSAP           ASTPPC          Improved efficiency in textbook publication
Production and Publication                                                                                            Cottraction of DTP room complete
Corporation (ASTPPC)
10 professionals plus supporl staff appointed and
Facilities developed                              trained
CooperatIng NatIol Prorrns:
o Propr.m for lIstxmedom                                            Staffing                                          Textbook trialling introduced
Matessrl  and Tesibook Renewal                                                                                        Training completed for curriculum developers.
o RSCE                                                                                                                authors, editors, illustraton  evaluators,
o MAP                                                               Quality of textbook development promss            designers and productio  and distribution staff
improved
New MLL textbooks published and in use in all
project districts
Qusatliy of textbooks improved                    New Student Workbooks and Teacher Guides in
Availability of auxiliary instructional material  use in all schools in project districts
Strengthen State Council for        APSAP           SCERT           Staff caxcity enhanced                            10 professionals appointed to Primary
Educational Research and                                                                                              Curriculum, In-service Training and Research
Training (SCERT) to:                                                                                                  and Evaluation Wings. Stff trained by NCERT
o Improve primary pre-service
teacher training
o Adapt NCERT prototype                                             Mauter trainers developed for primsary teacher in-  30 tratined and working
training resource materials for use                                service training and ECCE
at state, district and
school/community level                                              Pre-primary Teacher Training Center (Dlburgarh)   Building repairs and renovations completed
o Train master trainers                                             strengthened
o Conduct Research Studies                                                                                            4 evaluation studies of DPEP activities completed
o Support ECCE Programs
Evaluation caaity strengthened
Cooperating Natonl Propss:
o RSCE
o MAP
o Training Resource Grop
o Center for Pripun
Evaluation Research and StudI_



- 95 -
Annex 5
Page 5
Establish Stale Inslitule for        APSAP            SCERT/SIE        Facilities constructed and equipped                 Training room, hostel, administrative offices
Educational Planning and                                                                                                   completed, equipped and in use.
Administration as a wing In the
State Imtitute of Education (itself                                    Staff development                                   II professional staff appointed and trained by
part of SCERT) to develop and                                                                                              NIEPA and other inraiiutions
implement management training
Number and quality of training programs             Materials developed and training programs
provided to regionalidistrict staff, block
Cooperaeing National Progranst                                                                                             education staff and trainers, education extension
a Training Resource Group                                                                                                  officers and adminisrative officers of school
a Technical Assistance in                                                                                                  boards, heads of DIETS and primary teacher
Planning  nd X                                                                                                             training institutes, headteachers. community
leaders (total 1200 persons)



- 96 -
Annex 5
Page 6
Table 3: State Capadty Bulding Objecti  and IndCats
Objectives             J    Nodal      J Implement.                           lnd_i_stm                                   End of    _e_ S_t_u
|                         |   ~~~~~~~~~~~ApnrZy  AgencyIrI
State Implementation Society fully  State            HPSPP           Achievement of implemenutdon targets               Average 90 percent of annual physcal tarets
functional                          Education                                                                           and expenditures acrou state stivities nd
Department                                                                          districts
Hiaryans Prathbnik Shiksha                                           Nuniber of supervision missios to districu          Each district, four times anunualy
Pariyojsaa Parishad (IHPSP)                                         Disbursemert requests                               Qurtrly from secornd year of projet
Annual Reports and Work Plan and Budget            100 percent on time
Submission
State School Statistics MIS         HPSPP            State           Software piatform adopted and imtalled             [By end projcct year 1
established                                          Department      MIS facilities established and equipped             [By end project year l)
of Education
Cooperatinlg National Prograissu                                      Staff training                                     By end of project, initial and refresher:
o DPEP Bureau                                                                                                            10 administrators
o TA In Educational Planniig                                                                                             10 progranummes ad opertor
and Management                                                       Frequenry of repors                                  3 systems anmystsAtraining officers
Conformancec with GOI dta requirements             Quaerly
100 percent
Establish Haryana Textbook          HPSPP            HTB             Facilities developed                               Contrtution tun equipping coniplete
Board (HTB) to
o have full respomibility for                                        Staffing                                            20 professiomnas plus support staff appointed and
preparation. production and                                                                                              trained
distribution of textbooks and                                        Quality of textbook development prous
related materials for classes 1-8                                    improved                                           Textbook trialling introduced
o regulate and fix prices of                                                                                            Training completed for curriculum developers.
textbooks and materials                                                                                                 authors, editorn  illuatrtors. evaluatam,
o enter into agreements with                                                                                             designers and production and distribution staff
authors, editors, arutists, printers,
distributors and other entities in
pursuit of HTB objectives                                            Quality of textbooks improved                       New MLL textbooks in ste in all project districts
o ensure better design,                                              Availability of auxiliary inttruetional material
illustrations, production quality                                                                                       New Student Workbooks and Teacher Guides in
and distribution of textbooks                                                                                           use in all schools in project districts
Cooperating National Programs:
o Program  for Instrutcdonal
Material and Textbook Renewal
o RSCE
o MAP
Strengthen State Couneil for        HPSPP            SCERT           Staff capacity enharneed                           Three professionls, two fellows tnd support
Educational Research and                                                                                                staff appointed and trained by NCERT
Training (SCERT) to:
o Improve primary pre-service                                        Fecilities improved                                Re-equipped
teacher training
o Adapt NCERT prototype                                              Muter trainers developed                            60 trained and working
training resource materials for use
at state, district and                                               EvaluaLtion capacity stretgthened                   10 evaluation studies of DPEP activities
school/community level                                                                                                  -nmlt
o Train master traimrsI
o Conduct Research Studies                                           ECCE professional aupport services enhaneed        ECCE cell established with 2 proftu iotl staff
o Support ECCE Programs                                                                                                 Prototype learnug materials develoead
Training ma tsua for ECCE worken primed and
Cooperating Natioal Progrinss:                                                                                          in toe (5000 copies)
o RSCE
o MAP
o Training Resource Group
o Center for Progrun
Evaluation Research and Studies



- 97 -
Annex 5
Page 7
Establish Haryatu  Iratitute for     HPSPP            HIEPA            Facilities contructed antd equipped                 Administrative, training, hostel, staff quarters.
Edaursl Planning and                                                                                                       audio-visual center buildings completed and in
Administrtuion (HIEPA) at                                                                                                  ue.
Gurpon to:
o Develop att implement                                                Staff development                                   22 professional staff appointed and trained by
mtugerkenr training                                                                                                        NIEPA and other institutions
o Manpge research and evaluation
activities
Number and quality of training prograsn             Materials developed and 80 training programs
provided to regional/district staff, block
Coapersig Nalonal Programs:                                                                                                education staffand trairers. education extension
o TtaIning Resource Group                                                                                                  officers and administrative officers of school
o Cnler for P.  1                                                                                                          boards, heads of DIETS and primary teacher
E,uklm  Rewarchb and Studias                                                                                               training institutes, headteachers, community
o Tedsa Asitance Li                                                                                                        leaders and supervisory staff.
Pannn  and Man _gesnt
Number and quality of Learning achievement          Completed in third and sixth year of project in 3
studies                                             districts: studies in additional districts joining the
program
Multi-variate analysis of achievement date Lning    Completed in seventh year of project
school effetiveness models
Number and qulity of Evaluation and research        10 coanmissioned and completed
studies
Extent of research utilization                      3 studies presented at national conferences
All studies discussed with district implementation
teams and HPSPP Council
Publication of quarterly research bulletin



- 98 -
Annex 5
Page 8
Tabk 4: State Capaity Building ObJctives and Indicators
Karnataka
ObjeCives             |    Nodal    |  Implement.                          Indkator5                    |              End of Project Status
Agency    I    Agency    I                                                       I 
State Implementation Society fully    State         KPSVY           Achievement of implementation targets             Average 90 percent of annual physical targets
functional                          Education                                                                         and expenditures across state acivities and
Departnfent                                                                       districts
Karrsnataka Prathltnika                                             Number of supervision missions to districts       Each district, four times annually
Shikshan  Vikas Yojana                                              Disbursement requests                             Quarterly from second year of project
(KPSVY)
Annual Reports and Work Plan and Budget           100 percent on time
l                         _                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Subm issions
State School Statistics MIS         State           KPSVY           Softrware platform adopted and intalled           [By end project year I1
established                         Education                       MIS facilities established and equipped           [By end project year 11
Department
Cooperating National Programns:                                     Staff training                                    By end of project, initial and refresher
o DPEP Bureau                                                                                                          6 administrators
o TA in Educatonal Planning                                                                                            6 programmers and operators
and Mnagenent                                                       Frequency of reports                               3 systems aralysxs/tramning officers
Conformance with G01 data requirements            Quarterly
100 percent
Strengthen Department of State      KPSVY           DSERT           Quality of textbook development process           Textbook trialling introduced
Educational Research and                                           improved                                           Training completed for curriculum developers,
Training (DSERT) to develop and                                                                                       authrs, editors, illustratos, evaluators,
publish trw MLL textbooks and                                                                                         designers and production and distribution staff
related materials
Prodaction and distribution capacity enhanced     Desktop publishing capacity installed and fully
Cooperating National Program:                                                                                         utilized
o Programn for Instrucaltona                                                                                          Production. stock and distribution control
Material and Textbook Rnewwal                                                                                         systems compurerired
o RSCE
o MAP                                                               Quality of tixtbooks improved                     New MLL textbooks published and in use in all
Availability of auxiliary irstructiorial material  project districts
Strengthen DSERT to improve         KPSVY           DSERT           Increase physical capacity                        Conference hall consiructed and equipped;
primary pre-service teacher                                                                                           documentation center and library upgraded;
traixing|                                                                                                             computer unit established and equipped
o Develop and administer distance
learning course for untrained                                       Materials development capacity improved           NCERT materials adapted and tested; additional
serving teachers                                                                                                      state-specific materials developed in Kannada and
o Adapt/translate prototype                                                                                           minority languages
NCERT training modules
o Train master trainers                                             Master trainers developed for primary teacher in-  25 master trainers trained and working in DlIETs
service training                                  and BRCs
Cooperating National Programns:
o Training Resousre Group
Suengthen DSERT capacity for        KPSVY           DSERT           Research network capacity development             At least 15 research/evaluation studies
educatiomal research and                                                                                              commissioned by KPSVY completed involving at
evaluation by creatinrg a network                                                                                    last 5 institutions
of research agencies and
supporting research in universities                                                                                   Data bane of research studies functioning in
DSERT research coordination capacity              DSERT
strengthened
University educational research output expanded    I 10 doctoral studies completed



- 99 -
Annex 5
Page 9
Establish network of instrtutiorns  KPSVY            DSERT           Number ad quality of training motduks and          Materials developed, tested and revised and in
under the coordination of the State                                  trainer peogrars:                                  use. Five initial atd refresher training progTams
Department of State Educational                                      IIM - for administrative staff                     for 25 mtauer trainers completed.
Research and Training (DSERT)                                        ISEC - for headleachers
to develop and implment                                              ATI - for VEC members                              Training programs provided to district and block
management training:                                                                                                    education staff and trainers, heatds of DIETS and
primTry teacher training institutes. headteachers.
Materials Development and                                                                                               and VEC membern (total 2000 pernons. 50
Traier Trainina                                                      Number and quality of training programr            coures)
Indian Intstitute of Management
(IIM) (Bangalore)                                                                                                       Ten compeIted; 3 presenred at national
Institute of Social and Economic                                                                                        conferences
Change (ISEC) (Bangalore)
Administrative Training Institute                                                                                       Completed in third and sixth year of project in 5
(ATI) (Mysore)                                                       Number and quality of research studies             dsirctu; studies in additional districts joining the
Training Delivery:                                                                                                      program
DSERT. DIETs. BRCs
Number and quality of learning achievenent
Cooperating National Program:                                        studies
o Training Resource Group
o Teciricha   Assistance in
Panning and Manamsent



- 100 -
Annex 5
Page 10
Table 5: State Capackty Buiding Obsectis,es and IndkMors
Tanil Nadu
Objectives            [     NodalU      Implenent.                         Indkators                                   End of Project StatusJ
I AFncy           Agenkcy    II
State Implementation Society fully    State         TNEFA           Achievement of implementation targets             Average 90 percent of annual physical targets
functional                         Education                                                                          and expenditures across state activiies and
Departm.ent                                                                       districts
Tamni Nadu State Mission of                                         Number of supervision missions to districts       Each district, four times annually
Educaton fat AU (TNEFA)                                             Disbursement requests                             Quarterly fTom second year of project
Annual Reports and Woek Plan and Budget           100 percent on time
Submissions
State School Statistics MIS        TNEFA            TNEFA           Software platform adopted and installed           [By end project year 11
established                                                         MIS facilities established and equipped           [By end project year 11
Cooperating Nadonal Progranis:                                      Staff training                                    [By end of project year 2:
o DPEP Bureau                                                                                                          4 system managers
o TA In Educaional Planning                                                                                            10 computer operatorsl
nd Managemnent                                                     Frequency of reporu                               Quarterly
Conformance with GOI data requirements            100 percent
Tamil Nadu Textbook Corpration    TNEFA             TNTBC           Qutlity of textbook development process           Textbook trialting introduced
(TNTBC) Strengthened to develop                                     improved                                          Training completed for curriculum developers.
and publish new MLL textbooks                                                                                         authors, editos, illustratos, designers and
production and distribution staff
Cooperating National Prograst:
o Progratu  for Instructional
Material and Textbook Renewall                                      Production and ditribution capacity enhanced      Desktop publishing capacity installed and fully
utilized
Production, stock and distribution control
systems computerized
Quality of textbooks improved                     New MLL textbooks published and in uxe in all
project districts
Availability of auxiliary instructional material  New Student Workbooks and Teacher Guides in
improved                                          use in a11 schools in project districts
Establish Division for Educational  TNEFA           DTERT           Staff Development                                 Four professionals appointed and trained by
Research, Evaluation and                                                                                              NCERT/CPERS
Monitoring established in
Directorate of Teacher Education,
Research and Training (DTERT)                                       Number and quality of Learning achievement        Completed in third and sixth year of project in 3
to conduct educational research nd                                 studies                                            districts; studies in additional districts joining the
evaluation.                                                                                                           program
Cooperating Notional Progran:                                       Multi-variate analysis of achievement data using  Completed in seventh year of project
Center for Program Evaluation                                       school effectiveness models
Research and Studies (NCERT)
Number and quality of Evaluation and research     10 commissioned and completed
studies
Extent of research utilization                    3 studies presented at national conferences
All studies discussed with district implementation
teama and TNEFA Council



- 101 -
Annex 5
Page 11
Establish Division for Educational  TNEFA            DTERT           Training Facilities established and equipped in    [By end project year 21
Planning, Management arnd                                            DTERT
Training in DTERT to train state                                                                                        4 professionals appointed and trained by NIEPA
and district staff                                                   Staff development
Cooperaing Nadonal Preigrams:                                        Number and scope of training programs              20 completed and in regional language,
o Training Resttrc Group                                                                                                 inctldirig nter alta micro-planning, district
o TA In Eductional Pbanning                                                                                              program management, school supervision, state
and Mxan    ent                                                                                                          program management
Establish Center for Maths.         TNEFA            DTERT           Staff development                                  6 trained in RCE and MAP courses
Sctence and Langtuage in DTERT
to adapt anud further develop
prototype learning matertals                                         Extent of ataptation and use of prototype
materials developed by RSCE and MAP
Cooperaing Natoda Progprxs:                                          Impact of new materials on learning achievement
o RSCE
o MAP
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 102 -
Annex 5
Page 12
Table 6: State Capaty Bu rding Objedtia and Indkators
Mahbrashtra
Objcfln|    Nodal                       | Itnpsnent.  |                       Indkators                      |               End of Project Status
I Agecy            Agncy       II
State Implementation Society fully   State            MPSP             Achievement of implementation targets               Average 90 percent of annual physical targets
fuictional                           Education                                                                             and expenditures across state acivities and
Departrnenm                                                                           districts
Maiarashbrs Prhatinik                                                  Number of supervision missions to districts         Each district, four times annually
Shikshan Parishad (MPSP)                                               Disbursement requests                               Quarierly from second year of project
Annual Reports and Work Plan and Budget             100 percent on time
Submission s
State School Statistics MIS          MPSP             State            Software platform adopted and italled               [By end project year I]
esLablished                                           Department       MIS facilities established and equipped             IBy end project year 11
of Education
Cooperating Naonal Prograus:                                           Staff training                                      By end of project, initial and refresher
o DPEP Bureau                                                                                                               25 administrators
o TA in Educttional Planri                                                                                                  20 programmers and operators
and Man0gent                                                           Frequency of reports                                  3 systems analysts/training officers
Conforsance with GOI data requirements              Quarterly
100 percent
Strengthen Maharashtra State         MPSP             MBTPCR           Quality of textbook development process             Textbook trialling introduced
Bureau of Textbook Production                                          improved                                            Training completed for curriculum developers.
and Curriculum Research                                                                                                    authors editors, illustrators, evaluators,
(MBTPCR) to develop and                                                                                                    designers and production and disiribution staff
publish new MLL textbooks and
related materials
Production and distribution capacity ensanced       Desktop publishing capacity intalled and fully
utilized
Cooperating National Prograns:                                                                                             Production, stock and distribution control
a Progran for Instrpcdonal                                                                                                 systems computerized
Material and Textbook Renewal
Administrative efficiency improved                  Finance, accounting, budgeting, personnel arid
payroll systens computerized and reports
available quarterly
Quality of textbooks mproved                        New MLL textbooks published and in use in all
project districts
Availability of auxiliary imiroctional material
Strengthen State Council for         MPSP             SCERT            Facilities construction, renovation and equipping   Training rooms. workshops, science laboratories;
Educational Research and                                                                                                   library renovation completed
Training (SCERT) to:
o Support nonformal education                                          Non-formal Education Centre established and         3 Professional staff appointed project year I
o Develop training reource                                             staffed                                             NFE material produced and in use
materials for use at state, district                                                                                       o curriculum
and school/community level                                                                                                 o student learning materials
o resource person training module
Cooperating National Progranis:                                                                                            o instructr's handbook
o RSCE                                                                 Training materials development capacity enhanced    Materials produced and in use:
o MAP                                                                                                                      o ECCE handbook and training modules
o Tralng Resource Group                                                                                                   o Pre-service teacher educator's manual for
primary teacher trainers
o Pre-servie teacher educator's manual for
primary headmasters
o VEC and PTA members



- 103 -
Annex 5
Page 13
Establish Maharashuxa Institute for    MPSP         MIEPA           Facilities corinstrcted and equipped              Administrative, training, hostel. saff quarters,
Educational Planning and                                                                                              audio-visual center buildings completed and in
Administration (MIEPA) at                                                                                             use.
Aurangatad to:
o Develop and implement                                             Saff development                                  10 professional staff appointed and trained by
management training                                                                                                   NIEPA and other institutions
o Manage reearch and evaluation
activities                                                                                                            Four professionals appointed and traited by
NCERT/CPERS in research
Cooperating Natonal Programs:
a Training Resoree Group                                            Number and quality of training programs           Materials developed and training provided to
a Center for Progratun                                                                                                regional/district staff (120). block education staff
Evalsuatos Research and Studies                                                                                       and trainers (400), education extension officers
(NCERT)                                                                                                               and administrative officers of school boards
a Technial Assisance In                                                                                               (2000) heads of DIETS and primary teawher
Planning and Mansageent                                                                                               training imintutes (130), and other supervisory
staff (3000)
Number and quality of Learning achievement       Completed in third and sixth year of project in 5
studies                                           districts, studies in additional districts joining the
program
Multi-variate analysis of achievement dat using  Completed in seventh year of project
school effectiveness models
Number and quality of Evaluation and research     10 commissioned and completed
studies
Extent of research utilization                    3 studies presented at national conferences
All studies discussed with district implementation
teams and MPSP Council
Establish Mahila Probodhan          MPSP            SCERT           Training development and delivery capacity        Materials produced and in use:
Program (MPP) an a resource                                         established                                       o Handbook and training modules for women's
program for girls education.                                                                                          education
o Training manual for resource persons
o Training manual for gender sensitization
400 resource persons and activists trained at
district and black levels



- 104 -
Annex 5
Page 14
Table 7: State Ca paciy Building Objectivs and Indiators
Kerala
ObJecties                    Nodal         Implement.                         Indicators                     |               End of Project Status
Agency               Agency                                                          I                                                  I
State Implementaton Stiety fully     State            PEDSK            Achievement of implementation targets               Average 90 percent of annual physical targets
|functional                          Educttion                                                                             and expenditures across state activities and
Department                                                                           districts
Primary Educaion Desieopmnent                                          Number of supervision missions to districts          Each distric, four times annually
Society of Kerata (PEDSK)                                              Disbursement requests                               Quarterly from second year of project
Annual Reports and Work Plan and Budget             100 percent on timc
Submissions
State School Statistics MIS          PEDSK            State            Software platform adopted and insttalled            [By end project yer 11
established                                           Department       MIS facilities established and equipped              By end project year II
of Education
Cooperaing National Progranis:                                         Staff training                                      By end of project, initial and refresher:
o DPEP Bureau                                                                                                               6 administrators
o TA in Educational Planning                                                                                                6 programmers and operators
and M1   na1aneat                                                      Frequericy of reports                                3 systems analysts/training officers
Conformance with GOI data requirerments             Quarterly
100 percent
Strerigtiten Textbook Ofitce (TO)    PEDSK            DPI/TO           Quality of textbook development process             Textbook trialling introduced
in Directorate of Public                                               improved                                            Training completed for curriculum developers.
|rIstruacion to develop and publish                                                                                        authors, editors, illustrators, evaluators,
new MLL textbooks and related                                                                                              designers and production and distribution staff
isnaterrals
Production and distribution capacity enhanced       Desktop publishing capacity installed and fully
Cooperating National Progrms:                                                                                              utilized
o Progamn  fr Instructomal                                                                                                 Production, stock and distribution control
Material and Textbook Reneseal                                                                                             systems computerized
a RSCE
o MAP                                                                  Quality of textbooks improved                       New MLL textbooks published and in use in all
Availability of auxiliary instructional material    project districts
New Student Workbooks and Teacher Guides in
usr in all schools in project districu
Convern State Institute of           PEDSK            SCERT            Increase intitutional autonomy                      Register SCERT us a society
Education into State Council for
Educational Research and                                               Staff capacity enhanced                             Director and Senior Staff recruited and appointed
Training (SCERT) to:
o Improve primary pre-service
eacher training
o Adapt NCERT prototype                                                Master trainers developed for primary teacher in-   Prototype NCERT materials adapted. translated
training resource materials for use                                    service training                                    and field tested for trainer training and for
at state, district and                                                                                                     teacher training.
schood/community level
o Train master trainers                                                                                                    70 master trainers trained and working in DIETs
and BRCs
o Conduct Research Studies
o Support ECCE Programs
Cooperatng Naionatl Progranas
o RSCE
 MAP
o Tr onun Reaource Group
o Center for Progr-an
Evadotlon Research and Studies



- 105 -
Annex 5
Page 15
Establish State Institute for        APSAP            SCERT'SIE        Statt dese     ntpietit                             6 professional staff appointed and traind by
Educational Management and                                                                                                 NIEPA and other intitutiorns
Training as a wing in the SCERT
to develoep and implement
management training and to                                             Number and qualiiy if training programs             Materials deneloped and training programs
conduct and spotsor evaluation                                                                                             provided to district and block education staff and
research                                                                                                                   trainers, heads of DIETS and primary teacher
training institutes, headteachers, community
leaders (total 1500 persons, 50 courses)
Cooperating Natinal Programsnt                                         Number and qua[iiv of researuh studies              Ten completed; 3 presented at national
o Training Resour-c  Group                                                                                                 conferences
o TechIcal Asstsnmnce in
Planning and Management                                                Number and quafly of learning achievement           Completed in third and sixth year of project in
studies                                             disitrcts; studies in additional districts joining the
program



- 106 -
Annex 5
Page 16
Table B: BaSk Indkators
STATE/DistriCt                                  II _______ 1             Population          -                             Primary Education IndicatorS
ASSAM                                                     Populaiion     Percenit       Percent        Percert         Nmsber oft
(010)          Femal.         SC            SrF             Government    I Enroll mentfsl
_____________________________    __________________  L ___________ I                                        GtaPrimarysGr.,, J   ReRenenonnRates
l            .                                                  ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Schools  |(()),
Datrang                                                    1229          48.4           5 0            17 3            1882              165 1            44 3
Boys                                                                                                 90*9             44 5
Girls                                                                                                74 2             44 2
SC Boys                                                                                              10 5             32 8
SC Girls                                                                                             8 6              32 8
ST Boys                                                                                              11.8             31 6
ST Girls                                                                                             9 8              32 2
Dhubri                                                     1332          48,72          1 3          124               1371              159 8            24 7
Boys                                                                                                 88 6             25.6
Girls                                                                                                71 2             2315
SC Boys                                                                                              6 9              37 5
SC Gtrls                                                                                             56               385 
ST Boys                                                                                              4 9              24 2
ST Girls                                                                                             4 1| 20(6
Karbi AngIong                                             663            47.55          4 2            51 6            1415              104 5            39 6
Boys                                                                                                53 5              41.8
Girls                                                                                                51               38 2
SC Boys                                                                                              3.3              36 2
SC Girls                                                                                             2 5           |31.
ST Boys           2189                                                                                                404A1
ST Girls                                                                                             28               36 8
Moeigaon                                                  640            48.47          3 8            15 4            785              94 2             44 8
Boys                                                                                                 52 5             49.9
Girls                                                                                               41.7              42.7
SC Boys                                                                                              11 9             34 6
SC Girls                                                                                             6 4              29 5
ST BoyS                                                                                             9.7               38 8
ST Girls                                                                                            9 6               337



- 107 -
Annex 5
Page 17
Ttl 8: Buie Indkct    - Pate 2
|iSTATE/Beiefk                 ||                     _____s__ |           Population                      |            P`irnrary Education Indi     aoton
HARYANA                                              Population    Percent      Percent       Percent        Number of
(000)         Female       SC           ST             Government
Priamary       Enroll ments    RetentiGn Rates
l                                                         ~~~~~~~ ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Schools  (ODD)
Husar                           Totals                1845         46.28         17 7         0 0            829            222.7            85 9
Boys                                                                                        123             91 9
Girls                                                                                       99.7            79.2
SC Boys                                                                                     37.6            98.5
SC Girls                                                                                    31.0            78.8
ST Boys
ST Girls
Jind                            Totals               963           45 59        15 6          0.0            461             117.1           69.1
Boys                                                                                        67.7            70.5
Girls                                                                                       49.4            67.1
SC Boys                                                                                     13.7            75.0
SC Girls                                                                                    9 7             56.6
ST Boys                                                                                     - |
ST Girls                                                                I
Kaithal                         Totals               821           46.02        21.4          0.0            335             117.1           NA
Boys                                                                                        68              NA
Girls                                                                                       49.1            NA
SC Boys                                                                                     14.9            NA
SC Girls                                                                                    9 1             NA
ST Boys                                                                                     -               NA
ST Girls             r                                                                                      NA
Sita|  Totals                                      |94             46 94        25.3          0.0            305             84.6            62.3
Boys                                                                                        47.5            65.2
Girls                                                                                       37.1            58.6
SC Boys                                                                                     11.8            49.5
SC Girls                                                                                    9.2             49.1
ST  Boys                                                                                   __ __|_|__|
ST Girls



- 108 -
Annex 5
Page 18
Table 8: Ik 1ndicatm - Pay 3
STATE/District       iu ce          s      l                       Population                     |              Primary Education Indtctors
KARNATAKA                                            Population    Percent      Percent       Percent        Number of
(000)       Female        SC           ST             Governnent      Enrollments
II ________________ I                                                          Pryinary        Grades 1-5      Retention Rains
Belpun                          Totals               3583          48.82         114          2.3            1269            439.4           59.8
Boys                                                                                        319.9           68.3
Girls                                                                                       119.5           51.2
SC Boys                                                                                     31 7            37.1
SC Girls                                                                                    25.0            28.3
ST Boys                                                                                     10.2            11.7
ST Girls                                                                                    7.1             37.9
Kolar                           Totals               2217          49.10        21.3          6.9            1984            338.1           76.4
BOYS                                                                                        189.7           87.0
Girls                                                                                       148.4           65.0
SC Boys                                                                                     46.5            81.8
SC Girls                                                                                    40.0            68.1
ST Boys                                                                                     16.1            79.1
ST Girls                                                                                    13 2            59.8
Mandya                          Tomals                1644         49.06         13.8         07             1191            2189            773
Boy                                                                                         120.3          84.1
Girls                                                                                       98.6            70.2
SC Boys                                                                                     16.7            77.2
SC Girls                                                                                    13.5            56.6
ST Boys                                                                                     2.5             59.1
ST Girls                                                                                    1.8             56.3
Raleiur                         Totals               2310          49.48         17 3         7.8            968            271.5            41.3
Boys                                                                                        160.3           4s.0
Girls                                                                                       111.2           36.3
SC Boys                                                                                     15.9            41.3
SC Girls                                                                                    18.7            32.4
ST Boys                                                                                     17.6            86.4
ST Girls                                                                                    10.7            78.6



- 109 -
Annex 5
Page 19
Table S: Basic Indicxtors - Page 4
STATE/Di                                                                                                                  P rm Popultyion    Education lrdic- t
KERALA     1~~~~~~~~~             1[ Population    ~          oplatond:
KERALA                                                    Population     Perrent        Percnt         Percent         Number of
(0()0)         Female         SC            ST              Governnte nt      E nrollIment s
SPrimary      J  Grades 1-5        Retention Rates
Kasargode                          Totals                  1072          50.65          7.5            2 7             133              137.0             NA
Boys                                                                                                70.5              NA
Girls                                                                                                66.5             NA
SC Boys                                                                                             6.2               NA
SC Girls                                                                                            5.6               NA
ST Boys                                                                                              1.8              NA
ST Girls                                                                                             1.7              NA
Malaopurram                        Totals                 3096            5129          8.3           0.3              346              436.8             101.4
Boys                                                                                                225.2             102.0
Girls                                                                                               211.6             100.7
SC Boys                            I                                                                 19.1             98.6
SC Girls                                                                                             18.2             126 5
ST Boys                                                                                             .6                64.2
ST Girls                                                                                             .6               70.5
Wayanad                            Totals                 672            49.12          3.9            17.1            68               77.3              NA
Boys                                                                                                39.6              NA
Girls                                                                                                37.7             NA
SC Boys                                                                                              2.4              NA
SC Girls                                                                                             2.3              NA
ST Boys                                                                                              7.7              NA
ST Girls                                                                                             7 1              NA



- 110 -
Annex 5
Page 20
Table S: BRul lndkat, - Ptm  5 ad 6
STATEIDls[ric           ||                                    -        Population           .                           Prim_ ry Education Indialoes
MANARASHTRA                   ii                         Population     Percent       Perceni       Percent         Number of
(000)         Female         SC            ST              Government    E[nrollments
Primary         Grades 1 5        Retention Rates
Schools         (OOD)
Aumnugabd                         Totals                 2214           47.98         12 1          3 8             904              350.4            68.2
Boy                                                                                                188 9           76 8
Girls                                                                                             161.5             57 6
SC Boys                                                                                           25.9             36(0
SC Girls                                                                                          2( 0              38 3
ST Boys                                                                                           7 t)              282
ST Girls                                                                                          4A1               20 3
Latur                             Totals                 1677          48.50          16.3          2 2             580              224 4            31 3
Boys                                                                                               114.8            32.1
Girls                                                                                              109.3            30 4
SC Boys                                                                                           23 5              30.4
SC Girls                                                                                          21.4             25.6
ST Boys                                                                                           4.9              27.9
ST Girls                                                                                          4.0               19.9
Nanded                            Tota|s  2330                          48.60         19.2           11.8           1269             364.9            48 0
Boys                                                                                              2003             531
Gitrs                                                                                             164.6            41 9
SC Boys                                                                                           42 8             52.9              1
SC GirBls                                                                                         36 9             38 4
ST Boys                                                                                           24.3             33 0
ST Girls                                                                                          18 2             27.6
Osmam|ad                          Totals                 1276          48.38          17 9           1.8            546              193.0            65 1
Boys                                                                                              104 2            65 1
Girls                                                                                             888              65.1
SC Boys                                                        1                                   18 7            65.1
SC Girls                                                                                           16 0            65 1
ST Boys                                                                                           6 2              65.1
ST Girls                                                                                          5 3              65 0



- ill -
Annex 5
Page 21
Parbhani                          Totals                 2117           48.81         11.3          5.3             1125             279.8            46.6
Boys                                                                                              161.9            543
Girls                                                                                             117.9             37.1
SC Boys           I                                                                               29.4             55.2
SC Girls                                                                                          21.1             37.6
| ST Boys          l                                                                            r 9.5              42.5
ST Girls                                                                                          6 2              42 1



- 112 -
Annex 5
Page 22
Tabl 8: Bask Ilndicsr  - Page 7
I I            ~                 IISTATEADI ||          F_        _ j          Popul|on                                       Printary Education Indiatos
TAMIL NADU                                              Population    Percent       Percent       Percent         Number of
(000)         Female        SC            ST              Government      ErnrolIments
P_rimary        Gra1es 1-5       Retention Rates
Schorois        (000)
Dharmpuri                         Totals                2429          48.5          14.5          20               777            322              783
Boys                                                                                            175.9            80.9
|Grls                                                                                           146.1            75.7
SC Boys                                                                                         26.0             53.7
SC Girls                                                                                        20.9             53.0
ST Boys                                                                                         3.1              38.8
ST Girls                                                                                        31               38.2
South Arco(                       Totals                4878          49.19         21.5          3.0             2287            521.7            70.6
Boys                                                                                            274.5            68.1
Girls                                                                                           247.2            7315
SC Boys                                                                                         58.8             58.4
SC Girls                                                                                        53.6             54.4
ST Boys                                                                                         0.7              28&0
ST Girls                                                                                        0.5              24.8
Tlhiruvannmalai|  Totals                                2043          49.58         21.5           1.2            1607            356.4            77.9
Sambwrvacayar                                                                      _      _      _      _        _                                _       _      _
Boys                                                                                            189.9            80.3
Girls                                                                                           166.5            75 4
SC Boys                                                                                         30.5             73.8
SC Girls                                                                                        26.6             71.8
ST Boys                                                                                         3.5              718
I  |  ST Girls    IL             |             I             I             |                   12.8              68 8



- 113 -
Annex 5
Page 23
Table 9:   nefiidary Enumeration
Estate                     | Number of Students to Benefit frmn         1                                                Number Of New Student Plwa Created
Improved Instruction (000)                  Number of Dropouts Averted (000)              (O00))
;                             JBoys            GirlS        |TOtIJ         |BOys             Gils           ToI            NoOrm        | Ne  S oCLrooms
Assam                           971            829            1800           188            159            347            63              It
Haryana                         766           635             1401           81              84            165            38              63
Karnataka                       1584          1380            2964           161            212            373            468             76
Kerala                          648            613            1261            2              2               4             6              42
MaharashUa                      2044          1812            3856           184            219            403            92              75
Tamil Nadu                      1502          1337            2839           121            109            230            208             102
[ _________TTrALS            T   7516           6607           14123           737            75             1522      |               [75    469                 7



114 -
Annex 5
Page 24
Table 1OA: Achievement Test Parameters for Grade 5 Primary School
Test Used in Haryana and Tamil Nadu
A. Language
Word Meaning                 Antonyms                              22
Synonyms                             18
TOTAL                         40
Reading Comprehension         Factual Details                      24
Inferences                           13
Central Idea                         02
Word and Sentence Meaning            05
_        _       _      _            TOTAL                      T44
B. Mathematics
Competencies                     Items
Addition                           2
Subtraction                        2
Addition and subtraction           2
Multiplication                     3
Division                           4
Unitary Method                      1
Multiples                          6
Fractions                          6
Decimals                           6
Time                               3
Weights and Measures               3
Geometry                           2
TOTAL               40



- 115 -
Annex 5
Page 25
Table 1OB: Achievement Test Parameters for Grade 4 Primary School Test
Used in Assam. Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra
A. Language
Word Meaning                 Antonyms              13
Synonyms             07
TOTAL         20
Reading Comprehension        Factual Details       17
Inferences           06
Central Idea         01
____l TOTAL  24
B. Mathematics
Competencies                    Items
Number Reading/recognition         2
Place Value                        2
Addition                           2
Subtraction                        3
Addition and Subtraction           4
Multiplication                      I
Division                           6
Multiplication and Addition        6
Weights and Measures               6
Time and Period                    3
Fractions                          3
Geometry/shapes                    2
TOTAL               40



- 116 -
Annex 5
Page 26
Table 11: Achievement Indctnors
[ STATEDistric                                   Rural LiterKy Rates                     Chle 4 AchevemIn       eSt Scor
r ASSAM                                               I  Mal       | Female          Reading         1 Word Meaning  | Mathematics
_I~                                                 IL  I   |                  IgZCOmPrOn | _ I_I
lDarrang                         Adults               401A         30.6
Boys                                             10.10              12.0               21.2
Girls                                            10.0               11.2               20.3
SC Boys                                          10.77              11.66              22.0
SC Girls                                         10.5               10.66              18.0
ST Boys                                          13.22              14.22              26.44
ST Girls                                         10.20              11.90              21.70
Dhubri                           AdulIts               42.7        23.8
Boys                                             10.30              12.50              22.30
Girls                                            10.30              12.70              22.20
SC Boys                                          10.73              11.84              21.31
SC Girls                                         10.78              11.0               19.79
ST Boys                                          8.6                11.4               18.0
| ST Girls                                       9.36               10.18              20. 18
Karbi Anglong                    Adults                52 3        30.9
Boys                                             8.1                10.2               16.8
Girls                                            8.5                9.5                16.0
SC Boys                                          7.44               9.33               22.89
SC Girls                                         9.5                7.5                15.75
ST Boys                                          8.04               10.28              15.84
ST Girls                                         7.78               8.91               15.69
Morigaon                         Adults               54.5         37.6
Boys                                             10.4               11.10              18.60
Girls                                            9.7                10.3               17.8
SC Boys                                          10.75              12.58              17.58
SC Girls                                         9.36               10.68              20.31
ST Boys                                          10.16              10.96             1.04
ST Girls                                         9.86               10.34              16.5



- 117 -
Annex 5
Page 27
Table 11: Achievesnent Indicators Pae - 2
STATE/l)strit                 eneflcaris    ||  Rural Literacy Rates                     Cla  5 Achievement Score
_  _'_            _         _     _" _                                                      ._                  .                .1
RARYANA                                            ||Male          Feal         teadirg              Word Meaning |     Mathenatics
I   ______ ________ _______ I  I__ _ _ _ _ _    II _ _ _ _               I .      r hess s s.    _ _ _  _ _  _     _ _  _ _  _ _
Hissar                           Adults               56.5         24.4
Boys                                             14.69              19.49              14.97
Girls                                            16.99              19.85              15.67
SC Boys                                          13.85              19.04              13.56
SC Girls                                         16.05              19.8               14.11
ST Boys                                          18.33              21.3               16.12
ST Girls                                         17.70              20.58              15.54
lindr                            Adults                57.3        24.4
Boys                                             18.33              21.30              16.12
Girls                                            17.70             20.58               15.54
SC Boys                                          17.82              20.79              16.57
SC Girls                                         17.24              19.45              14.55
ST Boys
ST Girls
Kailthal                         Adults                51 4        23.4
Boys                                             17.25              21.59              16.27
Girls                                            17.54              21.65              14.87
SC Boys                                          16.70              20.61              14.81
SC Girls                                         17.91              20.18              14.38
ST Boys
ST Girls
Sirsa                            Adults                522         27.4
Boys                                             14.73              18.91              14.03
Girls                                            14.79              20.44              15.74
SC Boys           I            |                 14.54              18.26              13.81
SC Girls                                         13.47              20.85              12.36
ST Boys
ST Girls



- 118 -
Annex 5
Page 28
Ttb  11: Achievement Indicuters - Page 3
STATE/District                Beneficiaries        Rural Literacy Rates                      Class 4 Achievernent Scores
I   ______________ _______   I    ______ ______  I    _ 1991_                              __  _  __  _  __   _  __  _  I_  _
KARNATAKA                      I                      I Male          Female rea ens  i    Word Meaning                     Mathematics
Kolr|  Adults                                            56.8         29 1
Boys                                               6.37                8.13                13.45
Girls                                              7.36                8.02                12.54
SC Boys                                            6.04                8.22                13.20
SC Girls                                           7.14                7.88                12.02
ST Boys                                            6.1                 8.14                12.12
ST Girls                                           6. 92               7.71                11.6
Mandya                            Adults                 55.9         32.1
Boys                                               8.81                9.29                16.21
Girls                                              8. 77               8.41                15.33
SC Boys                                            7.63                9.22                14.91
SC Girls                                           8.48                8.0                 14.21
ST Boys                                            8.0                 10.36               16.73
|  ST Girls                                           8.0                 5.7                 13.31
Raichur                           Adults                 44.3          16.5
Boys                                               8.49                7.86                15 09
Girls                                               8.0                7.5                 1517
SC Boys                                            8.76                8.0                 14 19
SC Girls                                           90                  7.64                14 5
ST Boys                                            8.77                7.9                 13 98
ST Girls                                           7.73                6.59                15 0
Belgaun                           Adults                 61.2         31.1
Boys                                               9.54                9.65                18.27
Girls                                              10.68               10.44               19 04
SC Boys                                            7.77                8.29                15 65
SC Girls                                           8.05                9.46                16 35
ST Boys                                            10.78               7.77                18 84
ST Girls                                           12.0                9.38                19.0



- 119 -
Annex 5
Page 29
Table 11: Achievement Indicators - Page 4
STATE/D)istrict            reneficiarie.          Rural          atsClass 4 Achievement Scores
KERALA                                                  Male         Female         Reading         1  Word Meanilng       Mathematics
I_                   11             I             I   Comprehen         _      __                  _
Kasargode                         Adults                88 2         75.3
Boys                                              10 2               9 86                15.6
Girls                                             9 99               9 79                15.1
SC Boys                                           8.77               8 82                14.47
SC Girls                                          10 26               10.21              14.58
ST Boys                                           7.0                9.0                 11.67
ST Girls                                          13 5               8 5                 20.5
Malapuram|  Adulus                                      92 0         83.9
Boys                                              9 5                10.14               13.67
Girls                                             9.87               9.82                13 60
SC Boys                                           7.84               9 35                11.8
SC Girls                                          9.16               8.56                12.40
ST Boys                                           8.9                10.3                13.2
ST Girls                                          13.0               11.50               19.0
Wynad                             Adults                87.5         77 6
Boys                                              11.73              10853               15.65
Girls                                             12 24              10.28               16.04
SC Boys                                           13 31              11.62            | 18.54
SC Girls                                          10.52              8.9                 15.14
ST Boys                                           11.30               10.36              15.36
ST Girls                                          10.66            | 8.78                14.24



- 120 -
Annex 5
Page 30
Tabit li: Achievesnent Indicators - Pags 5 and 6
STATE/District                                    |    Rural I iter-y Rate,                         Class 4 Achie,ement Sco,res
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                            l  l   9    9 ~ ~ ~~   3   ~          -                     - _ _ _  __1991
MAHARASHTRA                                                                                 Re Male  |    Iale  Rrading  | Word Meaning  Mathematics
I   ________________                I                           _        _      _prehe ni                        II
Aurangabad                           Adults                  66 1           28 4
Boys                                                   8 41                 8 58                  11.28
Girls                                                  7 67                 7.54                  10.43
SC Boys                                                7 64                 7.66                  10.06
SC Girls                                               8 0                  8 27                 11.27
ST Boys                                                8 (7                 9.92                  11.3
ST Girls                                               7 5                  8.87                  10.87
|Latur                                Adls61 2                               35 4
||Boys                                                   8.2|4|8.5|                                12|.1
SCGirls76980                                                                                       14
SC Boys                    =2___                                                                 _____
|SC Girls            ll|| 6.43                                             |7.54                |9 98
|   TBys          ll              || 10 19                             |10.66                |15 52
r STGrs           ll              || 9 12                               |7.68                |15.75
|Osnanabad                           Adulls65                               35 8
||Boys                                                   8.2                  8.5                   12*|.1| 1
i~~~~~~~~S Boy                                                                       7.2 !. !I 18|
||ST Boys(01(06152
||ST Girls9.276157



- 121 -
Annex 5
Page 31
Parbani|  Adults                                        209          t22.
Boys                                              3.44               9.4S                12.1
Girls                                             7.58               8.46                11.51
SC Boys                                           9.56               10.12               12.5
SC Girls                                          8.57               9.76                12.1I
ST Boys                                           771               9.57                12.61
ST Girls                                          7.41               8.76                12.64
Survey completion delayed by earthquake. Scores to be available by December, 1995



- 122 -
Annex 5
Page 32
Table 11: Achievemnent Inddctors - Paew 7
STATE/Distrid           ||    Benelk Fres    | Rural Lltery Ratef                            Cl|ss S Achievenent Scrs
TAMIL NADU                                               Male      ]Fcnle ZReading                        Word Meaning   J Mathenutics
Dhafmapuri                        Adults                 54.8         31.2
Boys                                               12.43               19.62               11.11
Girls                                               13.24              19.46               11.51
SC Boys                                            11.61-              19.59-              12.35-
SC Girls                                            11.69-             18.41'              11.81        1
ST Boys                                            9.82-               21.55-              13.64-
r  ST Girls              v                         9.25-               18.25               10.38-
South Arcot                        Adults                61 7         34.3
Boys                                               12.62               18.42               10.99
Girls                                              12.46               17.78               11.14
SC Boys                                             10.55              17.53            r  12.36
SC Girls                                            11.20              16.97               11.98
ST Boys                                            10.37-              19.02'              11.47-
ST Girls                                            1038-              16.65-              11.39S
Tlhiruvassatlai                    Adulus                64.3          35.9
Samburvmayar
Boys                                               11.41               17.94               11.55
Girls                                              11.12               16.54               11.60
SC Boys                          1                 10.72               16.83            1 9.94
SC Girls                                           12.30               16.91               11.40
ST Boys                                            10.25               18.75               11.70
|STGirls                                               11.23               15.77               12.23
*Ltss than 5 cases.



- 123 -
Annex 6
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
DPEP Policies, Strategies and Operational Guidelines
A. PROGRAM
Rationale
1.      Over the past seven years, national policy on primary education has evolved
through three phases: (a) expanding central assistance; (b) targeting external assistance
to backward states through state projects; and (c) targeting incremental central assistance
to backward districts. During the last and present phase of development, the GOI
decided to substantially expand external assistance for primary education. Experience
with single state projects in Andhra Pradesh (ODA), Bihar (UNICEF) and Uttar Pradesh
(IDA), while satisfactory, had also convinced the Department of Education that a strong
intermediary organization at the national level was needed to finance and monitor a
rapidly expanding investment program and to provide a common framework for the
utilization of external assistance. The District Primary Education Program (DPEP) has
been established for these purposes.
2.      The proposed DPEP was discussed in late 1992 and early 1993 at regional
meetings of State education authorities. State response was positive.  Following the
discussions, in April 1993 the GOI issued guidelines for the DPEP; the Guidelines were
also discussed with potential donors.   The program was approved by Cabinet in
December, 1993 as a centrally sponsored scheme of federal grant assistance to states
(See Annex 8 for a complete chronology of the development of the program).
3.      In sum, the program would operate as a national intermediary organization,
appraising, financing and supervising sub-projects proposed and implemented by state
governments.
Strategy
4.      Objectives. The program has five objectives based on the National Policy on
Education (1992):
a.      to build national, state and district institutional capacity for planning,
management, training, and research and development i support of
primary education development;
b.      to  reduce  differences  in  enrollment dropout and  learning
achievement among gender and social groups to less than 5
percent;



- 124 -
Annex 6
Page 2
c.      to reduce dropout rates for all students to less than 10 percent;
d.      to increase average primary learning achievement by 25 percent over
measured baseline levels; and (d) increasing access. Priority will be
given to female, scheduled caste and scheduled tribe students.
e.      to provide, according to national norms, access for all children to
primary education classes (I-V) in primary schools wherever
possible, or its equivalent through nonformal education.
5.       Targeting. The GOI is following the targeting agreements under the Program
to Strengthen the Social Safety Net (Credit 2448-IN) in designing the DPEP. The
literacy criterion for selecting districts would be the average national female literacy rate
of 39 percent; those districts with female literacy rates near to or below this average
would be selected for initial investment. The program would cover all below average
districts in a phased manner. In addition, districts where literacy campaigns have
generated increased demand for primary education would also be eligible for financing.
relatively advanced states.
6.      In principal, states with good performance records could initiate activities in
all their districts over a 10-15 year period. Districts with below average female literacy
rates would get early priority. Once action is underway to improve primary education
in all districts, attention could be shifted to upper primary education. In addition, in line
with the quality improvement objectives, states could propose quality enhancement
activities for primary and upper primary education where enrollments had reached
acceptable levels.
7.       Building Institutional Capacity.  National management capacity would be
established through the creation of a DPEP Bureau in the Department of Education,
supported by management and technical consultant support services.  Capacity for
national technical assistance to states for curriculum and materials development, in-
service teacher training and educational planning and management would be developed
through a network of national and state education institutions. Program research and
evaluation capacity would be developed under the leadership of a newly established
function for Program Evaluation, Research and Studies (PERS) located at the National
Council for Educational Research and Training. PERS would help develop educational
research capacity in national and state education, social science and economics research
institutions, and draw on these capacities to carry out DPEP evaluations and studies
through contracts and collaborative research programs.
8.       The program  offers states the opportunity to establish State Institutes of
Educational Management and Training (SIEMT) modeled on the institution of the same
name developed by the UP Basic Education Project. SIEMTs would have central



- 125 -
Annex 6
Page 3
responsibility for developing planning and management capacities in states. States can
also apply for support for capacity development in textbook and learning materials
preparation, publication and dissemination; teacher in-service training; and educational
research and evaluation.
9.       Program Interventions. While variations in issues and strategies for reducing
dropouts, improving learning achievement, and increasing access are expected to emerge
across districts and states, the DPEP would emphasize the following elements:
a.       Supervision of schools by community organizations to reduce teacher
absenteeism and increase student attendance;
b.       Early childhood education through coordination with ICDS where
possible and through new programs elsewhere;
c.      In-service teacher training at the school and school cluster level
focused on teaching reading and arithmetic, and on teaching in
multi-grade settings;
d.       Training for head teachers and other measures to improve school
management.
e.       Simplified and improved student learning materials, as well as
establishment of school libraries;
f.       Ensuring free textbooks for girls, and SC/ST students;
g.       Ensuring availability of learning aids;
h.       Repair and improvement of school facilities, including water supply
and latrines.
1.       Training for supervisors and other managerial staff.
j.       Construction of needed schools and classrooms;
k.       Opening of nonformal education centers.
10.      Nonformal primary education improvements would include attention to more
effective instructional models, improvement in logistics and training for instructors, and
an enhanced role for communities in supervision and management.



- 126 -
Annex 6
Page 4
11.      Strategies  to  strengthen  education  for girls would  include  women's
empowerment and education, training in gender sensitivity, elimination of gender bias
in learning materials, enhanced role for women in village education committees, and
awareness campaigns.
12.      A variety of initial intervention strategies for Scheduled Tribe (ST) children
would be launched by district implementation teams at the beginning of the program.
Experience with these strategies would be fed into a Program of Special Emphasis on ST
Education, which would be established during the second year of the project to finance
research and development activities aimed at improving the availability of textbooks and
other learning materials in tribal languages, increasing the number of tribal teachers, and
identifying and disseminating most effective intervention strategies.
13.      District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETS) would be strengthened
through equipment and staff development to enable them to provide better technical
support for primary education programs.
B. OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES
14.      The key elements of GOI DPEP operations are:"
a.       States would participate on a voluntary basis.
b.       States must submit proposals that meet program guidelines to gain
access to the program;
c.       State proposals should be built on district action plans prepared by
district teams with widespread popular participation.
d.       Eligible states would be financed annually on the basis of
performance reviews and plans and budgets for the subsequent year.
States or districts not meeting performance standards as measured by
achievement of physical and disbursement targets, as well as overall
management performance, would be assisted in taking corrective
action. If results are not satisfactory, they would be dropped from
the program.
e.       In the initial phase, states would be financed for five to seven years,
with work beginning in three to five districts in each state and on
state institutional capacity.
See Annex 7 for a detailed assessment of DPEP management structures and processes, including flow of funds.



- 127 -
Annex 6
Page 5
f.       Program  expansion to additional districts in participating states
would depend on the findings of a review in the second year of the
program.   Assuming  positive  findings, proposals would  be
entertained for additional districts and state-level activities, as well
as for expansion of pilot activities in districts with previous DPEP
financing.
g.       Participating states would have to covenant with the GOI and donors
to make program resources fully additional to state budgets, and to
fully sustain the recurrent costs of investments.
15.      States would be required to establish a Registered Society to receive and
disburse central assistance and to manage program activities. Such Societies are often
established by the GOI and by State governments to protect development program
resources from diversion to other areas of state expenditures and to ensure flexible
implementation arrangements. The approach is currently being used in donor assisted
projects, including the IDA basic education project and a US$300 million family planning
project in Uttar Pradesh, the UNICEF basic education project in Bihar, and SIDA-
assisted projects in Rajasthan.
Categories of Assistance
16.      States and districts would be eligible to propose activities consonant with the
state and district categories of assistance, consistent with program eligibility and financial
criteria (Attachments I and II).
17.      State-Level Activities to Build Institutional Capacity. Eligible activities include
those which would improve:
a.       the efficiency  of state textbook preparation, publication and
dissemination.
b.       the effectiveness in-service and pre-service primary teacher training
and education;
c.       the effectiveness of educational research and evaluation;
d.       the capacity of state agencies for research and training in educational
planning, management, monitoring and assessment.



- 128 -
Annex 6
Page 6
18.      District-Level Activities to Decentralize Primary Education Improvement
Programs. Eligible activities include those which would improve:
a.       district capacity for program management, supervision, monitoring
and evaluation.
b.      the quality of primary formal and nonformal education in order to
reduce dropout and increase learning achievement.
c.       access to primary formal or nonformal education.
d.       targeting of support for access to and benefit from primary education
for girls, SC and ST students.
Procedures
19.      Application. States may apply for initial or continuing awards following the
procedures outlined in DPEP Guidelines. Applications must conform to DPEP Program
Criteria (Attachment I) and Financial Guidelines (Attachment II). In summary, the
process consists of:
a.       Identification of districts according to DPEP criteria.
b.       Approval of district selections by DPEP.
C.       Appointment (if not in place) of District Planning Teams
d.       Appointment (if not in place) of State Planning Teams
e.       Preparation of preliminary district plans/proposals and cost estimates
for eligible activities.
f.       Preliminary appraisal of district proposals by DPEP.
g.       Preparation of state proposals for capacity building
h.       Appraisal by DPEP
i.       Appraisal by donors as appropriate
20.      Sub-project Appraisal. DPEP staff and consultants would appraise state and
district proposals for sub-projects against program policies and technical, financial and
managerial criteria.   Three missions would be conducted for each state: (1) at the



- 129 -
Annex 6
Page 7
initiation of project preparation; (2) on completion of draft proposals; (3) on completion
of revised proposals.
21.      Sub-project Supervision. DPEP supervision missions would visit each state and
a sample of districts twice annually, preparing supervision reports on all elements of
program implementation. Reports will be made available to all donor agencies.
22.      Performance Monitoring. Program perfornance would be monitored annually
on the basis an Annual Report developed from DPEP and donor supervision reports and
information from the project monitoring system.
23.      Periodic progress reviews would be built around sample-based learning
achievement studies developed by IDA consultants. The methodology has been tested
in Tamil Nadu and used for baseline beneficiary assessments in three initial districts in
Uttar Pradesh.  The GOI has made use of these surveys a requirement of state
participation in the national program (both to establish baselines and to measure
progress). While the first program review is unlikely to show much progress on
attendance and achievement, these data in subsequent years would provide the GOI with
an objective way to assess relative performance of the states (along with managerial
reviews and financial audits).
24.      The first phase of development of a computerized project monitoring system
has been completed. The initial system monitors planned activities, physical targets,
budget allocations, and expenditures at national, state and district levels. The system was
used by the GOI and IDA at appraisal.
25.      Expansion. Once the program is in place, with satisfactory progress, the three
states with currently operating donor-assisted projects could be taken up for subsequent
expansion.  A preliminary targeting matrix and program  schedule is attached as
Attachment III. As shown, as many as ten states in addition to the four with current
donor-assisted programs could participate. With the exception of Assam, the Northeast
States would initially be excluded for security reasons, as would the Punjab and Jammu
and Kashmnir.
Financing Requirements
26.      The program would finance institutional development, curriculum and textbook
revision, in-service teacher training, educational materials, incremental salaries, facilities
improvements, and limited school construction.
27.      Preliminary estimates place the total financing requirement to cover an
estimated 300 districts (in addition to the 38 districts already underway with donor
assistance) at US$ 3.0 billion over twelve years (at an average base cost of US$ 10



- 130 -
Annex 6
Page 8
million per district, including costs of state-level investments).  The commitments
required to fully fund new district programs initiated in Phase 1 of the program (the
balance of the Eighth Plan Period) are estimated at US$ 1.1 billion.  An Eighth Plan
incremental allocation of Rs. 1,950 core (US$ 650 million) has been made by the
Planning Commission to support the program. This amount is roughly equivalent to the
total of disbursements that would be made during the four years remaining in the Eighth
Plan. The balance of the commitment of Phase 1 commitment (US$ 500 million) would
need to be met in the Ninth Plan, along with the investment in additional districts, for
a total Ninth Plan commitment of US$ 2.35 billion.
28.     The GOI expects to be able to finance its share of the program with external
assistance. Under the SSN program, the EEC has provided provide approximately
US$200 million of grant assistance for the program, which the GOI will earmark for 20
districts. ODA has agreed to an expansion of assistance to Andhra Pradesh, and to
additional financing for West Bengal, under DPEP.



- 131 -
Annex 6
Page 9
Attachment I
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Program Eligibility Criteria
Criteria           Evidence
Equity focus       Focus on districts with low female literacy rates
Baseline beneficiary studies
Specific strategies for girls, SC/ST students
Decentralization   Action plans and budgets developed at the district level
Investment in district-level institutional capacity
Participatory      Village leadership, NGOs, District, Block, and School level
Planning           personnel involved in program planning through consultations &
workshops
Technical          Strategies are based on empirical evidence or experience,
Feasibility        evidence or experience, preferably in India
Managerial        Implementation by a registered society empowered to make
Feasibility       financial, staffing and project design decisions
Plan for MIS development that meets GOI requirements
Acceptable plans for development of enhanced State capacity for
textbook development, teacher and staff training, student learning
assessment, and program evaluation.
Financial          Program resources are a net addition to normal growth of
Feasibility        State Plan allocations for education as a whole and primary
education specifically
Full annual program costs are included in annual State budgets.
Annual recurrent costs of the investment are shown to be
sustainable on State Non-plan budgets at the end of the project



- 132 -
Annex 6
Page 10
Attachment II
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Financial Criteria
1.      In addition to conforming to program Categories of Assistance and meeting
Program Eligibility Criteria, proposals for state and district action programs must meet
additional Financial Criteria. These have been designed by the Department of Education
to ensure that program resources are additional to state financed investment programs,
to manage costs and to ensure that financing is directed toward program priorities.
These criteria have evolved during the development of the program, and may be modified
from time to time in light of experience, with the approval of the DPEP Program
Approval Board.
Additionality Criteria
2.       DPEP would not finance:
a.       Salaries for sanctioned but unfilled posts;
b.       Salaries of posts that should have been created by states in order to
meet state norms, such as the student teacher ratio;
c.       Salaries of posts already financed but transferred to DPEP activities;
3.       DPEP would finance salaries for newly appointed program staff on a declining
basis, beginning with 90 percent in the first two years, 80 percent for the third, fourth
and fifth years, and 65 percent in the seventh year of the project.
4.       Teacher salaries would be financed on the same declining basis in new schools
and classrooms constructed by the project and, from the third year of the project onward,
in schools in project districts where enrollment increases over baseline figures and state
teacher: student ratios justify the appointment.
5.       As a general principal, DPEP funds cannot be used to substitute for
expenditures states and districts would otherwise make. For example, if states now
provide textbooks free of charge to all students, DPEP would not finance textbook
printing and distribution costs for eligible project districts.
Cost Management Criteria
6.       Administrative Overheads. Program administration costs should not exceed six
percent of total program costs for a given state.



- 133 -
Annex 6
Page 11
7.       Incentives. DPEP would not finance incentive schemes such as free uniforms,
mid-day meals, attendance incentives, or cash awards for student or school performance.
Only provision of free textbooks for girls, SC and ST students would be financed in
project districts where states do not already have such a scheme.
8.       DPEP would finance awards programs for schools organized at the block level
with a view toward promoting competition among schools in the enrollment and retention
of girls and SC/ST students.  Awards must be used by the school for facilities
improvements or the acquisition of learning materials.
9.       Vehicles. DPEP would finance vehicles as follows:
a.       State level: one vehicle for state project director, two vehicles for
the project pool, one for the director of SIEMT, and one for the
SIEMT pool;
b.       District level: one vehicle for district program director, vehicles for
the program pool calculated at one for every four blocks in the
district; and one vehicle for the DIET to be used in providing
support to block and cluster training activities.
10.      Equipment.  DPEP would finance equipment at state, district block and
community levels as justified by state and district proposals. In initial stages of the
program, no televisions or video players/recorders would be financed below the level of
DIETS.
11.      Convergence of services. Activities and processes that promote convergence
and coordination between primary education and other social programs, such as ICDS
and health services, would be eligible for financing. DPEP would not finance the
expansion of ICDS anganwadi centers, but would finance early childhood education
(ECE) centers where ICDS centers are not available. Proposals for ECE centers should
be coordinated with state plans for ICDS expansion.
Program Priorities Criteria
12.     Intensive Application of Resources. The DPEP would finance the development
and improvement of key state education capacities, such as MIS development,
improvement in procedures for textbook and learning materials development, teacher in-
service training, etc., according to program Categories of Expenditure. However, the
costs of district-level implementation of these systems will be limited to eligible project
districts.



- 134 -
Annex 6
Page 12
13.     Civil Works Limitations.  To ensure substantial investment in quality
improvement, DPEP financing for civil works, including renovations, toilets, water
supply and electrification, block and cluster buildings and expansion of state physical
capacity is limited to 24 percent of total state project costs. Office space for DPEP
activities would be financed on a small scale only, and then within the existing facilities
of state education agencies. DPEP would not finance civil works for aided or private
schools, NGOs or other associations or groups.
14.     Residential schools. Proposals for the construction of residential primary
schools for ST and other disadvantaged students would be considered for eligibility from
the second year of the program onwards. Proposals would be required to include
evidence of demand from communities, school maps showing the location of the
proposed schools in relation to underserved comrnunities, and independent evaluations
of the effectiveness of similar existing schools.
15.     Community and School Empowerment. DPEP would finance grants to Village
Education Committees in the amount of Rs. 2000 annually for local purchase of learning
materials, furniture, teaching-learning equipment, student health checkups and other
environment building activities. DPEP would also finance annual grants of Rs. 500 per
teacher for the purchase of consumable supplies and development of low-cost teaching
aids. DPEP would not finance standardized packages of teaching-learning equipment,
furniture and other instructional materials for schools.
16.     Nonformal Education. To encourage continuing improvement in models for
nonformal education, DPEP would finance the development of alternative models and
materials as well as implementation of nonformal education in accordance with the
present GOI scheme in states not yet covered by that scheme.
17.     Phasing New Activities. States and districts may propose core activities for
which there is very little local experience (although relevant experience may be found in
other states). An example is early childhood education. In such cases, DPEP would
finance systematic start-up activities, and evaluations, prior to agreeing to finance
replication and expansion.
18.     Innovations. In order to encourage innovations at all levels, DPEP would
finance innovation funds at district, state and national levels. Continued funding for
innovations wold depend on performance, as reviewed annually.
a.      Districts. A fund of Rs. 100,000 would be established in each
annual budget. Proposals for use of the Fund would be approved by
the district unit of the State implementation society. The cost of any
single proposal should not exceed Rs. 100,000, and the duration
should not exceed one year.



- 135 -
Annex 6
Page 13
b.      States. A fund of Rs. 2,000,000 would be provided annually at to
the State Implementation Society. Proposals would be approved by
the Executive Committee of the Society. The cost of any single
proposal should not exceed Rs. 500.000 and the duration should not
exceed two years.
c.      National. An annual fund of Rs. 10,000,000 will be administered
by the DPEP Bureau for larger proposals from districts, states or
national organizations. Proposals would be approved by the DPEP
Project Approval Board. The cost of any single proposal should not
exceed Rs. 2,000,000. There are no limits of the duration of
activity.



Annex 6
MIN)A: DistIt Primay F        tion Program                                            Page 14
Illustrative District Tarletint and Schedule
Targeting                             Schedule
Rural Female       Current  Number of New District Programs
States/            Total    Literacy (%)*       District  Initiated Each Pmrgram Year
Programs           Districts  <29 30-39 >40    Programs 1          2         3        4         5         6        7         8
EXISTING
Andhra Pradesh     23        12   7      4      23                                     -        -         -         -        -
Bihar              42        39   3      -       3                                     6        6         10        10       7
Rajasthn           27        26    1     -       3                                    0         10        6         8        -
Uttar Pradesh      63        45   12    6       10                                     10       10        10        10       13
subtDtls           155       122  23     10    39                                      16       26        26       28        20
PLANNED
Assam              23        1    9      13              4                   6        6         7         -        -
GuJarat            19       2      1     16              0                   0        6         11        2
Haryau             16        1    6      9               4                   6        6         -         -        -         -
Kamatua            20       2    7       11              4                   6        6         4         -        -         -
Kerala             14       -    -       14              3                   3        4         4         -
Maharashtra        30        3    6      21              5                   6        6         6         7        -         -
Madhya Pradesh    45        29   10    6                  19                 0        8         8         10       -         -
Orissa             13        5    4      4               0                   0        4         7         2
Tamil Nadu         21             3      18               3                  6        8         4         -
West Bengal        17       4    4       8               0                   5        4         4         4
subtotals          218      47   50    121               42                  38       58        55        25       -         -
TOTALS             373       169  73    131   39         42                  38       74        81        51       28        20
Cumulative                                               81                  119     193        274       325      353       373
*1991 Census.
Note: This chart is illustrtive only. Actual projections would depend on program effectiveness and continuing availability of finance.



- 137 -
Annex 7
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Project Management
1.          The innovative nature of DPEP would require a management structure with
good policy access, substantial authority, a high degree of flexibility in appointing staff
and consultants, strong professional competence, and access to good information on
program activities, accomplishments and problems.
2.          To meet these requirements, the Department of Education would establish
a new organizational unit, the DPEP Bureau, to serve as an intermediary organization
to appraise, finance and supervise state and district sub-projects according to established
criteria and procedures.  The DPEP Bureau would in turn be assisted by an
implementation support group employed under contractual arrangements to the DOE.
Through this contract, the DPEP Bureau would acquire substantial flexibility with respect
to appointment of temporary staff and consultants, including levels of remuneration. The
DPEP Bureau would be governed by a General Council, which would review policies
and progress annually, and a DPEP Project Board, which would be fully empowered for
program, financial and staffing approvals. The general structure is summarized in
Attachment 1.
A. NATIONAL STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS
Mission General Council
3.          The General Council would provide policy direction to the DPEP and
facilitate Center-State coordination; it would meet annually and be chaired by the
Minister of Human Resources Development. Members would include the Ministers of
Education of states which implement the program; the Member for Education, Planning
Commission; Secretaries of the central government Departments of Education,
Expenditure, Women and Child Development, and Health, as well as eminent educators
and leaders of prominent NGOs active in basic education. The Joint Secretary of the
DPEP Bureau would be the Member-Secretary of the Council.
DPEP Project Board
4.          The General Council will be assisted by a DPEP Project Board (PB), an
empowered body assigned full financial and administrative powers to implement the
program. The PB would be headed ex officio by the central government Education
Secretary and members would be the Financial Advisor, Department of Education,
Advisor of the Planning Commission, and the Secretary of the Expenditure Department



- 138 -
Annex 7
Page 2
(or the designated representative). The Joint Secretary of DPEP Bureau would be the
Member-Secretary of the PB. The PB would meet quarterly and as requested by the
Chairman.  Fifty percent of members attending would constitute a quorum for all
meetings.
5.          The composition of the PB would empower it to exercise all financial and
administrative powers necessary for program planning and implementation and to ensure
that the necessary governmental approvals are processed expediently within the HRD
Ministry. The broad functions of the PB would be to: (a) recommend policies in regard
to DPEP, (b) consider annual work plans and budgets received from the states and the
DPEP Bureau, which would include annual work plans and budgets for contracts for
program and technical support services, (c) approve changes in norms for new program
components and activities which emerge over the course of implementation, (d) promote
convergence of services, (e) review DPEP progress on a quarterly basis, and (f) provide
guidance to the DPEP Bureau. It would also discharge the functions of the EFC
(Expenditure Finance Committee of the Department of Expenditure) for DPEP projects
that are formulated in the future.
DPEP Bureau
6.          The DPEP Bureau would be fully responsible to the Project Board and
Mission General Council for the implementation of the program within DPEP Guidelines
and in accordance with agreements reached with program donors. The DPEP Bureau
would be headed by a full time Joint Secretary in the Department of Education, reporting
to the Secretary of Education, MHRD. The Joint Secretary, DPEP Bureau (JS-DPEP),
would have overall responsibility for program implementation, including coordination
with state Education Secretaries, within approved Guidelines and annual plans and
budgets. The JS-DPEP would have the authority to approve consultants appointed by
contractors for program and technical services, as well as to request specific services
through terms of reference.
7.          The DPEP Bureau would have the responsibility and authority to appraise,
supervise and evaluate national, state and district sub-projects, to enter into contractual
arrangements and to approve staff to be appointed in the PTG. It would serve as the
secretariat for the Mission Council and Project Board, and would develop and propose
policy and/or program recommendations for approval. It would directly supervise the
operations of the PTG.
8.          Policy Division.  The Bureau would comprise two units: the Policy
Division and the Program Division. The Policy Division would have two Deputy
Secretaries/Directors with appropriate support staff. Much of the background work
relating to policy, servicing of PB, release of finances to states, and overall review of



- 139 -
Annex 7
Page 3
the program would be done within the Bureau itself through the Policy Division. It
would be responsible for policy and coordination with funding agencies, Department of
Economic Affairs, Planning Commission and different ministries and departments in
Government of India such as Department of Rural Development and the Department of
Women and Child Development. It would also be responsible for servicing and
implementing the decisions of PB, release and reimbursement of funds, proper
maintenance of accounts and compliance with the procurement norms of the external
funding agencies.
9.          Program Division.  The Program Division would be staffed by four
officials with the rank of Deputy Secretary, with appropriate support staff. It would
supervise the work of PTG in six areas: planning and pedagogy, appraisal of projects,
supervision, monitoring and MIS, program evaluation and research, and civil works. In
addition, the Program Division would be responsible for overall coordination with states
on implementation of DPEP, with states specifically assigned to each of the four DSs.
The Deputy Secretaries would also represent the Government of India in the state
implementation societies. As more districts are added, additional Deputy Secretaries may
be provided for, from 1995-96 onwards.
DPEP Program and Technical Assistance Services
10.         The DPEP Bureau would be supported by program  and technical
consulting services provided by a consulting firm or firms selected by the DPEP Bureau.
Consultants would carry out annual work programs in supervision, technical assistance,
appraisal, research and evaluation, and project monitoring as approved by the Project
Board, as integral components of the annual work plans and budgets of the DPEP
Bureau.  The annual program and technical services work program would include
financing for these cooperative agreements which would be channeled as pass through
funds in the annual budgets for program and technical consulting services.  The
consulting firm would also respond to requests from the DPEP Bureau for services
arising from implementation of national components, or from state implementation
societies as approved by the DPEP Bureau. Such services would be financed through a
separate line budget arrangement authorized as part of each annual work plan and budget.
Annual budgets for program and technical services should be supplemented as needed by
short-term consultants.
11.         For first 2-3 years of the project (the remaining 3 years of the Eighth
Plan), the program and technical consulting services would be contracted to Education
Consultants India Limited (EDCIL), a public sector undertaking owned by the
Department of Education, to facilitate recruitment of professionals and engagement of
institutional and individual consultants. This flexible structure would enable the DPEP
Bureau to meet additional staffing needs arising from increased responsibilities. Initially,



- 140 -
Annex 7
Page 4
the EDCIL would establish six main units, for: appraisal, supervision, monitoring and
MIS, finance and procurement, civil works, research and evaluation, civil works,
research and evaluation, and technical assistance.  In addition, small units for
administrative and accounting support and for media and communications would be
created. The professionals staffing these units would be contracted following norms and
procedures set out in a contract to be entered into with EDCIL.
12.         The work of EDCIL would be directly managed and supervised by the
Program Division of the DPEP Bureau. Each of the four Deputy Secretaries in the
Program Division would have functional responsibility for corresponding cells in the
EDCIL and, for day to day operations, each deputy secretary would both monitor and
evaluate the performance of his/her respective EDCIL units and represent the unit to the
DPEP Bureau and PB for policy decisions. At the direction of the DPEP Bureau,
EDCIL would establish advisory groups and task forces for each functional area that it
deals with, to guide and review its activities.
13.         Appraisal Cell. Under the supervision of the DPEP Bureau, the Appraisal
unit's staff and consultants would provide on-site appraisal for state and district
proposals. The anticipated appraisal workload would be approximately 20 districts per
year. Each state would receive appraisal missions: (a) at the initiation of sub-project
preparation; (b) on completion of draft proposals; and (c) on completion of revised
proposals. The team would have expertise in educational financing, educational planning
and management, statistics, civil works, in-service training, community participation,
program management, special programs for women/ girls and SC/ST, and school
effectiveness, and would prepare terms of reference for and engage expert consultants
as needed.
14.         Supervision Cell. The unit would organize and staff DPEP participation
in bi-annual joint supervision missions with program donors. In addition it would
organize two bi-annual DPEP supervision mission to each participating state.
Additionally, this cell would assist DPEP Bureau state coordinators to review procure-
ment and disbursement activity, and prepare reports for funding agencies.
15.         Monitoring and MIS Cell. Under the supervision of a Deputy Secretary
in the DPEP Bureau, this unit would manage (a) the technical assistance program to
develop the school statistics MIS and (b) the project monitoring system.  It would
prepare monitoring reports on program implementation for the States, DPEP Bureau and
donors. It would also be responsible for preparing a quarterly DPEP newsletter, with
inputs from the DPEP Bureau and the other Technical and Professional Cells. As the
workload would increase over time, the staffing would expand commensurately. A core
staff of two technical experts and two research assistants is envisaged, with one research
assistant added for every additional 20 districts. The cell would also house an electronic



- 141 -
Annex 7
Page 5
data processing unit (EDP), which would be staffed by a system analyst/senior
programmer and three data entry operators.
16.         Finance and Procurement Cell. This cell would be responsible to the
DPEP Bureau for managing national procurement and supervising procurement by states
and districts according to donor guidelines. It would also monitor the advance of funds
and expenditures, prepare quarterly disbursement requests, and ensure the timely
completion of audit reports. It would initially be staffed by an experienced procurement
officer and an accounting officer with experience with World Bank-assisted projects.
17.         Civil Works Cell. This unit would be responsible for identifying and
disseminating best practices in school construction designs and materials, appraisal of
State and district civil works proposals, and supervise construction ensuring conformity
with national norms and safety standards.  Staff from this unit would join regular
supervision missions. The unit would be headed by a senior Architect/Engineer, who
would be supported by two engineers.
18.         Research and Evaluation Cell. Cooperative agreements for research and
evaluation in primary education would be managed by the cell for Program Evaluation
and Research, under the supervision of the DPEP Bureau. Staff and consultants in the
cell would provide technical oversight and review of the work done under the cooperative
agreement. It would also prepare terms of reference for independent studies on requests
from the DPEP Bureau, and supervise and evaluate the technical quality of the work
performed under such contracts.
19.         Technical Assistance Cell. This cell would manage cooperative programs
in in-service teacher training, pedagogical development, educational planning and
management and ST education development. Through contracts for consultant services
authorized by the DPEP Bureau, it would also assist states to prepare district programs
and plans for consideration for financing by the DPEP PB.   The cell would also
coordinate request for international technical cooperation under the supervision of the
DPEP Bureau. The cell would be staffed by six full time experts, two full-time
equivalent professional consultants and support staff.
B. STATE LEVEL STRUCTURES
Registered Society
20.         The GOI DPEP would be implemented through a registered society in each
state. Registered societies -- empowered, legal entities registered under the Societies
Registration Act of 1860 -- have been used in India to implement time-bound projects for



- 142 -
Annex 7
Page 6
130 years; they have been used for basic education projects in Bihar (1991), Rajasthan
(1992) and Uttar Pradesh (1993).
21.         Each implementation society would be accountable to a General Council
chaired by the Chief Minister or Education Minister of the State and an Executive
Committee chaired by the Chief Secretary/Education Secretary of the State. Membership
in both bodies would include representatives from other state government departments
and the GOI.
22.         Societies have three main advantages over conventional bureaucratic
structures. First, as para-statal bodies, societies have administrative flexibility combined
with public accountability (see accountability, below). Second, representation of several
Departments of the state government and the central government on the governing bodies
of the society facilitates planning and coordination. Third, financial transactions are
efficient and transparent (see flow of funds, below).  Certificates of registration,
memoranda of association and rules and regulations for DPEP societies in all six states
have been submitted to the GOI.
23.         Registered societies can receive funds from the GOI, state governments
and other donors directly and can disburse funds to the operational level of the project
through bank transfers. Under DPEP, these transfers would be made to district-level
implementing bodies on the basis of annual work programs and budgets.
State-level management structure
24.         According to their memoranda of association, Executive Committees of
state societies are authorized to create posts for management of the project. The actual
management arrangement in each state and district level would vary with local
conditions. Management structures proposed for DPEP have many common features,
however, including small staffs, linkages with State Departments of Education and other
departments, support for accounting and financial management at the state and district
level, and consultancies for accessing expertise in key functional areas. (see Attachment
2 for a typical state management structure).
25.         DPEP societies would employ both staff who are on deputation from other
organizations and those who are directly recruited by the society. The terms and
conditions of employment with the society would be governed by administrative and
service regulations which would be framed under the powers provided in the
Memorandum of Association and Rules and/or Service Regulations of the registered
society.



- 143 -
Annex 7
Page 7
District Level Management
26.          DPEP would be implemented at the district level through units of the state
society as supported by staff appointed by state societies, as provided for in the MOA
and Rules of each state-level registered society. The societies' Executive Committees are
empowered to specify the composition, functions and powers of the district management
structure. While states vary in the specifics of the district level management structures,
they share common features (Attachment 2). District level bodies would interact with
the Panchayati Raj structures -- e.g. the Zilla Parishad (District Board), the Block
Development Committee (BDC) and the village panchayats -- and with Village Education
Committees (VEC), which would play a major role in educational management,
supervision and monitoring at the village/school level. Staff of the Department of
Education posted in the district, including supervisory officials and functional specialists,
would work with the district DPEP units.
27.          District Committee. All districts propose to establish a district DPEP
Committee, headed by the District Collector or Chief Executive Officer, with
representatives from the district education department, non-governmental sector as well
as functional specialists. The district DPEP Committee would review the progress of
DPEP in the district and widen the involvement of participating agencies.
28.          District Task Force. Second, all districts propose to establish a District
Task Force that would be the executive body at the district level, to whom well-defined
powers would be delegated. The Chairman of the District Task Force would be decided
by the State Executive Committee, and its membership would include district level
officials and representatives of interested agencies. The membership would vary, but not
exceed 15.
C. MANAGEMENT PLANNING AND CONTROL
29.          The process for management planning and control is summarized in
Attachment 3. Slightly different procedures would be followed for the preparation and
appraisal of district, state and national sub-projects.
30.          District Sub-Projects. In accordance with the DPEP Guidelines, district
teams are responsible for developing district action plans with widespread popular
participation. By request, national support institutions such as NIEPA or NCERT would
provide technical assistance in the preparation of these AWPBs. After district-level
annual work programs and budgets (AWPB) have been prepared, the state
implementation society reviews these plans and determines whether or not revisions are
needed. If they are, the AWPBs are remanded to the district team(s) for revision; at this



- 144 -
Annex 7
Page 8
stage, national support institutions would be called in to provide support. When the
AWPBs have been suitably prepared, they are combined with the state-level AWPB and
sent forward to the DPEP Bureau for review. The DPEP Bureau then assigns the task
of formal appraisal to the PTG, which recommends either acceptance of the proposal or
revision. If revisions are needed, the process begins again. If no revisions are needed
the DPEP Board reviews the package and either approves or sends the proposal back for
further revision. If the DPEP Board approves the state package, it authorizes the
advancement of funds to the state implementation society; a sample of district AWPBs
would be reviewed by IDA.
31.         State Sub-Projects. State sub-projects for institutional capacity building
would be prepared in accordance with DPEP Guidelines and with assistance from
national support institutions. When they are suitably prepared, state-level AWPBs are
submitted to the DPEP Bureau, which assigns the PTG the task of formal appraisal.
Again, if revisions are needed, the proposals are remanded to the state and technical
assistance is provided through the national institutions and if no revisions are
recommended the AWPB is sent forward to the DPEP Bureau for approval in conjunction
with the entire state package.
32.         National Sub-Projects. National sub-projects for institutional capacity
building would be developed by national support institutions, in accordance with DPEP
Guidelines and existing institutional capacity.  Review of these sub-projects would
ultimately be undertaken by panels of professional peers, organized through PTG, and
recommendations made to the DPEP Bureau regarding approval. Initially, national
technical assistance programs would be implemented by NCERT and NIEPA on a project
basis through memoranda of understanding with the DPEP Bureau following standard
GOI procedures, and through contracts with individuals and other institutions. By
negotiations, the GOI would have prepared and pre-authorized memoranda of
understanding with NIEPA and NCERT to provide national research, development and
technical assistance services for (a) school statistics MIS system development (b) primary
teacher in-service training, and (c) program evaluation research and studies.
D. FLOW OF FUNDS
33.         DPEP Guidelines require that total project costs be shared between the
GOI and the state in the ratio of about 85:15. The GOI share would appear in the
Annual Plan and budget of Department of Education, Ministry of Human Resource
Development, Government of India. The states' contribution would be provided for in
the Annual Plan budget of the Education Departments of the respective states.
34.         GOI to societies. Advances from the GOI to state societies would be made
twice annually. Grants to implementing societies would be made directly through a



- 145 -
Annex 7
Page 9
cheque or demand draft by the Pay and Accounts Section of the GOI Education
Department, with the funds deposited in a bank account established by the
implementation society.  Reimbursement claims from the multilateral and bilateral
agencies would be made by DPEP Bureau based on expenditure statements received from
the implementing society. Because the advances are deposited into the accounts of the
implementation society, unspent balances at the end of the GOI fiscal year (March 30)
do not have to be returned or adjusted against subsequent advances, which is an
important advantage of the implementing societies. In principal, any state or district
fully expending the first advance through exceptional implementation could receive a
larger second advance.
35.         Release of funds to DPEP societies would occur every six months. The
first installment for six months' operating expenditures would be made on May 30; it
would be based on: (a) district and state Annual Work Plans and Budgets (AWPB)
prepared and appraised during the preceding December-January, and (b) evidence of
appropriate use of previously released funds ("utilization certificates" for years 2-7 of the
project). The second instalment of six months' operating expenditures would be made
on January 1 and would be adjusted against actual expenditures from the first advance;
it would be based on: (a) evidence that the state had made its matching release of funds
to the Society, (b) "utilization certificates", and (c) the review by the GOI Education
Secretary of satisfactory progress in implementation of the approved work plans. The
second advance would carry the program until the next June 1, overlapping (by two days)
the availability of date of the first advance for the subsequent year.
36.         Societies to states/districts for personnel. Appointing authorities (in some
cases state governments, in other cases district governments) would be reimbursed by the
state implementation society on a quarterly basis for the salaries of teachers in new posts
resulting from the construction of DPEP financed schools and classrooms, and as
justified by dropout reduction and increased enrollments resulting from DPEP activities.
Reimbursement would be on a declining basis as per IDA norms against lists providing
names of teachers, name of school, date of appointment, and monthly salary. Both state
and district bodies are empowered to receive such reimbursements and to credit them on
the revenue side of their budgets.
37.         Societies to districts, blocks, villages, schools.  Each society would
establish rules and regulations for financial flows in its memoranda of association, rules
and financial regulations. The rules would govern formulation of budget, purchase
procedures, delegation of financial powers, investment of funds, maintenance of accounts
and audit, travel and per diem allowance rules, etc. The society Executive Committee
would be empowered to open bank accounts, authorize a Drawing and Disbursing Officer
to operate the accounts, and delegate financial functions to state, district, block, village
and school levels. The Financial Regulations would govern delegation of financial



- 146 -
Annex 7
Page 10
authority for purchasing goods and services, writing checks against society bank
accounts, and procedures for releasing funds to district level DPEP offices.
38.         Specific mechanisms would vary across states. However, DPEP societies
typically propose to open a bank account in a nationalized bank in which to deposit all
funds received. Societies would also open bank accounts in one of the nationalized banks
at the district level and in banks or post offices at the block and village level. Funds
would be advanced to districts through crossed Bank Drafts to the district-level bank
account; payments to block and village level DPEP cooperating institutions would be
made by crossed bank drafts.
39.         Districts would be advanced funds on the basis of annual work plans and
budgets as approved by the state DPEP society Executive Committee. Funds would be
released in installments after ensuring that the first instalment released has been utilized
satisfactorily.
E. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDITING
40.   Accountability and auditing would be ensured through established state and GOI
procedures acceptable to IDA in accordance with the provisions of the Societies
Registration Act 1860, and following standard IDA guidelines for audits of project
accounts and Statements of Expenditure.
Accounts
41.         Society.     All DPEP implementation societies would establish financial
regulations, similar to those established under the Lok Jumbish and Bihar Education
Projects, which detail procedures for the purchase of goods and services, including rules
for purchase, receipts, custody and accounting procedure for stores.
42.         State. All states have developed general financial rules that establish an
overall regulatory framework for the financial management of governmental and quasi-
governmental organizations, including DPEP implementation societies. These rules
provide for the purchase and procurement of goods and services, and include tendering
procedures for obtaining goods and services of acceptable quality at reasonable rates.
For DPEP, procurement, service and financial regulations to be adopted by implementing
societies would be prepared and provided to IDA for review. In addition, each state
government would enter into a Project Agreement with IDA.
43.         The Memoranda of Association of all DPEP implementation societies
(including the UP Basic Education Project) provide that the society shall (a) maintain
proper accounts and other relevant records, and (b) prepare annual accounts comprising



- 147 -
Annex 7
Page 11
receipts and payments and statement of liabilities as may be prescribed by the Registrar
of Societies in that particular state.
Audits
44.         Society.  Internal audit functions would be established in DPEP
implementation societies. The accounts of the society would be audited by an independ-
ent Chartered Accountant and in accordance with the provisions of the Societies
Registration Act 1860. The audited accounts along with a copy of the audit report and
society annual report would be furnished to the Executive Committee, which would
comment and submit it to the state government.
45.         State. The state government would comment on the audit report received
from the DPEP implementing society and would submit it to GOI for acceptance. State
governments would also, as required, place these documents in the state legislatures.
46.         GOI. The accounts of societies would be audited by the Comptroller and
Auditor General (CAG) of India, under the provisions (duties, powers and conditions of
service) of the Comptroller and Auditor General Act, 1971 as amended. The act also
provides for special audits of societies, which would be undertaken as necessary. In
addition, the GOI is required to place the annual report and audited statement of accounts
of the project in the Parliament on an annual basis.



- 148 -
Annex 7
Page 12
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
STAFF CONFIGURATION
A.   DPEP BUREAU
Chief, DPEP BUREAU---- Joint Secretary
Personal Secretary
P.A.
1 Messenger/peon
Policy Division:
Deputy Secretary    (2)
Under Secretary    (4)
Section Officer    (8)
PA                 (2)
Assistant         (16)
LDC                (8)
Peons              (4)
Program Division
Deputy Secretary    (4)
Desk Officer       (4)
Assistant          (4)
PA                 (6)
Stenographer       (4)
LDC                (4)
Peon               (8)
B.    Program and Technical Services
Appraisal Division:
Technical Experts   (2)
Jr. Steno          (2)
Consultants        (144 person months annually) drawn
from following specializations:
-     Educational planning
-     In-service training
-     Community participation
-     Programs for women and SC/ST
-     Civil works



- 149 -
Annex 7
Page 13
Supervision Division
Technical Experts       (3)
Jr. Steno                (2)
Consultants             (36 person months annually)
Civil Works Division:
Civil Engineer           (1)
Senior Architect         (1)
Draftsman                (1)
Jr. Steno                (1)
Technical Assistance for Project Preparation
Technical Experts       (6)
Consultants              22 person months annually
Jr. Steno                (4)
Monitoring Division:
Technical Experts       (3)
Research assistant       (2)
Data Entry Operator     (3)
Research and Evaluation:
Technical Experts       (2)
Word Processing Person   (4)
Consultants              60 person months annually
Media and Communication Unit:
Consultant               24 person months annually
Jr. Steno                (1)
Administrative and Finance support.:
Administrative Officer
and FAO           (1)
Accountants             (2)
Jr. Steno                (1)



- 150 -
Annex 7
Page 14
Attachment 1: National Management Structure
NEEM
EXECUTIVE
COMM ITTEE
POLICY            Servicing DPEP PAB
CELL             DPEP Policy
(2 DSs)          Negotiations with Donors
DPEP                      t- -; Release of Funds to State Societies
DPEP PROJECT          BIUREAU    l
APPROVAL       _g!
BOARD              JS +6 DSs   
PROGRAMME           Backup support to PTG
-:              -                - i -CELL  LookAfterAssigned States
(4 DSs)
PROGRAMME AND TECHNICAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
F    -              I                    II                                           1 
APPRAISAL OF         TECHNICAL         EVALUATION &           CIVIL           SUPERVISION        MONITORING
PROJECTS           ASSISTANCE          RESEARCH             WORKS                                 & MIS
Full time experts    Technical Experts    Technical Expert  Engineer &        Experts            System Administrator
Architect                           & Programmers
ANNX7-1 .XLS



- 151 -
Annex 7
Page 15
Attachment 2: State Management Structure
1         0 |  Review Implementation
General Council          {          Consider Annual and Audit Report
State Level                      X                            Amend Rules
Registered
I Society                         
for DPEP                                           1    _    Responsibility for Project Implementation
Executive Committee                    Frame Financial and Service Regulations
. Ij   Power to enter into Contracts
Executive Officer of Society
State Project Director             Project Implementation & Administration
Coordination with Education Dept & others
Additional Project Directo
| State Level Offce                 Irntplementing Agencies like:         Tehia   upport
Institutions, like:       Programme support
I - Administration                                                                                 Technical Assistance
- Accounts & Audit                       Resource Institutions,                 SCERT            r  Evaluation & research
- MIS                                     NGO's & Research                      SIEMT
- Civil Works                               Organizations                        IIM's
- Experts on
Functional Areas, e.g.
Teacher Training
ECCE, Women's                                                         Specific project activities
Development, Media                                                    on contract or MOU basis
& Documentation, etc.
TEMP.XLS



DPEP: INDIA Annual Work Plan and Budget Appraisal and Fund Release Process
prepare                                    NI                                        itit
stateei                                                                            teear
IDP/AWPB
\             YES           and                                                             YES                               YES
NsSI: National Support National Inst
?              ~~~~~provide                                                                          poid
TA                                                                                  T
SIS:   Sbte hnplementation Societv                                                               to d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IStcs
IDP:~~~~~~t                                                                                                                      reviewona Deeomn Pmra
NO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Odsrc                                                                                                                       n
AWPB: Annual Wbrk PlanA adBudgt
DFPBureau
revisions
nieeded                 ouft
and stafftbo
appraise AWPB
NO              Appraisal                                                                                                     atoie
repot sentA                                                                                        YS          odeoi
to DPEP~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~apma                                             b adacst
Bureau
NSI:   National Support Institution                                                                                                t   itit
S|S:   State InplemnOtation Societo
DP:   histitutional Development(r
AWPB: Annual Work Plan and Budget
bem\c3\wO28s (13)



- 153 -
Annex 8
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Management Development Plan
1.      The District Primary Education Program (DPEP) has been developed as an
intermediary organization to appraise, finance and supervise sub-projects implemented
by states, districts and national technical resource institutions. Program structures and
procedures, and management capacity, have been developed over an 18 month period
(Annex 8 Table 1). Preparation for the proposed IDA credit has provided an extended
opportunity for learning by doing, enabling national, state and district planning and
management teams to implement the activities required to complete a project preparation
cycle. Technical support for the process was provided by faculty from the National
Institute of Educational Planning and Administration (NIEPA) and the National Council
for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) through formal and informal training.
2.      DPEP preparation and appraisal procedures have been consciously modeled on
those of the World Bank. To become familiar with these procedures, DPEP staff in the
Department of Education participated fully in all stages of the IDA appraisal process.
DPEP Bureau staff completed an independent evaluation of sub-projects at appraisal in
parallel with IDA's appraisal.
Management Readiness
3.      Program implementation had begun by the time of project negotiations. The
DPEP management team had completed an ambitious project studies program, prepared
a national program management structure, and appraised proposals for action programs
in 8 states and 42 districts, as well as three of the anticipated five national technical
assistance programs. All legal actions needed to establish program structures at national,
state and district levels had been completed. Procedures for advance of funds and
accounting had been established at all levels of the program.  A contract for technical
and management support services for the DPEP Bureau in the Department of Education
had been pre-approved by IDA and was ready to be signed.
4.      Detailed annual work plans and budgets for the first year of program activity
had been completed for each sub-project, appraised by the DPEP Bureau, and approved
by the DPEP Project Approval Board. A computerized project monitoring system for
tracking physical targets and costs in sub-projects, developed by IDA for appraisal, had
been adapted by the DPEP Bureau and was in use.
5.      Key staff had been appointed in the DPEP Bureau and in all State
Implementation Societies and District Implementation Units. All of the staff in the DPEP
Bureau had been full time members of the DPEP Program Development Team (PDT)



- 154 -
Annex 8
Page 2
during the program development period. At the state and district levels, more than 50
percent of appointed staff had participated in project planning and preparation.
6.      Two tranches of funds had been released to State Implementation Societies,
which had advanced funds to district implementation units. Funds had also been
advanced to institutions implementing national technical assistance programs. Work had
begun in all sub-projects.
Continuing Management Development
7.      The proposed IDA credit would assist in formalizing these organizational
structures and procedures, and in further development of management capacity.
8.      Monitorable actions for continued development of management capacity have
been established for the first year of project activity (Annex 8 Table 1). These include
key actions in program staffing and operations, as well as training in program
management.
9.      IDA  staff based in the Resident Mission would provide continuing
implementation support for the program, including formal training in IDA procedures.
Particular priority would be given in the first year to assistance with the development of
DPEP supervision procedures, procurement and timely preparation of disbursement
requests.



- 155 -
Annex 8
Page 3
Table 1: Key Management Development Activities
Actions                          Date                 Comments
Prior to Appraisal                  _
DPEP program agreement in SSN      December,      Established broad program
Credit (Cr. 2448-IN)                1992          parameters
Appointment of DOE/DPEP Program   January, 1993  Joint Secretary, 3 Deputy
Development Team (PDT)                            Secretaries, support staff
Appointment of district and state  February-
planning teams                      March, 1993
DPEP Guidelines Issued             February,      Included IDA guidelines for
1994          project preparation
PDT meetings with state and district   February-
team to discuss Guidelines and     June, 1994
procedures                                                                  l
DPEP line allocation in DOE 93/94    April, 1994
Plan budget                                                                 l
District and State project planning  April, 1994
initiated                                                                   l
Project Studies Program Initiated  April, 1994    Joint development of TORs
with IDA and UNICEF.
Training of research teams
in states and districts.
OJT for PDT through participation in  July-August
IDA preparation mission             1993
Formal training in educational     July-          Provided by NIEPA and
planning and management for PDT,    December,     NCERT
state and district staff           1993
PDT organization and supervision of   June, 1993-    TA provided by NIEPA
TA to States and Districts         December,    and NCERT faculty
1994



- 156 -
Annex 8
Page 4
Preliminary Cabinet approval of    November,    As officially sanctioned
DPEP program                        1993          Centrally Sponsored
Scheme
Grant Agreement for DPEP signed    December,
with European Community under SSN   1993
OJT for PDT through participation in  January, 1994
IDA pre-appraisal mission
State Implementation Societies (SIS)    March, 1994   Following DPEP Guidelines
legally established
First release of DPEP funds to SIS  March, 1994   Rs. 5 million to each state
for preparation and start-up
activities
DPEP line allocation in DOE        April, 1994
FY94/95 Plan Budget                                                         l
Organization, staffing and financial    April, 1994
plan for DPEP Bureau completed
Organization, staffing and financial    April, 1994
plans for SIS and District
Implementation Units completed     __
Initial Computerized Program       April, 1994    Tracks medium term and
Planning and Monitoring System                    annual activities, physical
developed and used                                targets, and expenditures by
component and category at
national, state and district
levels
Joint IDA/PDT appraisal of state and   April, 1994    Written appraisal reports
district plans, national component                prepared by DPT
proposals                                                                   l
PDT Appraisal of Madhya Pradesh    April, 1994    TA from European
State and District Plans                          Community
Completion of studies program      May, 1994      Preliminary reports
reviewed at appraisal
By Completion of Negotiations
Appointment of DPEP Bureau Key     June, 1994     Full continuity of DPT
Staff



- 157 -
Annex 8
Page 5
Appointment of State and District  June, 1994     More than 50% continuity
Project Directors                                 with planning teams
Implementation Manual prepared     June, 1994     Provides comprehensive
guidance on DPEP
procedures, including
procurement and
disbursement
Contract for program and technical    July, 1994
services preapproved by IDA
SIS personnel and financial        July, 1994     Following DPEP Guidelines
regulations adopted
Program Launch - First meeting of    August, 1994   Release of 3 months
Project Approval Board (PAB) to                   operating expenditures to
sanction 93/94 subproject work plans              SIS and national technical
and budget                                        support programs
Final Cabinet approval of DPEP     September,
1994
Expenditure & Finance Committee    September,
approval of DPEP                   1994
Monitorable Actions for
Project First Year
Contract for professional and      August, 1994
technical services signed and key staff
appointed
Program Management Training I      September      Joint training for national
1994          and SIS management teams
in program operations,
including procurement and
disbursement, annual work
plan and budget processes
Program Management Training II     October,       State management teams
1994          train district management
teams, with TA from DPEP
Bureau



- 158 -
Annex 8
Page 6
DPEP Bureau Staffing Completed     October,       2 additional Deputy
1994          Secretaries and support
staff
Joint supervision mission with IDA  October,
1994
DPEP Bureau and SIS vehicle and    October,
equipment procurement               1994
Release of second three months of  November,
operating expenditures              1994
First year Progress Reports and    December,
FY95/96 Work Plans and Budgets      1994
received by DPEP Bureau
Annual Program Review Completed    January, 1995  Donor participation
Release of final 3 months operating    January, 1995
expenditures for 94/95
IDA disbursement request           February,
1995
FY95/96 Work Plans and Budgets     February,
authorized by DPEP PAB              1995
DPEP Supervision Missions          March, 1995
DPEP line allocation in 95/96 budget  April, 1995
Release of first six months of     April, 1995
operating expenditures for 95/96
DPEP supervision                   May, 1995
Program Management Training III    June, 1995     Refresher course in each
state
IDA disbursement request           June, 1995



- 159 -
Annex 9
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program 1
Education of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
Background
1.  Members of scheduled caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) groups are
disadvantaged socially, economically and educationally, and have historically been
victims of exploitation and social injustice, despite post independence legislation to
eliminate discrimination. SCs and STs form 15.75 percent and 7.88 percent respectively
of the overall population, but are often both physically and socially isolated from
majority communities.
2.  Several constraints hinder SCs and STs from participating in the education process,
principally their isolated geographic location. Most SC and ST children have parents
who never attended school and who are impoverished. These parents are unable to
afford school expenses or the loss of their children's contribution to the family income.
Internal to the school system are also the problems associated with the teacher's
background (whether SC/ST or non-SC/ST), the school calendar, the medium of
instruction, the supervision/inspectorate, incomplete schools at the primary levels, and
the relevance of curricula and textbooks. These constraints, coupled with weaknesses
in the monitoring and evaluation system as well as the lack of collaboration between
agencies of the Government that are responsible for education and welfare of the SCs and
STs, have contributed to the lack of access to adequate educational facilities, low
enrollment rates, high dropout rates, low level of encouragement to attend schools due
to lack of role models, and low level of literacy among the SCs and STs. Scheduled
tribes, particularly ST girls are more educationally disadvantaged than SCs. Since
independence, successive governments have taken initiatives to improve the socio-
economic status of SCs and STs, particularly through the institutionalization of special
education programs.
3.  SC children speak regional languages in the home, and thus benefit from attending
integrated school with poor children of other castes.  Improving the quality and
availability of basic educational services in rural schools in targeted districts is the most
effective way of improving their benefits from education. Some ST students also enroll
in integrated schools. A household survey conducted for the project in Assam, for
example, indicates that the families of these children are more assimilated with the
mainstream culture. However, in several project districts, tribals live separately, and
maintain their tribal language and customs. The policy of GOI has been to provide ST
students with instruction in the language of the home in the early primary grades for the



- 160 -
Annex 9
Page 2
60 some languages that are written. Implementation of this policy, however, has been
weakened by lack of resources.
Legal and Policy Framework
4.   Constitutional Framework. Since independence, India has endeavored to promote
education of the weaker sections of its society, namely the SCs and STs.  The
Constitution of India provides for the protection of the interests of the SCs and STs
against any injustice with regard to cultural and educational rights, and the establishment
and admission to educational institutions and grants from State funds in Article 29(1),
29(2) and 30(1), as follows:
"Any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof
having a distinct language, script or culture of its own shall have the right to
conserve same."
"No citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution, maintained
by the State, or receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only of religion, race,
caste, language or any of them."
"All minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to
establish and administer educational institutions of their choice."
5.   Furthermore, Articles 45 and 46 provide the following directive principles:
"the State shall endeavor to provide within a period of ten years from the
commencement of this Constitution for free and compulsory education for all
children until they complete the age of fourteen year."
"the State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests
of the weaker sections of the people, and in particular, of the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes, and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of
exploitation.
6.  The Seventh Amendment of the Constitution Act, 1956, s.21, provides for facilities
for instruction in mother-tongue at the primary stage through the following special
directives:
"It shall be the endeavor of every State and of every local authority with the State
to provide adequate facilities for instruction in the mother-tongue at the primary
stage of education to children belonging to linguistic minority groups; and the



- 161 -
Annex 9
Page 3
President may issue directions to any State as he considers necessary or proper for
the securing or such facilities.
7.  The Sixth Schedule has Provisions for the Administration of Tribal Areas in
selected states that provide for the creation of autonomous District Councils. The
District Council for an autonomous district has the power to establish, construct, or
manage primary schools, dispensaries, etc. in the district, and may, with the previous
approval of the Governor, make regulations for the regulation and control thereof, and
in particular, may prescribe the language and the manner in which primary education
shall be imparted in the district.
8.  Policy Framework. In the context of social justice, the Education Commission in
its 1964-66 report, states:
"One of the important social objectives of education is to equalize opportunity,
enabling the backward or underprivileged classes and individuals to use education
as a lever for the improvement of their condition. Every society that values social
justice and is anxious to improve the lot of the common man and cultivate all
available talent, must ensure progressive equality of opportunity to all sections of
the population. This guarantees the building up of an egalitarian and humane
society in which the exploitation of the weak will be minimized."
9.  The National Policy on Education adopted in 1986 states the following objectives
amongst others: (a) the provision of 5 years of education for all children who attained
the age of 11 by the year 1990; (b) the provision of education for all children up to the
age of 14 by the year 1995; (c) the establishment of a national curricular framework
providing for a common core and other components that would be flexible. The aim of
the common core would be to promote national identity, scientific temper, egalitarianism,
democracy, socialism, secularism, etc.
10. Universal Primary Education (1-5) and the Universal Elementary Education (6-8)
are to ensure that each child: (a) at the specified age of 11 attains the minimum level
of learning for the primary stage of education (UPE - grades 1-5); and (b) at the age
of 14, attains the minimum level of learning prescribed for the upper primary stage of
education (UEE - grades 6-8).
Current Situation in DPEP Districts
11. DPEP aims at expanding and improving primary education in districts that are
targeted as being below the average national female literacy rate. In project states, the
SC population ranges from 11 to 18 percent of the total population, with the national
average being 14 percent. STs constitute less than one percent of the population in



- 162 -
Annex 9
Page 4
Kerala and Tamil Nadu, 4 percent in Karnataka, 6 percent in Maharashtra, and 14
percent in Assam. There are no STs in Haryana. In Kerala and Assam, districts with
high concentration of ST students have been selected for investment. Tribal populations
of the proposed IDA DPEP districts range from about 10,000 persons to about 350,000
persons. The proportions of scheduled tribes in the population range from less than 1
percent to over 50 percent. For example, in Karbi Anglong District of Assam, STs live
in small (fewer than 500 persons) habitations where more than half the population is
tribal, while in Wayanad District in Kerala, STs live in large (more than 2000 persons)
habitations where fewer than 20 percent of the population is tribal.  Attachment I
summarizes, on a district-by-district basis, the demographic picture for STs in IDA
DPEP districts.
DPEP Strategies and Action Plans
12.      The general principal for tribal education supported under DPEP is that ST
children get their fair share of investment. To assist districts plan their programs for
tribals, an extensive tribal targeting study was conducted (a summary of findings is
presented in Annex 4). The study addressed the demography, ethnography and learning
achievement of tribes and tribal students in project districts. District strategies for tribal
education reflect differences in tribal concentrations in districts, from those in which
tribal groups are concentrated in small villages to those in which tribal groups are
integrated with the majority populations.  Plans for tribal education, which were
developed through participatory methods in DPEP districts, differentiate between those
that are non-DPEP strategies (but focus on STs), general infusion strategies that would
benefit the largest numbers of STs in the district, and targeted strategies for STs. Annex
9 Table 1 summarizes district by district, actions proposed in each of these categories.



- 163 -
Annex 9
Page 5
Table 1: Breakdown of District Strategies to Assist Tribals
State and District           Non-DPEP Strategies                  General Infusion Strategies          J  Initial Targeted Strategies
ASSAM                        1. Free Text Books.                  1. Bias review of textbook re:
2. Program on Convergence of         gender and social class.
Wonen's Empowerment, girls'          2. Tribal language workshop.
ansd SC/ST stuident progranm-        3. Adaption of MLL into 9 local
ICDS program (rho description).     languages.
4. Adaption of MLL curriculum
into 9 local languages.
5. BRCS to provide sensitization to
VECs, Block officials and teachers
re SC/IS population.
6. Identifying SC/ST girls sectors
for implementing programs.
DARRANG                                                           1. Siksha Sevikas to encourage          1. Mobilization Campaigns for
school attendance of tribals and       SC/ST Communities.
girls.
(Note: Darrang has                                                2. VEC development and training.
proposed a proportional                                           3. VEC award for 100% primary
budget amoum to tribals                                           school retention.
without documentation.)                                           4. VEC award for universal girls
enrollment.
5. Training of CO/NGO members to
foster attendance
DHUBRI                                                            1. VEC development and taining.         1. 5 ew schools for tribals.
2 Training of CO/NGO memben            2. 2 school clusters for tribals.
(Note: Dhubri has                                                 (Women's orpnizations and Mahila        3. 30 new teachers trained in
preposed a proportionl                                            Samijies) to foster attendance,         tribal language and placed
budget for tribals. mclm.                                                                                 sttegically
Isool, toilet,                                                                                            4. Mobilization for SC/ST
construction, repairs,                                                                                    community.
etc.)_ _                                                              _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _     _ _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _    _   _
KARBI                                                             1. VEC Development and Training         I NFE Centers to meet needs of
2 CO/NGO Training along with           rion-enrolled and drop outs
tribal members and Slksha Sevia and    between 9-16.
women's organizations to encourage     2. Text material for NFE in
retention.                             Karbi language.
3 7 residential schools in
interior hilly areas.
4 2 Mobile Schools in remote
areas to encourage paticipation
of all members of village.
MORIGAON                                                          I. Sikshi Sevikas to make house         1. 150  ew schools to increase
surveys to encourage girl (SC/ST       access, some in ST regions.
(Note: Moripon has set                                            girl) enrollment.                       2. Placement of ST experienced
aside a proportional                                              2. ECE to develop school readiness      teachers in strategic locations
amount for tribals,                                               3. VEC development and training.        3 Sensitization of teachers
descriptive back up is                                            4. Mahila Samitas training for          serving in SC/ST areas to needs
sketchy.)                                                         enrollment and monitoring               of population.
campaigns.                             4. Community mobilization in
ST areas.
S. Free text books to SC/ST
studens and those belom pwverty
line.



- 164 -
Annex 9
Page 6
State and District             Non-DPEP Strategies                   General Infusion Strategies               Initial Targeted Strategies
KARNATAKA                      I ECE for school readiness and         I Developmenr of training modules
caretaking of younger siblings        by Srta to help administrators,
2 Free text books and uniforms        teachers and VEi(
to SC/ST in standards V-VtI.
3 Free tent books to all children
in standards I-IV
4. Free meals to all children
5. Mobilizalion campaigns
6 Residential schools for talented
SC/ST girls.
7 Incentive program to SC/ST
stadents in I -V administered by
Dept of Social Welfare
8 Construction of teachers
quarters in remote areas.
9 Sirengihening of academic
activities of minority language
schools.
BELGAUM!                                                              I Community Mobilhzation                 1 125 New schools in areas
campaigrs in 1178 villages               with large number of bilingual
2. Development and Iraining of           minority students  Schirl
vEtCs                                    mapping will identify areas
2. NfIEs in areas of difficult
accessibility to schools NGOS
will set up and train workcrs
KOLAR                                                                 I Cormmunity mobilizattion through       I. NFEs will concentrate on
VEC  NG4fs, teachers and                 children of deprived aow
argagnawadc workers                      disadvantaged groups  Survey
2 Development and training of            will identify sites.
VEC                                      2 2(4 new schools will be built
3. Mothers' Committees lo educate        to accommodate schol-less
nothers rc  nportance of education       arcas.
fir girls
MANDYA                                                                I ECE will deselop school                I NFI: centers to reach n-n
readiness behavior                       starters atid drop ouls
2 Development and training of            2 65 New schools will be biit
VEC                                      in areas wth geographic
3 Training of VO/Mahila Mandals          obstacles to eDsting school
to oversee quality of education,
organize fuaictional literacy and
community m,ib,liration programs
and monitor DPEP
RAICHUtR                       1. Samooba provides assistant          I  lI'li with creche to relieve eSp.     1 400 NFE centers for tribal
teacher in schools with xed,          girls ot need to care for younger         areas
funded by Action Aid  30              siblings.
currently serve, 75 more have         2  Commanity mobilizaion to reach
been requested                        disadvantaged, school-less and low
enrollment areas.
3 Development and training of
VEC



- 165 -
Annex 9
Page 7
State and District           Non-DPEP Strategies                  General Infusion Strategies             Initial Targeted Strategies
|IKERALA                  l                                       I  Analysis of text book re: SCIST
bias and production of revised
edition.
2. School mapping survey.
3. Create center of learning
lmaierials for tribals.
4. Inservice teacher training.
5. ECE for rural areas
6. Computerized MIS to provide
ldata on gender, SC/ST status.
KASARAGOD                     1. Free Books/Slates to standard    1. Communiiy Mobilization to            1. 5 new primary schools
1.                                  encourage enrollmeni and retention.     2. NFEs in tribal areas.
2. Scolarship program for            2  Training programs for Mother        particularly to work with 2684
SC/ST in primary and high            PTA and PTA to help them become        children in child labor
school.                              advocates for education.               3  Training to promote ST
3. Free noon meals to standard       3. Compematory Education for           students into teaching profession
VII.                                 underachievers.                        4. Tribal language linker
4. Monthly Stipends to ST pupils    4. Development of VEC                   handbook for all teachers
provided by Tribal Welfare Dept     5. School level advisory committee
to oversee DPEP.
MALAPPURAM                    I. Free Books/Slates to standard    I Community Mobilization at             1 5 new primary schools.
I l  l                              school, panchayat and tribal levels.    2. 25 NFES in tribal areas.
2. Free noon meals to needy          2. Compernsatory Education after       3. Free text books to
3. Lumpsum grants to SC/ST          school and holidays for                 economically disadvantaged,
4. Monthly stipends.                 underachievers.                        i.e, SC and ST in Standard 111-
5. Irncentive Grant to Parents.     3. Development and Training of          V
6. Meritorious scholarship to        VEC.
SC/ST.
7. Uniforms to all LP students.
8. 9 Balawadies.
9. 11 hostels for ST, 30 students
in each.
10. Ashram school in Manjeri
for primitive tribes.
WAYANAD                      1. Monthly stipend.                  1. Compensatory Education to be         1. Construction of new schools,
2. Lumpsum grants                   given after school and holidays to      many slated for tribal areas
3. Incentive to Parents of STs      raise educational level of              2. NFEs for tribal and other
for 75% attendance.                  "educationally backward classes" .     areas with low enrollment, high
4. 33 Welfare and tribal hostels     2  BRCs to provide training to         drop out rates.
teachers and to develop learning       3  ST teacher training to enable
materials in tribal languages with     educated STs to become
help of tribal departments and         teachers.
KITHARDS.                              4. Development of tribal
3. ECE to develop school readinss      language handbook with dialect
of tribals and others                  translations.
4. Development of VEC.                 5  Community Mobilization
campaigns in cooperation with
Tribal Welfare Dept to
encourage parents to send
children so school.
6. Free text books to tribals
standards I-V.



- 166 -
Annex 9
Page 8
State antd District          Nor-DPEP Strategies                  General Infusion Strategies             Initial Targeted Strategies
MEALRASHTRA                                                       I. Strettgthen SCERT to enable it ton
develop training programs for
teachers, VEC and parents and
adminatsrators.
2. Strengthen NFE unit in SCERT
to develop training materials.
3. Produce text book nd
curriculum in 7 languages.
4. Development of extracurricular
activities: music, sports, health and
scouting.
AURANGABAD                   1. Mobile School to reach            I. Development antd training of         I  New schools in school-less
students in sugar factory area.      VECs.                                   res.
2. Tetchers' Quare   to improve      2. CO and NGO trained as               2. NFE to reach drop outs with
aess to school and community         motivators for particularly girls'     help of qualified volunteers and
in remmte and hilly areas.          education                               flexible school timings
3. Women activists trained to work
with parents to increase retention of
girls.
LATUR                        1. Consrrution of 50 teachers'       I. Free books, uniforms asd             I  New primary schools in
quarter  to ertble teachers to       allowanres to girls.                   areas identified by school
serve in inaccessible area.          2. Community Awareness program         mapping. Flexible timings in
2. Mobile School to serve           to stress importance of ed. to SC/ST    agricultural season to enable
students in sugar factory area.     denoxified tribes and nDmadic tribe     more to attend classe.
children as well as girls.             2. NFE to reach 8-11 year-olds
3. Development and training of         focusing on girls, SC/ST and
VEC.                                    DTNT children. Expteted that
4. Creation of PTA.                    centers will close by prqect end
5. ECE to increase retention of        due to e-oltment and retention
students and provide careraking for    oJ children in primary school.
younger siblings. Attempt to make
program free for SC/ST and BPL.
NANDED                       1. Free uniforms.                    1. Establishment of PTAs.               I. Teacher Quarters in tribal
2. Free school feeding program.     2  Training and Development of          areas to bridge problem of
3. Attendance allowance for         VEC.                                    remoteness and inaccessibility.
SC/ST girls.                        3. Hiring and training of women         2  *"Constructioon of Primary
4. Book Bank.                        activists to encourage enrollmen, ed   Schools, 32 in Kinwat Tribal
5. Writing materils to backward     and empowerment of girls.               Area.
cilas students at rate of Rs. 10                                             3. NFE to reach drop outs and
per studenm.                                                                non-starters.
6. "Special Tribal Sub-Plan to
encourige developmem of Kinwat
area including 32 new school.
attendance allowance of tribal
sludetas school feeding and milk
program, coDttruction grams, and
tacher grans.
OSMANALAD                    Following are budgeted for 93-94     1. Developmentnd training of            1. New primary schools in 40
outside DPEP:                        VEC.                                   school-less aras.
1. Unspecified special facilities   2. Develop sub-women's VEC to           2. NFE to reach non-enrolled
for students in SC/ST in prinmary   focus an girls.                         and drop out population.
schools.                             3. Matriprabodhan (Mother
2. Attendance allowance to           Awareness) to encourage girls'
SC/ST in standards -IV.             education, health and mothers'
3. Opening of Balewadies in         education.
Primnary Schools in tribal areas.   4  Formation of PTAs.



- 167 -
Annex 9
Page 9
State and District           Non-DPEP Strategies                  General Infusion Strategies             Initial Targeted Strategies
PARBHANI                     I. Free Meals.                       1. Creation and strengthening of        1. New primary schools in
2. Attendance allowasce scheme      PTA                                     school-less or difficult to reach
for 75% allowance for SCIST         2. Training and Development of          areas.
and VJNT girls. Proposed to          VEC.                                   2. NFE centers in areas where
increase to all girls under BPL.    3. Mahila Mandals will be used to       30-- 9-14 yr. olds drop outs/non-
3. Book Bank giving 25%  of         encourage girls/parents to send         enrollees are identified
children free text books.            children girls io school.              3. Tent Schools for seasonal
4. Free uniforms and writing         4. Matruprabodhan: Education for       workers.
materials to SC/ST students.         Mothers, an orientation program  to    4. Free texibooks to all SC/ST
Proposed io exparnd to all SCIST    enlist mothers' support in providing    Students (proposed scheme; no
and BPL students.                    education for girls.                   budgetary backup exists)
TAMIL NADU                    I. Meal Schemes.                    1. DPEP orientation training to
2. Free Text                         stare and district level officers.
Books/Uniforms/Footwear.             2. Training Programs for text book
3. Free Bus Passes.                  writing and curriculum revision
4  Free Slates to standard 1.
DHARMAPURI                   1. Innovative Program- In kind       1. Social awareness campaign to         1. NFEs in difficult to reach
incentive (books, notebooks,        posh education.                         areas.
bags) to increase enrollment and     2. Strengthening of MTCs
retention of girls. To be            3. Cash Incentive to MTC for
trisituted in areas of large        reaching 100% enrollment and 5
numbers of SC/ST students.           year retention
4. Free Workbooks for standard I-
V.
5 Special coaching for low
achievers. Training for guide
teachers to deliver remedial service.
6. Magalir Mauram- train 2
members as women activists to reach
community
SOUTH ARCOT                                                       1. School mapping to determine          1. Irservice teacher training to
gaps.                                   help with tribal education.
2  Household survey in remote          2. NFEs to reach drop outs and
areas.                                  non-starters in areas of difficult
3  Teacher orientation to help them    accessibility or long distances to
spot polential drops outs and provide  school.
remedial action
4 Local committees to monitor
domestic problems leading to drop
outs.
5. Special coaching to SC/ST girls
and other slow learners.
6 Awareness campaigns in areas of
low enrollment and high drop outs.
7. Organizing and/or Strengthening
MTCs.
8. Development and training of
VECs.
9 Training of Mahila Mandals.
youth organizatiom, NGOs and
welfare assocratios in increasing
enrollment and retention.
THIRUVANNAMALAI              1. Free noon meals.                   I Social awareness campaigns to        1. 3 residential schools for
SAMBUVARAYAN                 2. Free text books, chappals.        stress value of education to            ST/SC children in inaccessible
3. Free uniforms for standards 1-    community.                             villages and hamlets.
Vill.                               2. Special coaching by trained          2. NFEs in areas of large
4. Free slates for standard 1.      teachers to reach underachievers.        numbers of non-starters and drop
3. Free workbooks to standards I-V.    outs.
4. Training of VEC, MTC. PTA
and NGOs in DPEP and welfare
schemes.
5. Strengthening of MTCs.



ASSAM: Darrang                                                                      ASSAM: Dhubri
80000                                                                              2000f /           
600000                                                                             150004
Number of                                   40 0  _ Number of '00000  
Tribals                                                                            Tribals
>2000                                          5>2000
O i</~ o-loo                                                                      <    >   5   1020000
tR           500          ~~~~~~Village                                                       <50vlg
Population                                                                         Population
Percentage of STs                                                                  Percentage of STs
in Vilage                                                                          in Vilage
ASSAM: Karbi Anglong                                                                    ASSAM: Morigaon
250000<                                                                            25000X/ 
2000000                    1                                                       200C04] 
Number of 150000                                                                   Number of 15
Tribals   10000            <{                                                      Tribals   10000iJ                    _      ir
so:        00                >t >2000                                              5000                                > j2000
>002000                                                                            >2000
< 500       Village                                                                         Popul vatio
CA                                 PopuLation Population                                                                                    0 
cl    A                                                                           CA    A
Percentage of STs                                                                 Percentage of STs                                                        Cx
in Vilage                                                                         in Village



KARNATAKA: Belgaum                                                      KARNATAKA: Kolar
300 01/                                                              25         0004
'2500 1           2                                                  20000|-    
Number of  5                                                  15~~~~~~~~~~Nube o
Tribah   IC00L 20 Tribab l1 <l>00
5E/                        > tX100s2000                           >0001- I l l      l  - '/ 100S2000
0> >                       01000                                     0<                    5llt 00-1000
Viuage                                                 < 500 Viage
Population                                                           Population
Percentage of STS                                                    P   ntage of STA
in Viae                                                              in Viae
I~~~~~~~~~~~~
0l
KARNATAKA: Mandya                                                    KARNATAKA: Raichur
Number of 3000                                                      Numberof 2
Tribas  2000                       9    20                          Tribals10oooAt                            20
IN   > 2000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
1 0 0 0 7tf                    _                              500000 200
Population                                                           Population            >
C4 A                                                                    A                                        
Perentge Of ST.                                                      Percentage of STs
ian Vige                                                             in Villae



KERALA: Kasaragod                                                                KERALA: Malappuram
20000C                /                                                         12000
800
Number of                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~Number of__
10000                  1                                                       100o    
Tribals                                                                         Tribals    400
5COO   > 2000                                     4000                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~> 2000
\ /,  +    1000-2000                          2000    /                        l_10-2000
0 /   5 00 soo-looO                                  0                         500-1000
< 500 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50                                                      Village
CD                                                      <500  /Population
v  m   O                                                                        v
o   0                                                                          6   0
Cl A                                                                              A
Percentage of STs                                                               Percentage of STs
in Village                                                                     in Village
KERALA: Wayanad
Number of 30000
TribaL   200>00
5(500~ ~        ~         ~~~~ |   2000
10000                           1000-2000
0                        500-1000
<500               Village
CI4                     ~~~~~~~Population
Cl A
Percentage of                                                                                                                                         m P O
STs in Village                                                                                                                                           x



MAHARASHTRA: Nanded                                    MAHARASHTRA: Parbhani
5O0D                                                     20
40000         iI                                         200007 
NumbPerof etg of                l                        Numberof    of ST|
Trban 200Vl Taibage                                           na g
0000 >/ >2000                                           5000 >  002000
 9  1  , - X~~500-1000                                             S01000
0  ~~~~~~~0            vmage                                          0          mg
Populaton                                               Poulation
   A
Pementage of STs                                        Pte of sr.
in VWge                                                 i Vie
| ~MAHARASHTRA: Latur 
140004
Number of 8       *i 
400(                    > >2000
2000   /              1000-2000
                 S00-1000
v                                                                                              Id m1
Patee d STs                                                                    Z x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
EV~~~~~-                                                                                          3 s



MAHARASHTRA:                                                                   MAHARASHTRA:
Aurangabad                                                                     Osmanabad
25000                                                                          10000
20000                                                                           8000
Number of 15000                                                                Number of  600 
Tribals   100_  2000                                                           Tribals    4000
5000                            2000                                           2000                           2000
0                    500                                                       0                    500-1000
be  tR5                          i                                                              500           Village
v~    g                      Population                                      v      e                     Population
6                                                                               6
o-~  A                                                                        o    W A
Pementage of                                                                   Percentage of
STs in Village                                                                 STs in Village
-t1
> x
4 rr



TAMIL NADU: Dharmapuri                                           TAMIL NADU: South Arcot
20000             ;                                             20000             1
15000            -1                                             15000        d 
Number of 1000               _                                   Number of I004    
TribalI                                                          Tribasb
1 , _>2000                                                         >2000
I /  o  - r   _/   ~100200                                  //        __         100020
Village                           Vilbge
Population                                                       Population
o   A                                                            Ng   A
Percentage of STs                                                Percentage of STs
in Vilage                                                        in Vilage
TAMIL NADU:
Thiruvanamalai
2000
15000
Number of 10000
Tribal,                            2D
5000  
0       <        500-1000
0*   b /~< 500        Villae
V     be                r Opulaton                                                                       l:
V  *n~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Perntage of                                                                                                          x
STs in Vilbage                                                                                                     uL






- 175 -
Annex 10
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Girls' and Women's Education
Indicators of Female Educational Status
1.    In most Project districts, educational statistics show that girls and wonmen lag
considerably behind their male counterparts (see Table 1). Indeed, the District Primary
Education Program has selected districts which have the lowest femlale literacy rates in
India. Major objectives of the program are to close the gender gap in primary school
enrolment to less than five per cent during the life of the project, and in literacy over the
long term.
2.    In addition to lower literacy rates, the gender gap in education is characterized
by:
*     lower enrolment of girls in primary school, as well as at higher levels of
the educational system;
*     higher drop-out (i.e. low retention and completion) rates among girls.
Low retention is a more significant problem than low enrolment among
girls compared withl boys; and, on the whole, failure to complete the
primary cycle has a mucLh greater impact oi0 overall levels of education
than does failure to enrol;
significantly larger gaps between girls and boys in Scheduled Caste and
Scheduled Tribe groups than in the school population as a whole;
significantly greater differences between girls and boys in rural areas,
compared with urban areas.
Determinants of Female Education
3.    During Project Preparation, gender studies were conducted in the Project districts
to investigate reasons underlying the differences in girls' enrolment and retention, and
gender inequality in education (see Annex 4). Both 'supply' and 'demand' factors were
revealed to be significant causes of low female education in most districts. On the
demand side, factors that affect girls' schooling significantly include:
parental perceptions that the value of girls' education is low because the
education is irrelevant to the social and economic needs of their daughters'



- 176 -
Annex 10
Page 2
current or future lives. On the whole, the low value attached to femiale
education is a reflection of the low status of women;
*     girls' involvement in sibling care and other domestic work, as well as in
wage work, resulting in high opportunity costs to families of daughters'
educationi; this is especially important among poor families, and is
exacerbated by the above perception of the low value of education;
perceptions that the direct costs of education (fees, textbooks, materials,
clothing, transport) are high, especially for girls;
*     social concerns regarding girls' safety, particularly if they have to walk
long distances or if there are few women teachers; this is especially
important for girls aged 10 and II years, who are approaching puberty,
and those above this age;
*     the practice of early marriage, and hence of withdrawing girls from school
at the age of 10 or II years to prepare them for marriage.
4.    On the supply side, parents report the following as problems which negatively
affect their decisions to send daughters to school:
*     physically inaccessible schools;
*     inflexible school timings;
*     a paucity of female teachers;
*     inadequate infrastrmctural facilities for girls, such as single-sex schools,
or separate toilets;
*     irrelevance of the curriculumii to girls' current or flture lives;
*     inadequate teaching and a lack of remedial teachinig, which result in
parental perceptions that girls must be withdrawn from  school because
they are unable to cope with the curriculum; this is especially important
among illiterate families. It should be noted, however, that the baselinle
assessment studies fouLid very little difference in the actual learning
achievemnents of girls and boys who are in school.
5.    The Project Preparation studies also revealed significant gender biases among
teachers and administrators who believe that girls may be less intelligent than boys,
perform less well, and have bleaker future prospects. Reviews of textbooks and other
teaching-learning materials used in primary schools also revealed gender bias.



- 177 -
Annex l
Page 3
Provisions for Girls' Education in the Project
6.    The preliminary findings of these studies were utilized to plan strategies to
address the problems facing girls' education in the Project districts. All district plans
recognize the existence of gender disparities and the importance of girl's education to
achieving UEE. All have proposed activities to improve girls' enrolmlient and retention,
and some include strategies to improve girls' learning achievemnents as well. Together,
the plans currently include a wide variety of interventions for girls. The attached
diagrams show the wide range of activities proposed in the Project as a whole (Diagram
1), and the more specific proposals of two districts - Belgaulll in Karnataka which has
planned only a few activities (Diagram 2), and Latur in Maharashtra which has several
more (Diagram 3).
7.    During the first year of the Project, as analysis of the study findings is completed,
the strategies for girls will be strengthened through a series of participatory workshops.
They will be integrated into plans which maximnize each district's effort to get girls into
schools and ensure their continlLationi throuighi the primary years. The districts and states
will consolidate their proposals into a comnprehensive and well-synchronized effort to
narrow the gender gap.
8.    In the Project as a whole, several strategies are directed at increasing girls'
enrolment, ensuring continuation in school and completion of the five-year cycle of
primary education, and enhancing their learning achievements. Some activities aim to
address household-level constraints to demanid for female educationi, while others are
focussed on improving education for girls or removing the gender bias in education.
DPEP Guidelines place special emplhasis on, and make provisions for women's
empowerment programls in order to encouLrage girls' education directly, as well as
indirectly by enhancing acdult women's awareness and fuLnctional literacy, and raising the
status of women.
9.    Some specific activities directed at each of these objectives are described below.
10.   Addressing household constraints to demand for girls' education. Awareness
campaigns are to be conducted in most Project districts to promote girls' education as a
priority area for action, educate families about the benefits of girls' education and
motivate them to send daughters to school.
11.   In addition, Village Educationi Coiiirnittees set up in Project districts are expected
to be key instrumnents in increasinig demand for girls' education as well as in achieving
objectives (b) and (c) below. The VECs are to include women members and SC/ST
representatives.  In some districts, VECs will compete for awards for successful
achievement of universal enrolment. Other community groups entrusted with similar



- 178 -
Annex 10
Page 4
responsibilities include Parent-Teachler- Associatioiis, Mother-Teacher Councils, inahila
mandals and other women's organizations.
12.   Increasing girls' enrolnent.  Gender (and other social group) disparities in
enrolment are to be reduced to less than five per cent in the Project districts. To achieve
this, a numiber of strategies have been proposed:
a.     Provision of ECE centres: These centres will have the dual effect of
encoLuraginig  school enrolimienit as a result of 'headstart' pre-school
educationl as well as by providling the day-care arrangements for younger
siblings of childreni (uisually girls) who do not attend school on accoulit of
sibling care responsibilities.
b.     Under the Project, most children will be provided free text-books and, in
addition in some districts/states, girls and SC/ST children (or another
suibset of childcren. e.g. children in Class I) will be giveni materials such
as slates or stationery. ThoLighi not finaniced by IDA, several states in the
Project have provisions for scholarshiips or 'sponsorships' for girls and
SC/ST children, attendlanice allowances, free uniforms, or free mid-day
mieals, which are expected to have positive effects on girls' enrolnent and
conitinuation in school.
c.     Increasing the proportion of female teachers. Different states propose to
achieve this through different means.  For example, Tamil Nadu has
decreed that all primary school teachers should be women, and intends to
achieve this by  appointing  only  womeni to all teachers' positiolis
henceforth. Other states will increase the number of female teachers more
gradually by appointinig women to a given proportion of new teacher posts
and replacemients. Somie states propose to reserve fixed proportions of
places in primary teacher training courses for women.
d.     Non-formal education centres will be established for non-enrolled children
(especially girls), drop-outs and working children.
e.     Construction of new schools especially for girls (in Kerala), or hostels (in
Maharashtra).
13.   Ensuring continuation in school.  The Project is intended to reduice overall
dropout rates to less than ten per cent of baseline estimates. Strategies (b) (i) to (v)
above would also serve to retain girls in school.  In addition, proposals to provide
separate toilet facilities for girls are expected to have an impact on girls' continuation in
schools, as well as those to give awards to girl students.



- 179 -
Annex 10
Page 5
14.   Enhancing learniig achievemilenits. Learninig achievemelits (for both girls and
boys) in language and matilemilatics in the final year of primary school are to be increased
by 25 per cent over baseline estimates. Several districts provide for self-learning
materials, extra tuition after school hours and during holidays, or remedial teaching,
which will address the problem parents and teachers perceive of girls having difficulty
with the curriculum  and dropping out on account of "failure".
15.   Addressing gender bias in education . Strategies incilide:
*     revision of textbooks,
*     curriculumiii reform,
*     gender sensitization of teachers and adminiistrators througil pre-service and
in-service training, and of comImILunity memiibers and groups, other
government fuinctionaries such as ECCE workers, and textbook authors
through orientation workshops, and
appointment of women inspectors to monitor and assist in enhancing girls'
education.
Project Benefits to Girls' Education
16.   As Annex 5 Table 4 shows, the numnber of girls who will benefit from the Project
will be fewer than the nIlliuber of boys. This is becaLise of the current large gaps in
enrolment, which will close only slowly over the Project period. However, during each
year of the Project, the rate at which girls enrolment increases is expected to be higher
than that of boys. Furthermore, the numiiber of "drop-outs averted" among girls will
exceed the number among boys in the Project districts in Haryana, Karnataka and
Maharashtra and will be equivalent in Kerala. This will be achieved because most of the
districts in these states have large gender gaps in enrolment and retention, and will
achieve both higher enrolment and higher retention during the Project period. However,
in Assam and Tamil Nadu, there will be fewer girls among "drop-outs averted" because
the current gender gaps in retention rates are relatively small.



- 180 -
Annex 10
Page 6
Tahle 1: So,Ite Indiatur. .u' FLiele Educali-l :  SIalus Iii DPEI' I)ilric1
STATE/Dimiri.i                                               L.r2AOS lGrs                                                       f lcll                   iir
R o i.s                           F4uvt,II 1t                    re < l,r.                       1(etcnrros 
ASSAM
L),r.& r                                                 50 .g                  32.5                         44.94                            17.7                            44.2
Dhubri                                                   47.3                   28.8                         44.56                            19.2                            23.S
Ka,bi Anglc%                                             55.6                   34.4                         48.80                            31.0                            34.2
M.ripaol-                                                56.'2                  19.2                         44 27                            24 6                            4
IIAiRYANA
Hi.s..                                                   61.4                   32.1                         44.77                            45.7                            79.2
JirKi                                                    61.1                   56.1                         42.19                            34.0                            67.1
aK~ihal                                                  54.7                  2'.4                          41.93                            2X.7                             NA
Sirsm                                                    57.2                   34.0                         43.1S5                           41 7                            5b 6
KARNATAKA
B~Ig r.^.                                                 WU6.6)                38.5                         45 S I
Kola,                                                    62.7                   37.S                         43.g9                                                            65.1
M-.15*                                                   59 2                   36.7                         47.70                                                            70 2
Rawihwr                                                  49.5                    2 .                         40.96                            25.1                            363
KERALA                                                   94.5                  i46.9 
K-S-rerd                                                 S9.91                  76.3                         48.44                            47 7                             NA
Malappur=n                                               92.1                  S4.1                          4X.77                           55.6                            1J0 7
Wry-4                                                    S7.6                   77.8                         48.54                            51.2                             N A
NIAIARASHrTRA
A-g.F.d ahK72.9                                                                3'.6                          43.67                                                            57.6
I'tuY                                                    70.5                   39.7                         4X.71                            17.7                             '41.
N a,kd                                                   64.4                   31.(J                        45.11                           22.9                             41 9
0r.u=b.(IS, 4                                                                   39.2                         46.01                           1.6                             65., I
P.,bhha,u                                                64.9                   2' 4                         42.14
TAMiIL NADLI                                             74.9                   52.3
Dh n-xpuri                                               57.2                   34 2                         45.37                                                            712
South Ar.A                                               65.6                   39.7                         47.38                           27.1                             73.5
Tin,vo,rn..rnaIli                                        66.7                   39.3                         41.74                           27.S                            7> 4
C s.  V  ul-    a    of CIu- I 5 yeats -,rliu, IB.u. y-urs 87-XX4  111.9 or X 9-')0; [D. rr,,g ut,, los IV  oldy NA      550 .v .iI.lol



DIA.tx GIRLS  EOUCATION:GKNERAL ISSUBS u   STRATEGIES
rIf' THe PRO;IECT  I|GBltDER BIAS ItN t
~  ,FfML/OCNT                                                       SCHOOL SYSB -| 
ILI ..t.   i                   '1                     F }.|ACIL:ITIES         .  ' T]ACHERS/AmirHmSTRAT09S |Coki''LH
.  ...            ^1                ~~~~~~~~~*FBW SI-NGLE SXX  * DISCRIMINATEZ AGAINST  |*IRRE{LEVANT
SCHOOLS                 GIRLS SPECIALLY W.R.T.  |U1NSTINMULATING
. .  .      t ~DZff^ND POR CHILD         *INZrQUATE               ABILITYfl|   
VO ALUE OF GR         LABIOUR DDMEdT:tC/PAID      T. GCI    MATEBRIAL. ..        ..                    TEHA.EING/
I   .                            Ft ~~~~~~~~~WHON TEACHERS                          HAT -  R "AL
hINADEQUATE SPACE     | Sensitisation of
*General awareness        *Provision of                                       staff and officials       *ROLB
*Awarines.9 about the     cre||es and  CE|                                                              STEREOTYPING
utility of girls'         '*Attendance
IIedration           11  allowance_.1j
*Provision of separate    *Plexible timLings       *Increase in total
11 lschools f or girls    11 1'  .          1l    inumber of schools                                         "-
| Programme for Womens'                            specially fox girl                                 *Increase in
empowerment          1l 1             _ _.   l   11*NYE centres                                       curricular and
|INABILITY TO PAY       *Construction of                                  co-curricular
DIRECT COSTS             toilets for girls                                 activities
*Provisioh of                                     *Review of text
drinking water                                    3ooks for gender
*more classroom                                   bias and
I EA ^RLY NARRIAGt   ||*aIncentives that cove      space                                             apprapri ate
food, books, fees,            *More teachers                                    revisions
transport and uniforxms        specially wumen
I Key:
CAPS:-ISSUES
| italkcsstrategies                              O Ir -- .- ./.I,l                          .         .P1OtI
|LWw ZROLMi[NTIHIGH DR40P-OOIT|                       
PX I O
aq X



DIMWRX Ilt aIRLS' KDI'Cas tG  IB8MS AMD STRATOUIZS IN EuLdAuN (ZARTAzk)
* I                                   IentrAs
I~~~AL/um                                                                      S CIIOOL SlYSTDS F
|r1Ar:tBRACY |                      M                   Fre LI TrE IS|T B&CEKR5 JADMiNIS TRATORS  |C URR ICLUU}I
i                   I                  B~~~~~~~~~~~~*FW SINGLE SIX   *DIBr:RINmTE AaA.INS,  *IRRELEVANT
.  ,.             ~ ~~~~SC4ROOLS              GIR$LS SPKCIKLLY W.R.T.    *NSTIHUrATING
DIEDND FOR CHIILD TO PDQUATR                        AILITY                   I
ILO VA1RU  OF GIRLS         DIABOUR DOMISTICtPAID      WACHING t ATERIAL TsACHYNG/
I  f   11    I    _                     ~~~~~~~~~~*Z;O'SEPARATE TOI LETS                       LRARNGNr
|               11                 P8~~~~~~~~~~FW WOXgN TZKCERSR  IJ                    HATXRRIA
!          s                          ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~f   * INAJ1EQUATE SPACE  *dcatioz  o
*tGeneral awareness        |PorsooflC|..|te   euitYSTRZOLE IN 
*Sftcatiou far woQen                                             o
dien.kease in total
lncnber Of schOOvl  1
.LRRIAI                     . I ntis   tal  NP  centii 1
.erk l              ,     * More tsoos
* iNABILITY TO PAY |    ||*Canstruction of  |
IDIRECT COSTS       II llti lets              1
I v ||l~dr-inking water-|
-d4ERLYMARRIAGEg   l*nYni            based on  1 
I    4 RZSTRICTJ  ACCXS9 AND LACK OF INST8R!8T/KOTTVATION/ACHRlVEMBor|F  -
'Syl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Key:                                                                                                                              co 1          1
italIca:Strategi.s advocated                       LOW KNR1ILNT/HIGH DROP-OUT                                                     Q x
Italics uDderined:girl specific I                                                   



DItRAMt tIlt (2IRLS  DOUCATIONISSJUKS ANM  STRATEGIES IN LATUR (MAHARASHTRA)
..    *   .          | aS~~GENDER BIAS rS i     
: TLLllRlACY       TRA                  |ACI-LITIBS                             --|T B CEZRS/ADM1NIdTRATOR  ||CURRICU LUM.
*YfW SINGLE RBX         'DtSCRIKiNATk AGAINST    *IRRILeVMNT
ii. ..  Q           .       SCHOOLS                  GIRL9 SPECIALLY W.R.T.   'UNSTIMULATING
I- *DEMAND FOR CHILD       -*INADEQUATE              ABILITY
LOW VALUW OF GIRLS      L UOtR DOMBSTIC/PAID        TkAcHING KATK1tIAL                T8ACHING/
.      ' ., t.*NO SEPARATE TOILETS                        LEARNING
*FEN WOMEN TEACHERS                                MATERIAL
*INADEQtATE SPACE        *Sensitisation of
*HaJuila probodhah         Provision of                                     staff & officials         *ROLE
Proqrasmie and            HCE ceS ntres                       .STKRROTYPING
!Mue dav canp for         * Attendance
.Ad2leacent girls to      allowance                                  n
Priavte general         .11'crease In total                                                                                    o
awareniess and        Rumnber of schools                                                                   F
awareness about the                                specially for girln                              'Supply of
utility of girls'                                 *IIFE centres                                     teaching learning
education             i INABILITY To PAY           *Construction of                                 material,MLL self
DIRECT COSTS             toilets                                          learning material
IProvision of                                    sports kits, cub-
drinking water                                   bulbul units
-    'More clavsroom                                'Revise-d
EARLY MAtRRAGE     'xFree education. unifonms'    space                                            ct|rri &ul um to
foster parent pxrame! 11       *Atleast 50-t wneni                            lproqressivel     1
scholarships, medical          teachers in two                                  renove gende-
kits                           teacher schools                                  bias in std.1-V
RESTRICTED ACCESS AND LACK OF rNTERkST/MOTIVATION/ACEIKVEMI Ik
Key
ltalics:strategy advocated                         .x
itallc8 under1ined:girl   ||LOW EOLMKNT/BIGH DROP-OUT                                                                         H o
speciftc strategy






- 185 -
Annex 1 1
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
National and State Implementation Plans
1.          DPEP annual implementation plans at national and state levels focus on
scheduling for key activities and products. Actions and outcomes are shown in relation
to objectives and to anticipated end-of-project status (Annex 5 Development Objectives,
Indicators and Monitoring). Progress against annual implementation plans would be
reported annually, and plans for subsequent years based on progress achieved. First year
implementation plans for national and state components are shown in Annex 11 Tables
1 to 7.
2.          The first year implementation plans of states focus on key start up
activities: (a) staffing and equipping of society offices, (b) putting the education statistics
MIS system in place, (c) conducting initial workshops and design activities for the
development of Minimum Levels of Learning curricula preparatory to textbook revision
in subsequent years, and (d) completing a first round of development activity would be
undertaken for in-service teacher training materials development and training of master
trainers.  These core activities have been coordinated through national planning
workshops, and thus states have provided similar schedules and modalities of work in
these sub-components.
3.          First year state activities are linked to training and technical support
provided from the initial set of national technical assistance programs, the School
Statistics MIS program managed by the DPEP through NIEPA, the Training Resource
Group at NCERT, and the Program Evaluation Research and Studies Program, also at
NCERT. The implementation plans also identify the additional national technical
assistance programs that would support state activities from the second year of the project
onward.



- 186 -
Annex 11
Page 2
Tab  1: Natinal Comprnents: First Year Work Prograsr
Nodral       Implement.                                                        Target Completion
Objectives                   Agency        Agency                   Work Program  1994-95                    Dates                      End of Project
Status
DPEP Bureau would be fully              DOE            DPEP            Program Launch                                August 31. 1994
funtiGonal                                             Bureau
PTAG           Program  Management Training I                September 30. 1994
Program  Management Training 11              October 7, 1994
DPEP Bureau Staffing                         October 28, 1994
DPEP/PTAG vehicle and equipment              October 28. 1994
procurement
Joint Supervision with IDA 3 stares and 12    November 14, 1994
districts
Annual Program Review                        January, 1995             140 sub-projecs appraised
annually
IDA Disbursement Request                     February, 1995
DPEP Supervision 6 states, 23 districts      March 31. 1995
DPEP Supervision 6 states. 23 districts      May 31, 1995              140 sub-projects supervised
twice annually
Program Management Trainig III               June 16, 1995
IDA Disbursement Request                     June 30, 1995
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.2 School Statistics MIS               DPEP           DPEP            Monitoring cell in PTAG established and      June 30, 1994             Software platform established
computerized to district level       | Bureau           Bureau         staffed                                                                in all DPEP staes and
|PTAG                                                                                 National MIS cell, 6 sttes,
Procurement of computers and software        August 31. 1994           23 districu
NIEPA          National Seminar to finalize data frma|ts     July 29, 1994
NIEPA          Test version of software for school           September 16, 1994
statistics distributed to states
NIEPA          Test version Project Management MIS           October 7, 1994
software complete
NIEPA          Training of State MIS staff                   November 30. 1994        SO system managers
60 computer operhaom
NIEPA          Training of District staff                    January 27, 1995 |fR district and block
supervisors
States         Training of headteacbers                      February 24, 1995     |  10,0  school headmasters
Districts      First data collection with new protocols      Much 31. 1995
Districts      Data entry at district level                  May 9, 1995
Districts      Preliminary output at district level          June 16, 1995            Twice annually
|PTAG/         Technical Support from National Team          November I-June
NIEPA                                                        30, 1995



- 187 -
Annex 11
Page 3
Natiomi Training Reoure Group          DPEP           NCERT          TRG Staff Appointed                          June 30, 1994           6 tmining pckiae
established to suppof state and        Bureau                                                                                              completed and tramisted into
district trainirn ativities for:                      TRG            Report on best practice in India             August 31. 1994          local languages
o Tetehen                                                           lssue First Newsletter
o Headteachers
o Cluster Resource Teamr                             PTAG/          Internatiotl study tour for INSET            September 30, 1994
o Master Trainer                                     TRG
TRG            Workshop on Training Matermal Design        November IS. 1994        24 master training programs
cosopleted
TRG            Development of prototype teacher training   December 30, 1994
designs and materials for multi-grade
teching and low rost teahing aide
conu uction
Issue Second Newsleter
State         Translation and printing of training         February, 1995
institutiont    mnaterials
TR&G
Workshop on Field testing of desigm and     March 31, 1995
nTaterials
TRG/
States         Field test of materials and desigm          April-June, 1995
TRG
Workshop to Review Field Test Data          July, 1995               24 TA miusiots to state
TRG                                                                                 completed
Technical StporiM   to States               January 1- July 30,
_ L_         1995
DPEP Progrm Evaluation Research        PTAG           NCERT          Establish facilities                         July, 1994
and Studies eablished to assess
DPEP program strategies and impact                                   Multivariate analysis of learning                                     Completed in first, fourth and
and build evaluation resarch                                         achievement data commissioned                                         aeventh year of project
cwcity in satte istitutisom
Procure eqpipment                            August, 1994
Establish Research Review Committee
Plan for First Internraitstl DPEP Raesrch
Conference
First DPEP Research Conference              October, 1994
Invitation for proposals for resarch studies  November, 1994
Prepare materials and staff for three week  December 1994
orientation course for state agencies
lssue first newsletter                      Jaury, 1995              Issued twice annually
6 competed and results
published
Three-week orientation coure                 February. 1995          24 training programs
completed
Award of first research granu               March, 1995              50 research studies
comm.sioned  nd completed
Prepartion of three week coure in
quattnitlttve methods in educational
evaluation ad resrch
Publication of Proceedings of First         June, 1995
Research Conference                                                  Learning Achieverrent
Studies completed in third
aNd sixth year of peoject in
23 distrits; studies in
additional distrits joining the
prog,_



- 188 -
Annex 11
Page 4
Program of Technical Assistance io      DPEP           To be           Develop terms of reference for program       October 1, 1994           10 training packages
States in Education Planning and        Bureau         determined                                                                             completed and in regional
Management established to develop                                      Prepare short list of qualified institutions  October 1. 1994         languages, including inter alia
capacity in State Institutes of                                                                                                               micro-planning, VEC
Educational Management and                                             Invite proposals                              October 15. 1994         operations, district program
Training to train state and district                                                                                                          management, school
officials.                                                             Evaluate proposals                            December I, 1994         supervision, state program
management
Select Insitution                            December IS, 1994
Enter into agreemnt                          January 13, 1995
Comultans start work                          February 6, 1995
24 master itraner programs
completed with counterpart
state agenicies
Program for Improved Pedagogy           DPEP           To be           Develop terms of reference for program        October 1, 1994          Micro-analysts of baseline
Bureau         determined                                                                            achievement data completed
I Prigram  for Reading Skills and                                      Prepare sheet list of qualified institutiom  October 1, 1994           Reading readiness study
Comprehension Enhancement                                                                                                                     completed
(RSCE) established to                                                  Invite proposals                              October 15, 1994         Reading difficulties study
o assess reading readiness fee                                                                                                              completed
Grade I and reading difficulties in                                 Evaluate proposals                            December 1, 1994         Prototype RSCE materials
Grade 2.                                                                                                                                   package completed
o identify best practices in India                                   Select Insltitution                           December 15 1994
and internationally.                                                                                                                       Development seams trained in
o develop reading research capacity                                  Enter into agreemnt                           January 13, 1995         each state
o develop field tested exemplar                                                                                                             Regional language adaptations
reading materials                                                   Consultants start wek                         February 6, 1995         of RSCE field tested and in
o encourage exchange of materials                                                                                                           use in 6 states
among states
o build capacity for reading
program development in stare
iintiuins
Mathematics Activity Program            DPEP           To be           Develop terms of reference for program        October 1, 1994          Best practices paper
(MAP) established to                    Bureau         determined                                                                             published
o assess barriers to mathematics                                     Prepare short list of qualified institutions  October I, 1994          Complete MAP package field
achievement in Grades I and 2                                                                                                              tested and published
o identify best practice in India and                                Invite proposals                              October 15, 1994         Development tearms
interuasionally fer teaching                                                                                                               functioning in 6 states
numbers and basic operations                                        Evaluate proposals                            December 1, 1994
o develop prototype mathematics                                                                                                             MAP udaptations in use in
instructional activities and                                        Select Insltitution                           December 15, 1994        regional languages in 6 states
materials
o build capacity in state resource                                   Enter into agreemnt                           January 13, 1995         Evaluathsso studies using
institutiom  to adapt and further                                                                                                         experlmentai design sUI
develop MAP activities and                                         Consulutnts starr week                        February 6, 1995         show at least a 25%
materials                                                                                                                                 Increae in matniematics
achieemerent in Grade 2.



- 189 -
Annex 11
Page 5
Program for Curriculum and              DPEP           To be           Develop terms of reference for program       October I, 1994           Revised curricula in 6 stares
Textbook Renewal established to         Bureau         determined
o document R&D experience with                                        Prepare short list of qualified institutions  October 1, 1994         New textbooks, workbooks,
MLL for curriculum and                                                                                                                    teacher guides in use in all
textbook development                                               Invite proposals                              October 15, 1994         schools in 23 districts
o establish criteria for review of                                                                                                          teachers prepared through in-
curricula and textbooks                                            Evaluate proposals                            December 1, 1994         service training
o develop an MLL curriculum
design with provisions for                                         Select Institution                            December 15, 1994
children with special needs (ST,                                                                                                          Each state textbook writing
first generation learners,                                         Enter into agreement                          January 13, 1995         process isrcludes
disabled)
o deselop and test prototype                                         Consultants start work                        February 6, 1995           o Teachers as textbooks
textbooks, workbooks and                                                                                                                  writers
teacher guides                                                                                                                              o Field trials of textbooks
o build capacity for curriculum                                                                                                             followed by
and textbook renewal In states                                                                                                            revisions
Evaluation studies will show
an inrrease of 25 percent in
word knowledge, reading
comprehension and
mathmnnatics achievement in
the fina year of primary
school.
1 9 Program of Special Emphasis         DPEP           To be           Develop terms of reference for program       October 1, 1994           Increase in the number of
for ST Education established            Bureau         determined                                                                             tribal languages in which
Prepare short list of qualified institutions  October 1 1994         primary instructional
materials available
Invite proposals                             October 15. 1994
Increase in the number of ST
Evaluate proposals                           December 1, 1994         perons in tranitng as
teachers
Select Inslitulion                           December 15, 1994
Availability of evaluations
Enter Into agreement                         January 13, 1995         and documentation of
effective intervention
Consultants start work                       February 6. 1995         strategies for ST learners



- 190 -
Annex 11
Page 6
Ta    2: Stig  Ceummtb: F1b  Yew Work Ptws
A-_
Nodal        Impieent.                                          Target Compeion
Objectives                  Agecy         Agep-y                   Work Progrm  1994-95                   Data                       End of Projept
Statusa
State Implemntaon Society fully     Stair            APSAP           Appointment of Staff                        June. 1994                Average 90 percent of anmal
futciomal                           Edua1kim                                                                                               physical tee     aid
Depwnmete                       Workahop to plan for corgen     of         July, 1994                expenditures  cros towte
Assam Prthiolk SrLka                                                 aerviors for girls, SC/ST                                             activitie  and district
AcbmI Pwkad (APSAPI
Prcuaremei of equipmtra ad vehicls         Auggt. 1994               SuIpervise eah district. fow
times anmeally
Complee  tate-wide awaarenn  campeign      September, 1994
Submit disbursement requet
Complret supevisirln visit to dittriu      November, 1994            qurerly from seomd year of
projec
Submit disbrsvement requtt                  November, 1994
March, 1994
Submit AmruI Rqenr aid Work Plan           Decmber. 1994              100 percent on time
and Budget
ComWplte supervision missinot to disrnctr   February, May 1995
State School Stlastics MIS          APSAP            State           Appoaint staff (5)                          July, 1994                [By end project year 11
established                                          Depwrtmem       MIS facHilit  established and equipped      Augua, 1994               [By end project yeaLr II
of Editain      Software platform adopted and in talod      November, 1994
Cooperaqt  Nonal Poop                                                (From NIEPA)
o DPEP Iurea
o TA In EducatIoal Plmal_                                            Training for state MIS stLff (NIEPA)        November,                 By eid of project, initial ad |
ond Man _am                                                                                                      1994                      refresher:
6 administastor
Training of district staff                 Janury, 1995               6 progammers and
Training of headacher                      February. 1995             3 systerns analyutsltraining
offic'ers
First rotud data onllion from schools      April. 1995
Deta entry at distrit level                May, 1995
F rt trial report issued                   June, 1995                Quey reports
1t _  p_r_t conformity with
GOI requirements



- 191 -
Annex 11
Page 7
Strengthen Assam State Textbook     APSAP            ASTPPC          Appointment of staff                        August, 1994              ASTPPC role shifted towards
Production and Publication                                                                                                                 quality control amid
Corporation (ASTPPC)                                                 Staff Development                           November, 1994            monitoring [project year 11
Room for DTP unit constructed              December, 1994            Construction of DTP room
Cooperating National Prograns:                                       Procurement of DTP equipment                                          complete
o Progrma for Instructioanl                                          completed
Material and Textbook Renewal
o RSCE                                                               Adaptation and translation of national      August, 1994              10 professionals plus support
|    MAP                                                             MLL completed                                                         staff appointed and trained
Workshop to develop prototype MLL          September, 1994           Textbook trialling introduced
curriculum                                                           Training completed for
curriculum developers,
Translation and printing of prototype      December, 1994            autsos editors, illustrato.
MLL curriculum in all languages of                                   evaluato, designers and
instruction completed                                                production and distribution
staff
Orientation workshop for textbooks         January, 1995
writers
New MLL textbooks in use
Preparation of draft MLL textbook scripts    June, 1995              in all project districts
complete
New Student Workbooks and
Teacher Guides in use is all
schools in project districts
Strengthen State Council for        APSAP            SCERT           Appointment of staff for textbook           August, 1994              10 professionals appointed to
Educational Research and                                             development and INSET (2 readers, 7                                   Primary Curriculum, In-
Training (SCERT) to:                                                 lecturer)                                                             service Training and
o Improve pritnary pme-service                                                                                                             Research atnd Evaluation
teacher training                                                     Participation in TRG Workshop on            November 1994             Wings. Staff trained by
o Adapt NCERT prototype                                              Training Material Design                                              NCERT
uaining resource materials for use
at state, district and                                               Adaptation/translation/field testing of     March, 1995
school/community level                                               NCERT prototype INSET materials
o Train master trainers                                              completed
o Conduct Research Studies
o Support ECCE Programs                                              First master trainer program completed      April. 1995               30 trained and working
(25 participants)
Cooperating National Programt
Traimners in DIETSlTTIs trained (50        June, 1995
o RSCE                                                               persons)
o MAP
o Training Resource Group                                            Development and testing of Training         April, 1995 -
o Progrtns Evaluation Research                                       Package for Teachers                        continuing
and Studies
Development and Testing of Training        April, 1995 -
materials for sandwich course for          continuing
qualifying teacher
Procurement of computers and library       August, 1994
books completed
Appointment of staff to ECE unit (2        Augst, 1994
lecturers)
Development and testing of ECE             December, 1994
instuctor training maiterials completed
Development and testing of ECE teachers    February, 1994
handbook completed
FPcilities expansion at Dibrugarh TTI      June, 1995                Building reptis and
completed                                                            rentoations completed
Participation in NCERT Research            February, 1995            4 evaluation stndits of DPEP
OrDiesttion Coune                                                    activities completed



- 192 -
Annex 11
Page 8
Esiablish State Institute fnr        APSAP            SCERT/SlE        Complete civil works drawing  aind tenrer    January. 1995             Training room, heorel.
Educational Planning and                                               documents for review                                                   administrative offices
Administration as a wing in the                                                                                                               cotpleted, equipped and in
State Institute of Education (itself                                   Appoini Director and Academic/suppDrt        October. 1994             Lne.
part of SCERT) to develop and                                          staff to work in renrted fatcilities
implement management training
Procuremeni of vehcles and equipment        October. 1994
Cooperating Natintal Prograess                                         Staff development                            November/December,        I1 professiontl staff
o Training Resource Group                                                                                           1994                      appoinrtd at  trained by
o Technical Assistance In                                                                                                                     NIEPA and other intitutiom
Plinning and Managanent
Training seeds assessmernt for district     March. 1995                Materials developed and
staff compieted                                                        training progranms provided
to regional/district staff,
Development of block level master           April, 1995-               block education staff and
training package                            continuing                trainerrs education extemion
officers and administrative
officers of school boards,
beads of DIETS and primary
teacher training institutes,
headteachers, community
leaders (total 1200 persm)



- 193 -
Annex 11
Page 9
Table 3: State Cormonentm: Flnt Year Work Prxin;
Hanana
Nodal        Implement.
Objetives                    Agency        Agency                   Work ProgrTm 1994/95                                                End of Project
Stattw
Stare Implementation Society fully   State              HPSPP           Appointment of Staff                        June, 1994               Average 90 percent of annual
| finctioria4l                       Educt tion                                                                                              physical targets and
Depaqrtmen                         Procurement of equipment and vehicles      July, 1994                expenditures across state
Hwyan Prsthxnk Shilaha                                                                                                                       activities and districts
Pariyojana Pwihad (HPSPP)                                               Complete first spervision visit to          November, 1994           Each district, four timtes
districmt                                                            annually
Submit disbursement requesu                 November, 1994           Quarterly from second year of
project
Submit Anmial Report and Work Plan          December. 1994           100 percent on time
antd Badget
Complete supervision missiotm to            February, May 1995
districts
State School Statistis MIS           HPSPP             DPE              MIS facilities established and equipped     August, 1994 tBy end project year II
established                                             HPEPP           Appoint staff (5)                           October, 1994            IBy end project year 11
Cooperatng National Programs:                                           Software platform adopted and installed     November, 1994
o DPEP Burvau                                                           (From NIEPA)
o TA in Eduratdon  Planning                                             Training for uate MIS staff (NIEPA)         November,                 By end of project, initial and
and Manqanent                                                                                                        1994                    refresher training:
10 administators
Trainirg of district staff                  Janury, 1995              10 programmers and
operators
Training of headteachers                    February, 1995            3 systems aralystsltraining
offficers
First round data collection from schools    April, 1995
Data entry at district level                May, 1995                Quarterly reports
100 percent conformaunce witb
First trial report issued                   June, 1995               G0I requirements
Estaublish Hacyam Textbook           HPSPP             HTB              Tender ready construction drawings,         January, 1995             Contitruction and equipping
Board (HTB) to:                                                         specifitions and cost estimates for HTB                               complete
o have full respomibility fer                                           building
prepartuion, production and                                                                                                                   20 professionats plus support
distribution of textbooks aud                                           Technical and editorial staff appointed (8)    October, 1994          staff appointed and trained
related materials for classes 1-8
o regulate and fix prices of                                            Workshops (3) to develop MLL                 December, 1994           Textbook trialling introduced
textbooks and materials                                                 guidelines and curricula                                              Training completed for
o enter into atgreements with                                                                                                                 curriculum developers,
authors, editors, artiste, printers.                                    Field tsting of prototype MLL               January, 1995             authors, editors illustrators.
distributors and other entities in                                      curriculum                                                            evaluators deigyners and
pursuit of HTB objectives                                                                                                                     production and distribution
o ensure better design.                                                 Distribution of revised MLL curriculum       March, 1995              staff
illustratior, production quality
anud distribution of textbooks
New MLL textbooks in ume in
all project distrits
Cooperaaisg Natosal Program:
o Prtgfss for Isur tudiansl                                                                                                                   New Student Workbooks and
Mateial and Textbook Renewal                                                                                                                  Teacher Guides in use in all
So ACE                                                                                                                                        schools in project district
o MAP                                                                                                                                                             -       -1



- 194 -
Annex 11
Page 10
Strengthen State Courncil for       HPSPP             SCERT            Stuff appointment ( I Sr. Specialist, 2 Jr  July, 1994             Three professionals, two
Educational Research and                                               Specialists. 2 project fellows)                                    fellows and support staff
Training (SCERT) to:                                                                                                                      appointed and trained by
o Improve primary pre-service                                                                                                              NCERT
teacher training
o Adapt NCERT prototype                                                Procurement of office equipment            September, 1994         Offices re-equipped
training resource materials for use
at state, district and                                                 Participation in TRG Workshop on           November. 1994
school/community level                                                 Training Materials Design
o Train master trainers
o Conduct Research Studies                                             Workshops to identify training needs for   December. 1994
o Support ECCE Programs                                                INSET (3)
Cooperatg Nanusnal trosts:                                             Adaptation of NCERT prototype              March, 1995
materials (2 workshops)
o RSCE
o MAP                                                                  Training of Key Resource Persots (40)      April, 1995              60 masLer trainers trained and
o Tratning Rsource Group                                                                                                                   working
o Prgramt  Evaluatmon Research                                         Workshop to develop materials for initial  October, 1994
and Studies                                                            VEC member training
Workshop to identify gender bias in        June. 1994
textbooks
Development and testing of gender          December, 1994
semsitization training package for
education administrators
Traininig of trainers in genbder
sensitization from BRCs. DIETs, SCERT      February. 1995
(50 participants)
Appointment of ECE Cell Director           October, 1994           ECCE cell established with 2
professional stuff
Prototype learning materials
developed
Training manual for ECCE
workers printed and in use
('5iO copies)
Participation in NCERT Research            February, 1995          10 research studies of DPEP
Orientation Course                                                 activities completed



- 195 -
Annex 11
Page 11
Establish H rysm Institute for      HPSPP             HIEPA           Tender-mady drawing, specircuiors           Jassary. 1995           Administrtive, training,
Educatios Planninyg  nd                                               and cost estimtems                                                  hostel, Usaff quarts, audio-
Adminstrtion (HIEPA) at                                                                                                                   visual center buildings
Gurgion to:                                                                                                                               completed and in use
o Develop stat implement
mosgmemee trainirg                                                     Director appointed                         October. 1994           22 professional staff
o Maioge research and evalLntion                                       Heads of Braeches (5), kltwae  (10) and                            appointed and tmned by
atwivities                                                            support staff appointed to work in rented                           NIEPA and other instiltuiom
facilities
Materiesl developed and SO
Cooperatn  Natona Prourns:                                             Staff devlopmnt conducted by NIEPA         November-               trining progams provided to
o Trining lesource Group                                                                                          Decew ber, 1994         regionaildistrict staff, block
o Plopn   EVAbsatlo Reem h                                                                                                                education staff and trainers,
sad Studhs                                                             Worksbhqx to decelop trairing needs        March, 1995             education extension officers
o Tecal Asbtsum in                                                     asensim methods amd prottcols                                      and administrive officers of
Plaming   d Manag_nent                                                                                                                    schoo beards, heads of
Deelopment of hnnbook  for block and       April, 1995             DIETS snd primary teacher
district supervirs stad headeacher                                 training inslitutes,
hleadaclers, community
leaders and supervisory staff.
Panicipation in NCERT Resarch              Februry, 1995           Learninfg achievemest
Orictation Course                                                  assesnients completed in
third and sixth year of project
in 3 districts; studies in
Workshop to identify priority research     May. 1995               additional districk joining the
needs                                                              program
Multi-variate analysis of
achievemnt data comnpleted
in srventh year of project
10 research/evaluation stuidies
comsstisionedl antd comipleted
3 studie presented at riational
conferences
All studies discussed with
distrit implementalto  teams
and HPSPP Council
Pubicaion of quarterly
research bulletin



- 196 -
Annex 11
Page 12
Table 4: State Compnaonents: Flrst Year Work Pror, ms
KarnatAka
Nodal        Implement.
Objectives                   Agency        Ageucy                   Work Program  1994/95                                               End of Project
Status
State Implementation Society fully   State            KPSVY             Appointment of Staff                          June, 1994              Average 90 percent of annual
functional                           Education                                                                                               physical targets and
Department                         Procurement of equipment and vehicles        July, 1994              expenditures across state
Karnataka Prathamika                                                                                                                         activities and districts
Shikshans Vikas Yojana                                                  Complete first supervision visit to districts  November, 1994         Each district, four times
(KPSVY)                                                                                                                                      annually
Submit disbursement requests                 November, 1994          Quarterly from second year ot
project
Submit Annual Reports and Work Plan          December. t994          If)O percent on time
and Budget
Complete supervision missiom to districts    February, May
1995
State School Statistics MIS          State            KPSVY             MIS facilities established and equipped       August, 1994           IBy end project year I1
established                          Education        State EMIS        Appoint staff (5)                             October, 1994           [By end project year I1
Department      Cell
Cooperating National Programs:                                          Software platform adopted and imtalled        November, 1994         By end of project. initial and
o DPEP Bureau                                                           (From NIEPA)                                                         refresher:
o TA In Educational Planning                                            Training for state MIS staff (NIEPA)          November,               6 administrators
and Management                                                                                                        1994                    6 programmers and operators
3 systems analysts(training
Training of district staff                   January, 1995           officers
Training of headreachers                     February  1995
First round data collection from schools     April, 1995
Data entry at district level                 May, 1995               Qu rterly
I IX percent conformance rs,it
First trial report issued                    June, 1995              GOI requirements
Strengthen Department of State       KPSVY            DSERT             Develop Ml L Curriculum                       December, 1994         Textbook  nraIlling introduced
Educational Reseawch antd                                                                                                                    Training completed for
Training (DSERT) to develop and                                         Review reorbooks for gender bias and          December, 1994         curriculum developers,
publish new MLL textbooks and                                           quality                                                              authors, editors, dlluirrators,
related materials                                                                                                                            evaluators, designers atid
Develop draft textbooks, workbooks and       May, 1995               production and distribution
Cooperating National Programs:                                          supplementary readers for field testing                              staff
o Progirm  for Instrtctional
Material and Textbook Renewal                                           Procure DTP equipment                         August, 1994           Desktop publishing capacity
o RSCE                                                                                                                                       ismtalled and fully utiized
a MAP                                                                                                                                        Production  stork and
distribution control systems
computerized
New MLt. tesihooks in use in
all project districts
Primary 'student literature
published and in use (100
titles)



- 197 -
Annex 11
Page 13
Strengthen DSERT to improve          KPSVY            DSERT             Provide tender ready construction             January, 1995          Conference hall constructed
primary pre-service teacher                                             drawings, specifications and cost estimates                          and equipped; documentation
training.                                                               for DSERT expansion                                                  center and library upgraded:
o Develop and administer distance                                                                                                            computer unit established and
learning course for untrained                                           Participate in TRG Workshop on Training       November, 1995         equipped.
serving teachers                                                        Materials Design
o Adapt/translate protoype                                                                                                                   NCERT materials adapted
NCERT training modules                                                  Adapt and translate prototype teacher         March, 1995            and tested: additional state-
o Train master trainers                                                 training packages                                                    specific materials developed
in Kannada and minority
Coopersatng Natdonal Progrramn:                                                                                                              languages
o Training Resource Group                                              First master trainer training program         May, 1995              25 master trainers trained and
(25 participants)                                                    working in DIETs and BRCs
Strengthen DSERT capacity for        KPSVY            DSERT             Form research and evaluation coordination     June, 1994             At least 15
educational research and                                                group                                                                 research/evaluation siudies
evaluation by creating a network                                                                                                             commissioned by KPSVY
of research agerices and                                                Staff development in cooperation with         September, 1994        completed involving at lat5
supporting research in universities                                     NCERT                                                                 institutions
Cooperating Natdonal Progrram:                                          Develop teacher training modules on           December, 1994         Data base of research studies
o Program Evaluation research                                           classroom evaluation skills                                          funciomning in DSERT
and Studies
Participate in NCERT Research                February, 1995
Orientation Course
Train first batch of teachers in classroom   March, 1995
evaluation skills
Provide first research grants io PH D        October, 1994           10 doctoral studies completed
students                                                          I
Establish network of institutions    KPSVY            DSERT             Preparation of administration handbook        March, 1995            Materials developed, tested
under the coordination of the State                                                                                                          and revised and in use  Five
Department of State Educational                                         Preparation of training manuals for gender    May, 1995              initial and refresher training
Research and Training (DSERT)                                           sensitization                                                        programs for 25 master
to develop and implement                                                                                                                     trainers completed
management training.
Traming programs provided
Materials Development and                                                                                                                    to district and block education
Trainr Training:                                                                                                                             staff and trainers, heads of
Indian Institute of Management                                                                                                               DIETS and primary teacher
(IIM) (Bangalore)                                                                                                                            training institutes,
Institute of Social and Economic                                                                                                             headieachers, and VEC
Change (ISEC) (Bangalore)                                                                                                                    members (total 2000 persons,
Administrative Training Institute                                                                                                            50 courses)
(ATI) (Mysore)
Training Delivery
DSERT, DIETs, BRCs
Cooperating National Programs:
o Trainng Resource Group
o Technical Assistance In
Planning and Managesnent



- 198 -
Annex 11
Page 14
Tale S: State Cr_Pne      : FUnt Yew Work Prurmm
TolD Nadu
Noda        ImplementA                                                     Target Completion
Objectives                  Agetey       Aeecy                   Werk Program  1994/95                  Dates                     End of Project
Sun
State lnIplemerution Society fully  Stae            TNEFA           Appointment of Suff (S professiomols plus   June, 1994             Averae 90 percent of annal
functionm                           Education                       suppor staff)                                                      physical targets and
Deper                                                                                              cpenditures acres state
T=11 Nadu State Misslu of                                           Completion of tender ready cortruction       Jhtuary, 1995          ctivitier and dirtricu
Fducil  for Al (rNEFA)                                              drawings, specifications and cost estimatn                         Each district, four times
for DPEP Training Center/Office                                    anntmlly
Quarterly from second year of
Procurement of equipment ant vehicies       July, 1994
Complete first supervision visit to districu  November, 1994
Submit disbursement requeu                  November, 1994
Submit Amnual Report and Wark Plan and      December, 1994         100 percenm on time
Budget
Compicte supervision miusion to districus    February. May
1995
State School Staistics MIS         TNEFA            TNEFA           MIS facilities established and equipped      August. 1994          [By end project year 11
established                                                                                                                            [By end project year 11
Cooperating National Propm:                                         Software platform adopted and installed      November, 1994        [By end of project year 2:
o DPEP Bureu                                                        (From NIEPA)                                                         4 system fniftgrs
o TA in Educatlsl Pl_tsq                                            Training for state MIS staff (NIEPA)         November,               10 computer operato]
ad Maa.esset                                                                                                     1994
Training of district staff                  January, 1995
Training of headmechers                      Februry. 1995
Firt round data collection from schools     April. 1995
Data entry at district level                May, 1995              Quarterly
100 percent conformance wish
First trial report issued                   June, 1995             GOI requirements
Tamil Nadu Textbook Corportion      TNEFA           TNTBC           Procurement of DTP unit                      August, 1994          Textbook triallirg introduced
(TNTBC) Strergthened to develop                                                                                                        Training compeited for
nd publish new MLL textbooks                                        Training progrms for textbook authons       January, 1995          curriculum developers,
authors, editors, illuttrators
Cooperatsag Natoal P      tap                                       Draft Teachers Guidebook completed           April. 1995           designers and productuon and
|    Prarant for  1   1 t sdlun|                                                                                                       distribuLtion staff
Materl and Texstook Rnwal                                           Procurement of computers for Production      March, 1995
Control Unit
Desktop publishing capaity
|intalled and fully utilized
Production, stock and
distribution control systensm
computerized
New MLL textbok  is use in
all project districts
New Student Workbooks and
Teacher Guides in use in all
schools in projcwt distruicts
I                                 =I                                   



- 199 -
Annex 11
Page 15
Establish Division for Educational  TNEFA            DTERT           Appoint research staff (3) and support staff  August, 1994           Four professionals appointed
Research, Evaluation and                                                                                                                  and trained by NCERT
Monitoring estublished in                                            Procureesent of library books and equipment    November, 1994
Directorate of Teacher Education,
Research and Training (DTERT)                                        Participate in NCERT Research Orientation     February, 1995
to conduct educational research nd                                   Course                                                               Learning achievenrert
evaluation,                                                                                                                               assessment studies completed
in third and sixth year of
project in 3 districts; sItidies
Cooperating Nalnmsal Prograsm:                                                                                                            in additional districts joining
a Prograu  Evaluation Researh                                                                                                             the program
and Studie (NCERT)
Mulitvuriate anialysts of
achievement data completed
in seventh year of project
10 commissioned and
completed
3 studies presented at national
confereuces
All studies discussed with
ditrict implemientation teams
and TNEFA Council
Establish Division for Educational  TNEFA            DTERT           Training Facilities established and equipped  See under TNEFA        [By end project year 21
Planning, Management and                                             in DTERT                                      schedule above
Training in DTERT to train staie                                                                                                          4 professionals appointed and
and district staff                                                   Appoint staff (4 professionals) plus support  August 1994            trained by NIEPA
staff.
Cooperalng Natmnal Prograns:
o Traln-ng Resource Group                                            Patictipution in TRG Workshop on Training     November, 1994         20 training packages
o TA In Educational Planning                                         Materials Design                                                     completed and in regional
and Managament                                                                                                                            languages, including inter stl |
micro-planning, district
program  marnagement, school
supervision, stte program
management
Establish Center for Maths,         TNEFA            DTERT           Activities begin project year 2.                                     6 staff trained in RCE and
Science and Language in DTERT                                                                                                             MAP courses
to adapt and fiurther develop
prototype learning materials
Regional language and ST
language adaptations tested
Cooperatng Natinmsal Propasns                                                                                                             and in use in project districts
a RSCE
a MAP



- 200 -
Annex 11
Page 16
Table 6: State Conmpxonents: First Year Work Proramns
Matsarashtra
Nodal        Implement                                                         Target Completion
Objectives                   Agetcy        Agency                   Work Program  1994/95                    Dates                      End of Project
Status
Sute Implementation Society fuily    Statc            MPSP             Appointment of Staff (8 professionals plus     Jne. 1994             Average 90 percent of annual
functionml                           Education                         support staff)                                                       physical targets and
Department                                                                                            expenditures across state
Maharshira Ptrathd nik                                                 Procurement of equipment and vehicles          July, 1994            activities and districts
Shikuha- Parishad (MPSPI                                                                                                                    Each district, four times
Complete first supervision visit to districts  November. 1994        annually
Quarterly from second year of
Submit disbursement requests                   November, 1994        project
Submit Annual Reports and Work Plan and       December, 1994         100 percent on time
Budget
Complete supervision missions to districts     February. May
I1995
State School Statistics MIS          MPSP             Stati             MIS facilities established and equipped       lune, 1994            lBy end project year 11
etablished                                            Department       Appointment of staff (5)                       September. 1994       lBy end project year 11
of Education
Cooperating Natiwnal Prograins:                                        Software platform adopted and installed        November, 1994
o DPEP Bureau                                                          (From NIEPA)
o TA In iducatimnal Plmnning
and Managmnntt                                                         Workshops on MIS Utilization for               September. 1994-
administrators                                 March, 1995
Training for state MIS staff (NIEPA)           November, 1994
Training of district staff                    January, 1995
Training of headteachers                       February, 1995        By end of project, initial and
refresher:
First round data collection from schools      April. 1995            25 administrators
20 programmers and operators
Data entry at district level                  May, 1995               3 systems analysts/training
officers
First trial report issued                     June, 1995             Quarterly
100 percent conformance with
GOI requirements



- 201 -
Annex 11
Page 17
Strengthen Maharashtra State         MPSP             MBTPCR           Procurement of equipnoent and software to      September, 1994       Desktop publishing capacity
Bureau of Textbook Production                                          expand present DTP unit                                              iotalled and fully utilized
and Curriculum  Research                                                                                                                    Production, stock and
(MBTPCR) to develop and                                                                                                                     distribution conirol systems
publish new MLL textbooks and                                                                                                               computerized
related materials
Procurement of computers for production
and stock control, planunig, accounting,      October, 1994          Finaxce. accouxting,
Cooperating National Prograrras:                                      textbook MIS                                                          budgeting, personxel and
o Programn for Instructional                                                                                                                payroll systems computerized
Material and Teulboolk Renewal                                                                                                              and reports available quarterly
Formation of MLL Steering Committee           August, 1994           New MLL textbooks in use in
all project districts
Evaluation of Grade I textbooks               November, 1994
Training programs fur textbook writers,       March, 1994
resource persons and illustrators (286
participants)
Completion of prototype Grade I textbook      Jur, 1994
MSS
Strengthen State Counil for          MPSP             SCERT            Tender ready construction drawings,            January, 1995         Training rooms, workshops,
Educational Research and                                               specifications and cost estimates                                    science laboratories, library
Training (SCERT) to                                                                                                                         renovation completed
o Support nonformal education
o Develop training resource                                            Appointment of staff (3) to Non-formal         July, o994            3 Professional stuff appointed
materials for ose at state, district                                   Education Centre                                                     project year I
and schoolrcommunity level                                             NFE Teacher Handbook                           November, 1994        NFE material produced and in
NFE learners books Grades 1-5                 November, 1994         use.
Cooperating National Progransit                                        Training for NFE Resource Persons (20)         June, 1995            o curriculum
o student learning materials
o RSCE                                                                 Training designs and materials for block and   July, 1994            o resource person training
o MAP                                                                  district supervisors and administrators                              module
o Training Resoumrce Group                                             First year training courses (100 participants)  September-           o instructor's handbook
December, 1994
Participation in TRG Workshop on Training     November, 1994         Materials produced and in use
Materials Design                                                     o ECCE handbook and
training modules
o Pre-service teacher
Training syllabus for teacher educators        July, 1994            educator's manual for primary
FPrst teacher educator training (40           October, 1994          teacher trainers
participants)                                                        o Pre-service teacher
educator's manual for primary
Workshops for developing in-service           June-                  headmasters
training manuals for teachers and             October, 1994          o VEC and PTA members
headteachers
Training of INSET resource persons (40)        December, 1994
ECE Instructor training handbook              January. 1995
Training of ECE Resource Persons (20)          April, 1995
VEC Handbook
Distribution of Handbook                       December. 1994
Training of VEC resource persons (40)          April, 199$



- 202 -
Annex 11
Page 18
Establish Mahtsrashtra Insitute for    MPSP              MIEPA            Open MIEPA in rented facilities                  September, 1994         Administrative. training,
fducatiortal Planning and                                                 Tender ready constructions drawings.             January, 1995           hosel, staff quarters, audio-
Administration (MIEPA) at                                                 specifications and cost estimates                                        visual center buildings
Aurangabad to:                                                                                                                                     completed and in use.
o Develop and implenment
management training
o Manage research and evaluation                                          Appoinitment of staff                             August. 1994-          10 professional staff appointed
activities                                                                                                                  December, 1995         and traind by NIEPA and
oaher imtitutiots
Cooperating NttInal Progrtnss                                             Procurement of vehicle                           September. 1994
o Trainng Resource Group
o Progran Evalualios Research
and Studies (NCERT)
o Techncal Assstac  In
Planning and Maagsttsetnt                                                 Management training needs assessment              January, 1995          Materials developed and
report                                                                  training provided to
regionalldistrici staff (120).
First training package                           March, 1995            block education siaff and
trainers (400), education
extension officers and
administrative officers of
school buoards (2000) heads of
DIETS and primary teacher
training institutes (130), and
other supervisory staff (3000)
Learning achievernment udies
completed in third and sixth
year of project in 5 districts;
studies in additional districts
joining the program
Mulfi-vaniate analysis of
learning achievement data
completed in seveiith year of
project
Identification of first research study           January. 1995
Participation in NCERT Research                  February, 1995         Four professionals appointed
Orientation Course                                                      and trained by NCERr in
research
10 research studies
commissioned and completed
3 studies presented ai national
conferences
All studirs discussed with
district implrmentation teams
and MPSP Council
Establish Mahila Probodhan             MPSP              SCERT            Workshops to develop a) syllabi for training     December, 1994          Materials produced and in use
Program  (MPP) as a resource                                              women activists; b) Handbook for women                                   o Handbook and traitting
program  for girls education.                                             activists; training manual on gender                                     modules for women's education
sensitization (60 participants)                                         o Training manual for
First annuaMl training for women's              January. 1995           resource persons
empowerment resource persona (40)                                       a Training manual foe gender
4001 resource persons and
activists trained at district and
black levels



- 203 -
Annex 11
Page 19
Table 7: State Cononena: FIrst Year Work Prowram
Kerala
Nodal        Implememn                                                         Target Completion
Objectives                   Agenzy        Agetcy                   Work Program, 1994f95                    Dates                      End of Project
Status
State Implemematato Society fully    State            PEDSK            Appointment of Staff (16 professionals plus    April, 1994            Average 90 percent of annual
fuinctional                          Education                         support staff)                                                        physical targets and
Department                                                                                              expenditures across state
Primary Education Deeldopment                                          Procurement of equipment and vehicles          July  1994             activities and districts
Society of Keraa (PEDSK)                                                                                                                     Each district, four times
Complete first supervision visit to districts  November, 1994         annsully
Quarterly from second year of
Submit disbursement requests                  November, 1994          project
Submit Annual Reports and Work Plan and       December, 1994          100 percent on time
Budget
Complete supervision missions to districts    Februrary, May
r1995
State School Statistics MIS          PEDSK            State            Appointment of staff (5)                       July, 1994             IBy end project yer 11
established                                           Department       Software platform adopted and instlled         November, 1994          IBy end project year 11
of Education    (From NIEPA)
Cooperaing National Progrmnst
o DPEP Bureau                                                          Training for state MIS staff (NIEPA)           November,              By end of project, initial and
o TA in Educatioal PInning                                                                                           1994                   refresher
and Maagenutnt                                                         Training of district staff                                             6 administrators
January. 1995           6 programmers and operators
Training of headteachers                                               3 systems analysts/training
February, 1995         officers
First round data collection fTom schools
April, 1995
Data entry at district level
May. 1995
First trial report issued
lair, 1995
Quarterly reports
100 percent conformance with
GOI requirements
Strengthen Textbook Office (TO)      PEDSK            DPI/TO           Training course for staff in MLL               October, 1994          Texnbook trialling itoroduced
in Directorate of Public                                                                                                                     Training completed for
Instnuction to develop and publish                                     Develop MLL curricula                          January, 1995          curriculum developers,
new MLL textbooks and related                                                                                                                authors, editors, illustrators,
materials                                                              Workshop to prepare student workbook           March, 1995            evaluators, desigers and
Workshop to prepare Teacher handbook          April, 1995             production and distribution
Cooperating Naioal Progr-ns:                                                                                                                 staff
o Program  for Instnrctonal                                            Gender and SC/ST bias analysis of              December, 1994
Material and Textbook Remewal                                         textbooks                                                               Desktop publishing capacity
o RSCE                                                                                                                                        installed and fully utilized
o MAP                                                                  Preparation of MLL MSS for Grade I             May, 1995               Production, stork and
distribution control systems
computerized
New MLL tenibookcs
published and in use in all
project districts
New Student Workbooks and
Teacher Gaides in use in all
schools in project districts



- 204 -
Annex 1 1
Page 20
Convert State Institute of           PEDSK            SCERT            Register SCERT as Society                      April, 1994            Register SC'ERT as a siely
Education into State Council foe
Educational Research and                                                                                                                     Director and Senior Staff
Training (SCERT) to:                                                   Participate in TRG Workshop on Training        November, 1994          recruited and appointed
o Improve primary pre-service                                          Materials Design
teacher training
o Adapt NCERT prototype                                                Adapt NCERT prototype INSET training           March, 1995            Proto-type NCERF materials
training resource materials for use                                    packages                                                              adapted, translated anid field
at stare, district and                                                 Field Testing of packages                      April, 1995            tested for trahier training auid
school/community level                                                                                                                       for teacher trainitig
o Train master trainers                                                Training of DIET trainers (15)                 May, 1995
70 master trainers trained and
o Conduct Research Studies                                                                                                                   working in DIET's and BRCs
o Support ECCE Programs
Participate in NCERT Reseach Orientation      February, 1995          10 research stadics
Course                                                                commissioined and cinmpletrd
Cooperating Nadmonal Programs:
o RSCE
o MAP
o Tralniag Resourre Group
o Progratu  Enaluation Research
and Studies
Establisli State Institute for       APSAP            SCERT/SIE        Appoint Director                               April, 1994            6 professional stalf appoinied
Educational Management and                                                                                                                   and trained by NIEI'A and
Training as a wing in the SCERT                                        Appoint professional staff (6) and support     November, 1995         other institutions
to develop and implement                                               staff to operate in existing facilities
management training and to
conduwt and sponsor evaluation                                         Tender ready construction drawings,            January, I995
research                                                               specifications and cost estimates Staff
development
Cooperating National Progrtunst
o Training Resource Group                                              Management training needs assessment           March, 1995            Materials deseloped and
o Technical Assistance in                                              report                                                                training programs provided to
Planning tand Mnsagemnent                                              Number and quality of training programs                               district and block edcatiion
o Progran Evaluation Research                                                                                                                staff and trainers, heads of
and Studies                                                                                                                                  DIETS and primary teacher
training institutes.
headteachers, cotimullit)
leaders (t.tal 1500 trersins
50 courses)
Ten research and evaluation
studies completed, 3
presented al natiornral
conferences
Learning achievemnert
assessments completed in
third and sixnh year or prir)ect
in 5 districts. studies in
additional disirjits roining the
program



- 205 -
STATE: Assam                                                                                                                                                     Anex 12
DISTRICT: State Proposal                                                                                                                                            Page I
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the lst Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT I ACTIVITY                                                      PHYSICAL TARGET                   FISCAL YR. 9495 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
1l FSCAL YR         PROJECT        REIEING  NON-RECUR    TOTAL    RECUING  NON-R1ICER    TTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
PROIECT MANAGEMENT. STAFF FOB FM                                                                              6.26                  6.26        43.36                 43.36
PROJECT MANAGMENT - VEHICLE                                                                                               2.69     2.69                      4 50      4.47
PROJECT MANAGSIENT. aoKs                                                                                                  I 00      1.00                     2.0)      2.D0
SCRIPT DEVELOFPENT FOR STAGING DRAMAS                                                                                     0.34      0.34                     0 50      0.54
DESIGN DEVLOPMENT PMr P610t6 CAMPAIGN                                                                                     1.00      L.0                      L0D       .00
FROG ON CONVERGENCE OF WOMEN S EMPOWEMIENT FROG oWLS *CIST SU                                                             0 50     0 50                      2.00      2.00
ADOPTATION OF NATIONAL VERSION OF M LL                                                                                    0 58      0 58                     0.60      0.36
DEVELOFMENT OF M LL  0ASED CUnR0CULUM54                                                                                  22.49     22.49                    22.50     22.49
DEVELO)FU4ENT OF TEmOOES ON M L L BASED CLUUOCULJU                                                                        9 16      9 16                     9.20      9 16
CUSTOMIMING MROT.TYFE TRAINING MATEI(ALS                                                                                  0.50      0.50                     0.50      O 50
TRAINING OF SCERTMIET FACULTY MEMBERS                                                                                    1.29      1.29                     1.30      1.29
TRAINING OF D1ETm STAFF BY TRANED MUASTERSTAINERS                                                                         0.64     0.64                      0.60      0.64
0ANDWI0 9 COURSE FOR UNTRAINED TEACHEIS                                                                                  10.-0     10.30                    64.00     64.05
DEVE OF TRANING PACXAGE FOR TEACHERS OF SCLBRC.DIET A Tm LEVEL                                                            2.39      2.39                     2.40      2.39
DEELOPME'S4NT OF TrAINING MATERIALS FORD* H7II  COURSE                                                                    0.63     0.63                      3.40      3.40
APPOINTIWENT OF ADDMONAL STAFF AT SCERT FOR DFEP                                                              5.48                  5.49        46.55                 46.55
MOVEMENT OF OFFICERS (TADAI                                                                                   0.05U                0.50          5 31                  5.33I
COSNTRUCTION OF ADDrONAL HOSTEL.FOR7 TRAINES EACH IN 4 TMl                                                               1000      1000                     49.40     48.40
CONSTRUCTION OF A TRAINEES HOSTEL FOR 25 PARTICIPANTS AT SCERT                                                            6.25      6.25                    16.20     16.2
SIrKENGTIIENT4  OF SCURT lBRARY- SOURS                                                                                    200       2.30                    1030      10.00
STrRENGTHENNG OF SCURT UHilSRY . FERIODICALS                                                                  0 50                  0.30         2 50                  2.50
STRCNGTOFAIINS OF SCERT LISSARY  REPROGRAPHY (UACIINE)                                                                    1.00      1.00                     1.00      I 00
STRENATIJENINO OF SCEIT UEBRARY  RETROGRAHY (RUNNING COST)                                                    0 10                  0 10         0.50                  0 so
RESEARCH CWMPETENCY. DEVELOPMENT                                                                              2.0D                  2.00        12.20                 12.20
EIUDIF.NT COMPUTED SYSTEM (2 FCS 48)                                                                                      4.00      4.00                     4.00      4.00
APOFINTFMT OF ADDIONAL STAFF IN SCERT FOR ECCE (2 LEUIRES)                                                   0.80                  0.80         7.37                  7.57
AUGMENTATION OF ECCE FACULT. USRAY -DOM                                                                                   2 20      2.20                     240       2.40
AUGMENTATION OF ECCE FACULTY. JOURNALS A PRODICALS0 08                                                                              0.0          0.40                  0.40
AUG           OF CCE FACULTY         IC  FACILITY (MACHNE)                                                                3.00      3.00                     3.00      3.00
AUGMENTATION OF ECCE FACULTY. REMOGRAHJC FACIJTYfCCNGCY)                                                      0 20                  0.20         1.00                  1.00
AUGMENTATION OF ECCE FACULTY SOFTWARE R VIDEO-AUO POGRAME                                                                 0.80      0.80                     4.00      4.00
AUGMENTATION OF ECCE FACULTY . TAGDA FO DEPUTINO FACULTY MEMERS E                                                         1.60      1.60                     8.50      8.30
AUGMENTATIoN OF OFECCE FACULTY - REARCH S EVALUATION STUDY                                                                2.00      2.00                    10.00     1030
AUJGMENTATON OF FCCE FACULTY - DSSE-INATION OF GDOD MRATICES                                                  0 40                 0.40          2.00                  2 00
TEACHIER TRAINISG FORF  E PRIMARY                                                                                         0 30      0.30                     0 30      0.30
DVELoFMENT OF TRAINING MATERIALS FR ECCE                                                                                  0.37      0.37                     0 40      0.37
DEELOPMENT OF EACE CURRICIILUU                                                                                            0 32      0 32                     0 30      0.32
STRENGTSIENIN  OF ExISTING GOUT PrE-PR TCN TR CENTRENON.RECURRING                                                         9 s       918                      920       9.16
PROJECT MANAGE)4ENT. EJ2IPMENT N65 7                                                                                                3 7                       80       5.76
PROIECT MANAGEMENT . FURNmRE                                                                                              5 76      5.76                     5 80      5 76
RENT) PROJECT MANAGEMENT. RENTAL                                                                              1.20                  1.20         694                  696
PROJECTMANAGEMFNT. FFICE1 XP                                                                                  3.00                  3.00        2330                  23.00
MIS COMPUTER HARDWARE & SOFTWARE                                                                                         1312      13.25                    13.20     13.25
MIS -FEES T CONSULTANAT                                                                                                   1 00      1.00                     2 00      2.0)
M I s MAN PFWER                                                                                               2 25                  225         13.74                 13.74
 IS CONSUMABLE & OFFICE E)P                                                                                  6 4                   6 54        3498                  34.W
TEXTXKI PRINTING SALERY                                                                                       7 20                  7 20        25.53                 25.55
Tn2ITSOCIIs rPRINTING. EQUIPMENT                                                    5 DTP PRINTERS                       14.30     14 30                    14 30     14.30
TEmSCRS1I1 PRINTING CIVIL WSF6K1 1.80                                                                                              IO                       2.50      2.30
TnXTAIRs PRINTING. A PC A FURCHASE OF SCANES                                                                              0.70     0.70                     300.70    100.70
sIEMT CiIIL WORKS                                                                                                        10.00     10.0                    119.20    119.20
(RENTl)MUMT RENT                                                                                              0 30                  0.30         4.10                  4 10
SIEMT OFFICE 6 iOSTEL FURNMJOE                                                                                            2.00      2.00                    15.00     15.00
SIEWT- OFFICE 6 HOSTEL EQUIFUENT                                                                                          2.00      200                     15.00     15.00
SIEMT VEHiCLE                                                                                                             2.69      2.69                     2.70      2.69
51EWT PREPARATION OF TRAINING MATERIAL                                                                                    0.30      0.30                     0.60      0 60
SEMiT ULRARY FUVNMITE                                                                                                    1.00      (.00                     5.00      5.00
sMEM-T SALARY                                                                                                  .252                 82          60.45                 60.4
SIEMT STVFF 0EV 6 TRAINING WO6RSHOP                                                                           2.15                  2.15        26.46                 26.49
sEIMT IBi RARY   SA S STUDY RESEARCII                                                                                     2300      2.0                     20.00     20.00
TREMT. IFFICE EUF. PUBCATION, TAXES                                                                           4300                  4.00        30 00                 30.00
3 VEHICLES (I POR 3 VeHICLRS (I POR
SIEMT VEIILE FOR DIRECTOR A COMON FOOL                            DIRECTOR & 2 FDR DIRECTOR & 2 PR                        930       930                      9 00      9 00
COMMON POOL)  COMMON POOL)
MANAGEMENT  EHNILE COMMON P-OL                                    2 VEHICLES        2 VEHICLES                            6.0       6300                     6 0       6.00
ToI Cawpadty Buildhn           3 1.41 |    7473     2614 |       34663       369.30    923.66
To(sI Coot | Z     1.41         174.73    2 26.14]  3  65 |           a6



- 206 -
STATE: Assam                                                                                                                                                         Anex 12
DISTRICT: Darrang                                                                                                                                                        Page 2
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the ld Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT t ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 9W COST                  TOTAL PROJECT COST
1- NFCAL YR.        PRoIECT         RCURIC    O-aRCUR   TOTAL    RECI3DOG  N0PI411ZCUR    T3AL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
(RENT) RENTAL                                                                                                    0 40                  0.40          2.0             2|80
STAFF SALAR1                                                                                                      33                   3.63         31.44                 31.44
VEHICLE                                                                                                                      2.69      2.69                      2.70      2.69
BQUI0IEHT                                                                                                                    3.60      3.60                      4.00      4.00
STAFF                                                               4                 4                          0.U1                  0.U8         10.25                 10.25
90UIWINT                                                                                                                     9.00      9.00                      9.00      9.00
TAIPIG OF H U ON PIANINOAM M4AGDENT                                 60                321S                                   0.60      0.60                     32.20     32.1I
TrAno oF VEC mUUasS ONV I4                                          100               3S230                                  0.60      0.60                    229.30    229.30
DIET. CUW7T4IAT1  OF PRaTGTYPE D0V6LO EDBY IMCERT                                                                             0.50    0.50                      0 .30     0 s
Total Capadty BUding  |          4.91        16.99    21390         44.49      27m.90    322 36|
IMPROVING RETENTION
OPEN8ING IWE FM CLA&0 IN RElSTlIO OCH -4IUNAATMII TEACHEI          135                I70               |        0.14                  0.14         42.26                 42.26|
Total mpOvlng Retontlon  |          0.14                  0.14         42.26                 42.26
IMPROVING ACCESS
O|FUNOF NEWSCHOOLS ICONTICtSOF BUILDING)                            6(60% d k 6 ") 60( 133-75) PE _WB                        8.10      B.10                     3.60    135300
CONSTRUCTION OF ULDIO POR EUlOFRE4ARYSCIIHOOL - FE                 6                  60(69-60) PER WB                       8.10      S.30                    330.0     133.00
R|04OVA7IONOFDILANDATEDSCH8CLS PFE                                 6                  100                                    3.80      3.00                     32.80     32.4
commucfloN OF ADDrTOIALCtASS R08045                                 5                 25                                     380       5.00                     26.40     26.41
COnERTIOFTOIL RI(FOR OMLS)                                         12                 330                                    3.92      L92                      39.20     69 17
K- -   r_  a_z  ct_s   >_   3   SCHOOLS PE:R W73  7.3S                   39680    39680
COCMTIUCTYINOF LDCK)EROUItCECOEE                                    3                 6                                     13.30     15.30                     53.90     338U
5GCK RnotJRE       _       _OFF3CE90jIP480T                         3                 6                                      0.90      0.90                      30        3.80
(RAENT) LOCK SOURCECENTRE  RENTAL                                   3                 6                          0.96                  096           3.84                  38.
BLOM RUIIC RCE CIETRE  rTAFF TRAINING CO-ORDINATOR                 3                  6                          0.nl                  0.72         11.75                 33 73
BLOCK EREDIRCE CLNR  L.D.A CUM TYTT                                 3                                            0.60                  0.60          980                   9.80
|OCK RO8JRCE CENTRE 0RADE IV ATT8NWDT                               3                 6                          0.39                  0.39          6.2                   6.20
BLOCKRUOVRcCDETRE CONTINGENCY                                      3                  6                              .I3               0.35          2.40                  2.40
OCK RUEOURCECWENT - URAEY  (0DU                                    3                  6                                      0.60      0.60                      1.40      133
MO _CK RCORCE CSTR   SUPPLY OF NEWSPArt a PERJO OCAJS              3                  6                          0.03                  0.03          0.51                  0 51
|LCK ROURCE CUNT8E FURNIURrE  CLUJDINM 8DO CAuE FMR TBOACH)    3                      6                                      0.45      0.45           I            8K      3.80
BLOCK R8O0RCE CWNTRE rYRWRffER (IRBOKAL LANOUAG                    3                  6                                      0.30      0.30                      0.60      0 60
SCHOOLCObrOE- CfT OFADL- TEACHER                                    S                 3oo                        1.20                  1.20        167.17                167317
SCHOOL COMPLL E  CONTSNOENCY                                        3                 360                        0.25                  0.25         20.20                 2020
SC|   0LCO8MPLEUREARY BOOKS                                                           30l                                    0.50      0 3                      14.10     1405
TRADOHiSWR1TERM.IRC (orDAY31                                       112                96                                     01.2      0.12                      1.00      096
T.aNN  SC - CLUmR RESOURCE TEACHER (K4 LEAD SCHDOL   3 07rHER    |20                 8W0                                     0.32      0.12                      4 80      4.80
Total Improving Acs  |           430        51 79     56 09        221 95 3    64. 60 [  906.44
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
rOViio    OF TLACN -LEtNIN MOAkENRIAL TO ESTING ECHNoOU COS        | 3467             9025                                  18.34     18.34                     98.70 | 9 71
O|      MNlOE PR. CLAE i EXL5T0no cHoo40    - MIATERIALEQUI./Fut    5                 1370                                   0.25      0.23                    102.00    102.00
O|EDH PO  PR. CLAR  INI EXR3      M RCMHU- CONTINoENCY      |                         1370                       0.01                  0.01          3.9        |            19
TRAI NO  C -H1iOF PRIAAY CHOOLS-PFE                                60                 3218                                   036       0.36                     19.30     19.31
T| AWNH0 OF ASnT TEACHER- -FF                                      360                8390                                   0 30      0.30s                    43.00     42. 96
ENVIRmN@ETAL WULDINO - MEMTIGAIMEINAERSDSCUESIOPS STC              20                 2625                                     00     31.00                    303.50    303.30
|EVIRO&IENTAL RLB LDINU H O TER CA6FAJON                           130                25530                        |0                  I 80         26.30                 26.50
|ERVIO ffCn AL 8U110H0 FAMFILET.noHE HUNDRED ON I VILLAoE          1300               27375                      0.20                  0.20         54.75 3               54.75
C| NTINOINCY lOS EooRUIn  OsCH(.O    3.-. SCHOOL. YEAE            314308CHOOLS        1430 SCHOOL OFOR1   1          |      20.76     28.76                    20130    201332
COTV0ECYFR XITIGSCOD II R 20= SHOL Ykg139SCOOS                  7 YEARS                                     I___                                I
DIan  VEHDCI.80                                                      VEHICLE          I VEHICLE                              3.00      3.00                      3.00      3.0
DIET - VEUL8                                                        I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                              3.0       3.80                      3.80      3.00
Mc  VEHICLE COINION POOL                                            I VEHICLE ZOR 3  2 VEHICLE FOR 6                         360       3.80                      6.00      6 0
Total Improvhng Learning Adrieemnt |              21 |      58.21T|    59I42    I |859j80 |  94224]
Total Cow          10.56      126.99T   137.53 3     391314    3 1,822.30 | 2,213.30 |



- 207 -
STATE: Assam                                                                                                                                                         Annex12
DISTRICT: Dhubri                                                                                                                                                         Page 3
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing Distrkct Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST               TOTAL PIROJECT COST
1. FISAL YR.        PROJECT        RECURRING  NON-RECURfi   TOAL    RECURRING  NON-RECUR    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITMTONAL CAPACITY                                           ___
DIET LEVIEL ACTIVMTES -ADOPIATION/FIELD TESTING/EACKAGE                     I                 I                              0.50      0 50                      0.50      0 50
(RENTE) PROJECT MANAGEMIENT COT (RENTAL S MONTh)                       a MONTHS          56 MONTHS               0 40                  0 40          2 80                  2900
STAFF SALARY                                                           a MONTHS            5 YEARS               3.63                  3 63         SI 7                  31.17
VEHICLES                                                                    I                 I                              2 69      2 69                      2 70      2.69
EQUIJIMENT                                                                  I                 I                              3 60      3.60                      30        3 60
MIS STAFF SLALRY                                                        I moNtHO           SYEARS                085                   080s         10 25                 10 25
MIS BQUIPMENT                                                             I SET             I SET                            0.09      0.09                      0.10      0.09
TRAININO OFIHEADMASTER                                                     60                306036                                    0.3686                             1.3
TRAINING vUc                                                               109               12                               .0       0600.0                            19
TotalICapactyDBuidlng  1         4.91]1      794~  12 75]1          44 22[     214 70    25182]
IMPROVING RETENTION_________
OFERATINO PRE PR CLASSE E C C E   RENUMER.ATIONI PO TECHERS                 5                 170                0.14                  0 14 1       92 26 192 26
E.C C UE  EQUIFPMENT(FUJRNrTIJE                                             0                 170                            0.25      0 23                    102 09    102 09
EC C E -CONTENGENCY                                                        5                 170                0.01                  0 01          I118                  I 1I
PEOAOOOICAL TRAINING (HM)                                                  60                3094                            0.36      0.36                     18 60     18357
TRAINING 90R AT - FF                                                       100               5590                            05        0. O50                   27.90     27 93
MEETINGS13EMINARS                                                          28                130                             1.40      1.40                      6.90      6.90
POSTE CASIFAPAON                                                           109               2634                1.09                  I (0         26.34                 26.34
FROVISION4OFTEACHINO;LEARNINOMATERIALSICOIIUMABLES)                1      2738               144                            13 69     13.69                     70.20     70 211
Total Improving Retention  [        1.15 1     16 20 1 17351 [        119 78]1    225 60 [  34541]
IMPROVING ACCESS
CONSTRUCTION OFEUEn1TNGSCHOOL UILDANG- pF                                   3                 40                             6.25      6.27                     90 00     90 09
REPAIRING OF SCHOOL BUILDING. M kAINTENANCE COST                            t0                30                             3.00      3.09                     10.20     10.25
REPAIJUNO OF SCHOOL BVILDING MAJOR REPAIR                                  13                 1 3                            3.90      3.90                      7.50      7.50
CONSTRUCTION OF ADDrTIONAL ROOMS                                            3                 a                              3.09      3.00                      8.09      8.09
CONSRMUCTION OF TOILETS                                                 7 TOILETS        309 TOILETS                         I I2      I 12                     90.09     60.09
CONSTRICTON OFRIRC                                                       3RBRCS             8 RECS                          13.30     15.30                     6309      68009
CONSTRUICT1O  OF SCHOOL CLUSTE                                              5                 too                            7 38      7 38                    246 09    246 09
(REENAT RENT OF EEC                                                        24                 69                 0.72                  0 72          2 76                  2 76
OFFICE BOUIPMENTS FORt MC                                                   S                 I                              0909      0.90                      2 40      2.40
STAFF FOR EEC CCOOEOINATION)                                                5                 8                  0 77                  0 72         14 65                 14.65
STAFF MOR BEEC (LISA)                                                       3                 a                  0.60                  0 60         12 21                 12.21
STAFF FOERBtCGRADE IV                                                       3                 8                  0 39                  0.39    ~     782                   7.82
CONTINGENCY POR MkC                                                         3                 a                  0 13                  0.1I5         1.65                  1.65
UBRARY BOOKS90 PDEBC                                                        3                 8                              0 60      0.60                      1.60      1 60
NEWSPAPERS/PERIOOICALS TO) MC                                               3                 80 03                                    0.03          0.33                  0 33
FURNITURE INCLUDING OOK04 CASE                                              3                 8                              0.45      0.43                      I 20      I 20
SCHOOL COMPLEY - AonOKOAL TEACH4ER                                          5                 109                1.20                  1.20        167 38                167 38
SCHO-OL COMPLEY  CONTENOENCY                                                3                 109                0.23                  0.25         20.09                 20009
SCHOOL CCOMPLEY - UREARY BOOKS                                              3                 109                            009o      0.09                     It 10     11.14
MASTER TRAINSNO POR BRC                                                     12       1        64                             0 12      0.12                      0 60      0 64
PMPHILEIS                                                                 IOD               2634                2.09                  2 09          560                   5.60
NEW SCHOOL CONSTRUJCTSON                                               S SCHOOLS       76) SCHOOLS PER                       6 25      6 25                    223 09    225.09
WB
C06(nNOENCY TO NEW CHOOL aRS 2S.0- MM SCNOOLTYEAX                     1371 SCHOOLS   8371 SCHOOLS FO                        27.42     27.42                     191 90    191.94
7 YEARS
DIET VEHICLE                                                            I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                          3 09      3.09                      3 09      3.09
BRC - VEHICLE FOR COMMON OO,I VEHICLE FOR 3  I VEHICLE FOR 3                                                                     0     3.09                      3.09      3 09
BRCS              BRCS
Total Insprovtng Acc             6 06       82 19     08ge25       224          45      .00
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMEENT
To  tl mproving L-tamig Achievement                                           [7         j      ]j       ]
Total Cas          12.12F     106 23    118.35  1     309640    1.389 091 1786.30 



- 208 -
STATE: Assam                                                                                                                                                  AnIx 12
DISTRICT: Karbi Anglong                                                                                                                                           Page 4
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Sbowing District Activitles Commendng in the Is Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHI)
COMPONENT  ACTIVITY                                                      PHEYSICAL TARGET                 FISCAL YR. %-n COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
U 711CAL M. YB       RJfECT       USCUBUEIC  NOS-EU        mTAL    RCUBR6          -EWCU     T0AL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITYf
(nI RElNT N THE IT YA"                                                   I                                  o 0.40               0.40         2.20                  2.20
STAFF                                                                                 ANNEXURE              3.63                 3.63        29.41                 29 41
T.AI./DA. FOR DrEP TAFF                                                                                                2169      2.69                     80.a      88.0
EQULAMENT                                                                                                              3.60      360                      360       3.60
COlfnDENCY                                                                                                  3.00                 3.00        23.00                 23.00
STAFF                                                                                ANNEXURE               0.U8                 0u          12.47                12.47
BQUOMENT                                                                             ANNEXURE                           9.00     9c00                    28.30     2S.30
TRA         FMO HEAD MASMATEX                                           60               873                            0.60      .60                    30.70    30.66
3 OFOR VSC UEUaI                                                I        0o             4399                           0.60      0.60                   26400   26460
Total Capacty Building  [       7.911      16.49 1   24.40 1 [   67.081    33600 1 |4M04I
IMPROVING RETENTION
RC . TIANOFOR UM  TERTEACH                                              12                 6                            0.12     0.12                     0 0.60    0.6
CLUSER RESOURCE TEACHER                                                 20               624                            0.12     0.12                     3.70      3.74
lLArMASTURA ASD TAN  CTEACHE- PF160                                                      7646                          0.16      0.86                    13.40     1342
EDSNVu1O4ENTAL BUL0D00U0  MEEnuEsO WRPAk94RJT1                          228              4 179                          260      2.60 37.20                        5.20
PBOV005OFTEACHINOLEARNOIMATDUAL  rn5                              2532 TEACHERS    2532 TEACHERS                       12.91    12.91                    64.30     64.33
DROVB  OFBOOS  PFE                                                     1415              1415                          11 32    11.32                    39.60     39.64
CV                                                                I VEHICLE FOR 3 I  VEHICLE FOR 3                      3 00     300                      300       3 00
Dor TVEHICLE                                                        I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                        3300      300                      300       300
COIST3NOENCY FlING FOR FlaliO ICoBEtDT.Uo  ZnnIlCI400L YEAR  1413 SCHOOLS    415 SCHOOLS                    73.30     2.30                    196HS0    199910
C -   -  FOR            L    -                     .5 SCHOOLS__________  7 YEARtS                                       
Total Imprving Retention  I                  62 23 |   62.23 | | __   3|4.10 1  384.21]
lIMPROVING ACCESS
CO    UTRLCTS OF NEW SCHOOL BUILDI                                  4 SCHOOLS        III SCHOOLS                        6.22     6.22 |                 278.50_  278.49
20 BUILDINGS(39-
SCHOOL BUILDING -CONTUCloN                                         4 BUILDINGS   20) AS PER WORLD                       6 22     6.22                    51.80 |    1.0|
BANK
MAO RErAJ  . SCHOOL 800ILD0N                                       8 BUILDINGS       43 BUILDINGS                       4 64     4 64                    24 90    24 94
MIOR RAIRP   - SCHOOL   W UILDtNW                                  I BUILDINGS       30 BUILDINGS           280                  2.80        12.60                 12.60
AOMOTm AL CLASSROOMr                                                2 SCHOOLS        30 SCHOOLS                         2.30     2.30                    43.70     43.70
C| MaUCT iOFo MC                                                       3RRC             sBRC                           17.60     17.60                   4090I   4089
|UN9VATiOToOFWOM8NII   O T o n TO  I "     DA  C                       I BRC            I BRC                           2.11     2.11                     2.10     2.11
|O    UCTION c m OFSCHOOLCLUnB                                  j  3CLUSTERS         40CLUSTERS               3|10              S.10                   113.20    11320
| copmucYIoti OF,olu                                            |   6TOILESS |  706TOILETS                               10      1.08                   127.10    12706
(ROM RET FORUIRC                                                |     3BRC              3BRC                o.n                  0 72 0o72                         072
I OFFICE BQUivWr                                                | 3 BRC HOSTELS    S BRC-HOSTELS                        0.90     0.90                     2 40     2.40
MC| C.7ALY                                                      | 3BRCHOSTELS |SBRC-HOSTELS                 1.71                 1.71        22|96                 22.96
MC - CONTRiiNCY                                                 | 3BRCHOSTELS |  BRC-HOSTELS                0.39                 0.39 | |      .92                  3 |  92
IIIILC - UUWItAY     & PERIODICALS                              I3BRCHOSTELS      SBRC-HOSTELS                          1.0      l.0||                    3.50     3.70
|RC c  ErBQuDuEN                                                  3 BRC HOSTELS    S1BRC-HOSTELS                       0.0      .0 0                      0.30     0.30s
|UXTU -U=   ADrMONAL ALARY    ,c |OKrDKCC LUSTEREs                                   40CLUSTERS             1.45                 1.43        37.26                 37.26
| CWnK - BOOU                                                       5 CLUSTERS   1  40 CLUSTERS                        0.30      0.30                     4890     4.81
IC .-SALA Y                                                              5               176                0.14                 0.14        44.21                44.21
| Cj. 90SIIAISNT & FURNflUR & COPTE- r4CY                               5        ]        7                            0.26      0.26                   132.30    132.U2
MT. TRADNO MATERIAL                                                                                                    0.30 I    0.30                     0.30     0.S0
Total Improving A              7.21       49.01     s6.n        123.67 |    834.50 |  958.15
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total Improving Learnlng Achlevnent   1
Total Cot         I 5.12|    127.73    142.13      190.75S    1,554.60  1,745.40|



- 209 -
STATE: Assam                                                    *                                                                                                             12
DISTRICT: Morigaon                                                                                                                                                      Page 5
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE Il
Showing District Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 96-5 COST                TOTAL PROJECT COST
i 1 nSCAL YR.       PROJECT         llCIURD6   E1H.c13    TOTAL          UCURII  PN8rC           TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Total Capacity Buildi|a
IMPROVING RETENTION
TAFF - PWE                                                                  I                 1                  3.63                  3.63         24.57                 24.57
EO,IPMUENT - PWE                                                            I                  I                             4.0D      4.00                     31.h0     31.60
VEHICLES                                                                    I                  1                             2.69      2.69                      2.70      2.69
MASTER TRAINING *RC                                                         116                0                             0.16      0.16                      0.80      0.80
N.M                                                                        20                goo                             0.12      0.12                      4.l0      4.80
A.T                                                                        100               5231                            0.50      0.50                     26.10     26.10
HN                                                                         60                1612                            0.36      0.36                     10.30     10.30
A.T.                                                                       100               5238                            0.50      0.50                     10.30     10.30
V.E C MEUIIERS                                                             100              21525                            0.h0      0.60                    189.20    689.15
LADY MEMBER                                                                100               4020                            0.50      0.50                     25.10     25.10
S.C./S.T MEMBUER                                                           500               5500                            0.50      0.50                     33.00     33.00
PLANNING A MANAGEMENT                                                      20                 20                             0.24      0.24                     72.00     72.00
E.C C E.                                                                   20                400                             0.24      0.24                     11.60     11.64
(RENT) RENTAL                                                               4                 6                  0.96                  0.96          2.00                  2.U9
FURNITURE FOR RENTAL BRC                                                    4                 4                              1.20      1.20                      1.20      1.20
ITAFF TRAINING CODORDINATOR                                                 4                 4                  09 0f.9                             5.04                  3.14
4TAFF.L DA                                                                  4                 4                  0.60                  0.60          6.77                  6.77
STAFF4ORADE IV                                                              4                 4                  0.52                  0.52          4.03                  4.05
CONTENOENCY                                                                 4                 4                  0.20                  0.20          1.60                  2 .60
UMARY lOOKS                                                                 4                 4                              0.80      0.80                      1.10      1.12
NEWSPAPERS                                                                  4                 4                  0.04                  0.04          0.36                  0.36
FU.NrrIJE INCLUDINO NOOK CAE                                                4                 4                              0.60      0.60                      1.20      1.20
TYPEWRIrER                                                                  4                                                0.40      0 0.40                    0.40      0.60
SCHOOL CLUSTER TEACHER                                                      5                 60                 1.20                  1.20         91.40                 91.40
CONTENOENCYFOR CHOOLCLUSTER                                                 3                 60                 0.25                  0.25         12.20                 12.20
URAPRY mODlS FOR SCHOOL CLUSE                                               5       |         60                             0.30      0.50                      9.20      9.20
FURNITU'EFOR SCHOOLCLUTrER                                                  5                 60                             2.40      2.40                     28.e0     2t.80
OPENINO OF N C C E.                                                         3                 170                            0.14      0.14                     42.30     42.26
OPENINO OF E C C E. FURHITURE                                               5                 170                            3.00      3.00                    100.00    100.00
CONTENGENCY                                                                 5                 170                0.01                  0.01          1.19                  1.19
DIEr LEVEL                                                                  I                  I                             0.50      0.50                      0.50      0.50
PROVISION OF TEACHIN & LEARNING MATERIAL- PFE                              1946              2500                            9.73      9.73                     20.70     20.73
sEMINAR&flEETInNs .FE                                                       20               low0                            1.00      1.00                    223.00    225.00
POSTER CAMPAIGN                                                            200               _00                             1.00      1.00                     19.00     19.00
PAMPIHiETS                                                                 100              It000                            0.20      0.20                     36.00     36.00
DIET VEHICLE                                                           I VEHICLES         I VEHICLE                          3.00      3.00                      3.00      3.00
DIET VEHICLE                                                        I VEHICLES FOR 4 I VEHICLE  FOR 4                        3.00      3.00                      3.00      3.00
BOCS              BECS
PROVMO  FOR EXRISMNG SCHOOL *S lINEN- PER SCHOOL  R YEAR              705 SCHOOLS        783 SCHOOLS                        15.70     25.70                    1.0    109.90
Total Improving Retentlon           s 0.371    53.5t|   61.95-  1     150.96 ]   1,01880 21,169.65
IMPROVING ACCESS
130 SCHOOLS (I50, 
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW SCHOOLI                                            5 SCHOOLS       1302 SCHOOLS PER                      6.75      6.75                    292.50    292.50
WORLD BANK                                                _
TOIULT5                                                                42 TOILETS        450 TOILETS                         6.72      6.72                     72.00     72.00
SCHOOL CLUSTER                                                         5 CLUSTER         60 CLUSTER                          7.31      7.3                     147 60    147.60
BR C CONrUCnoN                                                           4 BRC.             4 BRCS                          240       20.40                     34.00     34.00
PEOIECT MANAGEAENT SALARY                                                   I                  1                 0.40                  0.40          2.80                  2.80
Total opmsving Aca.              0.40       41.25T    41.63 |       2.80 |      46.10   154t.90
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total Improving Leaming Achiovenent              1I                         ll       1l l] II
Total Cost          I.77       94.J]3   103.60        233.66    1,564.90   1,720.55
YRI.M0 5I.XU



- 210 -
STATE: Haryana                                                                                                                                                       Annx 12
DISTRICT: State Proposal                                                                                                                                                Page 6
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activides Commencing in the LIt Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHFs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 94-9S COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
1J FISCAL YR.       PRW^CT          RECRIa       rI-RC       TCITAL    RECWRN    N4-RCUR    TTA.L
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT AT STATE SALARY                             24 POSTS           24 POSTS              2 50                  2.50         92.04                 92 04
2 TYPEWRrIER. I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AT STATE LEVEL TYPEwRITER                                        COMPUTR.I                            4.25      4 23                      4 20      4 25
PHOTOCOPIER
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATiON AT STATE LEVEL VEHICLE                                            I CAR, I JEEP                       3.00      3.00                      6.00      6.G0
IRENT PROJ IMP STATE BUILDING RENT                                                                               5.40     3-40                      48.60                 48460
PROI IMP STATE OFFICE ExPENSE INCLUDING TELEYHONE                                                                3.50                  3.30         29.00                 29 50
DEVEP OF TR MATERIAL FOR VEC                                                                                                 4.50      4350                      450       4350
EMIS FURNOSHIN                                                                                                               0.95      0.95                      0. 90     0.95
EMU EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                9.83      9.93 E                    9.0       9.13
EPAlS TRAINING MATERIAL                                                                                                      2.0D      2.00                      2.00      2.0D
EMIS S SALARIES                                                                                                  1.9                   1.96         23.98                 23.9f
EMIS - DATA rRANSMISSION. TELEPHONE. CONSUMABLES. CONTINGENCY. PR                                                3.60                  3.60         23.20                 25.20
EMIS CONSULTANCY                                                                                                             0.50      0.50                      3350      3.50
_                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          ~          ~~~(33.S/ l   
SCERT DEVELPOMENT OF TRAINING MATERIAL                              MINISTRY GUIDE                                           2.72      2.72                     21.90     21 91
SCERT TRAINING OF TRAINErs OF MASTER TRAINERS                                                                                0.43      0.43                      3..0      3 01
SCERT SALARIES                                                                                                   1.11                  1.11        1.73                  18.75
SCERT BOOKS                                                        .                                                         0.20      0.20                      1.40      1.40
SCERT EQUIYMENT                                                                                                              2.20      2.20                      2.2D      2 20
SIEMT SALARIES                                                                                                  13.23                 13.23        105.79                103 79
SIE_t CWIL WORS                                                                                                             16.00     1650                     16D.O0    160.00
BIEMT FURNITURE                                                                                                              1.00      LO5                      12.50     12.0
SIEMT EQUIPMENT TV VCR.WATER COOLER. TELEPHDNE                                                                               L.IX      I o0                     10.50 o    0.o
SIEMT VEHICLE                                                                                                                3.00      3.00                     10.50     105.0
SIEOT UBRARY                                                                                                                 0.50      0.50                      6         95 6.00
SIE2T WORKsHOP, STAFF DEVP TRAINING                                                                                          4.61      4.61                     753.0     75.35
SIEMT4 BOORW                                                                                                                 0.50      0.50                      a05       0.0a
(RENTI sIEMT BUILOING RENT                                                                                       S. o                  1. 0          9500                  9.00
SIEMT CONSUMABLES(DIESEL.PErROL ETC )                                                                            0.25                  0.25          6 75                  675
SlEMT OPERATION & MAINTENENCE                                                                                    0.50                  0.50         13.00                  13.00
SIENT CONSUMABLES. OFFICE EX P                                                                                   LOD                  10o          21.00                 21.00
EC AT SCERT SALARIES                                                                       2 POSTS               0.72                    72          9.36                  9.36
EC AT SCERT . FURNITURE & CONTINGENCY                                                                            0.07                  0 07          0.37                  0.37
NPECELLATSTATE FURNITURE                                                                                                     0.20      0.20                      0.20      0.20
NrE CEEL AT STATE OFFICE EXPENSE                                                                                0o10                   o             0.70                  0.70
PROMOTNG GIRLS EDUCAION a WOMEN ENPOWERMENT WORKSHOPS.PIRNTING                                                              21.34     21 34                     50.90     50.86
DEVELOPING MLL BASED CURRICULAM a TEXT BOOK WORKSHOPS                                                                                                           1 SEMINAR  4540  440  1.60  15.53
TEXT BOOK DEVELOPMENT SALARY                                                                                     2.6                   2.6          4.26                  6a.26
Total Ca 3t.41 |                3.3 |121.34          3  00       407 90 I  9590 1
YRI4HARY xLs



- 211 -
STATE: Haryana                                                                                                                                                       Annex 12
DISTRICT: Hisar                                                                                                                                                          Page 7
DPEP - Initial District lmplementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing In the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 4  COST                  TOTAL PROJECT COST
1I FICAL YR.        F(LT           NRC NRR            C IN r    TOTAL    iRCUGPI  NPIIONUCCs   TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
BuILDING sTATE cApcrTy MANPOWER PROGRAMMER DATA ENTRY OPERATOR              I                 113                6.30                  6.30         51.90                 51.90
SUILDiNGSTATECACrrY -EQUIPMENT&FURNITURE                                    I                  I                            11.41       1.41                    11.40     11.41
BUILDING STATE CAPACITY STAT1oNARY CONTINOENCY                              I                                    2.07                  2.07         20.43                 2D.43
*UILDIN( STATE CAPCITY OPERATION  MAINTANENCE                               I                                      I 1.5               1.33         12.65                 12.65
BUILDING STATE CAPACITY. VEHICLE                                            I                  I                             3.00      3.00                      3.00      3.00
BUIDUNG STATE CAPACITY -TRAINlNG COST                                                                                        1.45      1.45                     10.20     10Is
Total Capadty Buildig  [         9.921      i5.96]    2.781 |      114.96       24.60 [  139.541
IMPROVING RETENTION
CIVIL WORKS BRC                                                             3             I SiRSinw                         11.30     10.30                     67.10     67.10
MANrPOWREREQUIREMENT CLUSTER NEADS                                         110                110               23.20                 23.10        300.30                300.30
MANPOWER REQUIREMENT TRAINING COORDINATOR                                   II                II                 2.31                  2.31         30.03                 30.03
MANPOWER REEUIEMENT CLERK AT BRC                                            I        I        I         1        I.65                  1.63         21.45                 21.45
MANPOWERREQUIREMENT ATnENDENTAT RC                                          I        I        I                  2.32                  2.32         17.16                 17.16
MANPOWER REOUIREMENT ADOmONAL LECT IN DIET                                  7                 7                  2.34                  2.34         30.42                 30.42
FURNMTURC*EOUIPMENT ATCLUSTERLEVEL&FDRSURSEQUENTYEARS                      110                110                           11.0I     11.00                     11.00     11.00
FUINTTURE .EC                                                               3                 II                             0.90      0.90                      3.30      3.30
EOUIPMENT AT BRC LEVEL                                                      3                 1                              0 o.70    0.70                      1.10      1.10
REROORAPHY MACHINE AT DIET LEVEL                                            I                                                o 0.73    0.75                      0.30      0.75
SOFTWARE ANNUALLY AT DIET LEVEL                                             I              7 YEARS                           0.20      0.20                      1.40      L40
AT DIET LEVEL - onrER EOuIr.ENTS                                            I                 I                              2.26      2.26                      2.30      2.26
_OO  SAT CLUTS  LEVEL                                                _ 110                                                 11.00      1.00                     11.00     IL.OD
BOOS AT FRC LEVEL                                                           3                 I                              0.60      0.60                      2.20      2.2D
AT CLUSE LEVEL - CONTIGENCEYMSTATONARY&ONtSUMARLE mrEMS                    110                 0                 1.32                  1.32          7.92                  7.92
AT LEVEL - CONTOENCYeSTATIoNABYOCONSUMARLEITU                               I                                    0.22                  0.22          1.34                  L.34
FORSCHOOLS - CORnGENCYSTATIONAREYOUM,ARLErEiS                             3479               3919 l7.39                               l7.39        132.36                132.56
FREE OOKS FOR SC & AuL GIRLS                                              137020            137020                          34.26     34.26                    324.90    324.3U
nWNING OF MASTER TRAINER                                                   44                 44                             0.44      0.44                      4.90      4.U
Total Improving Rtention           50 65        0.41 |   131.06 |     541.3U      430.00    971.23
IMPROVING ACCESS
MOIJLAJATIONAWAKENING &TRAINNcGOFVEC                                302              1s63                                   32.53 3   32.33  I                 176.20    176.2|
Total Improving A  m                        32.ss |   32 .3   |                176.201  176.2s
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
INNOVATIVEPROJECT-TAKINGSCHOOLTODOORSTEr STATIONARY                                             0                            0.20        2                       3.30      3.30
CONTINGENCY EXISTING SCHOOLSO RS U.YrJ SCHOOL. YEAR            |      300 SCHOOLS       0 SooCHoLs                          100010.00                           7         70.00
|MDlT -VEHICU                                                            I  VEHICLE   T    I EHL        1             T           |     30   ||                   3.0|       .D|
SE  VEL  L vfBlcu                                                  | I VEHICLE fOR 3 | 4 VEHI          11 | |        |       3.00 |    3.00 I VEHICLEFOR 3 4 VEH0
Total Inprovbg Learning AdShPIIBe        [ jj                    |   1620||                     U30|          U30
Tot  Cnt |         60.371    145.02   6205.9         636.36 |    719.101 1.3753341
YR14&XLII



- 212 -
STATE: Haryana                                                                                                                                                Annex 12
DISTRICT: Jind                                                                                                                                                   Page 8
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE Jl
Showing District Activities Commencing In the 1st Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                     PHYSICAL TARGET                  FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST             TOTAL PROJECT COST
1. FsCAL YR.        RO,1CT        REsCtN   NWRECUR    TJTAL    ECURRIG  NUNLUR    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
ISTENOTHENINO DIET 3 LECTURERS. I PROJECT FELLOWSHIP                 4 POSTS         4 POSTS PER                                 1           14,o4                14 04
PROJECT YEAR
fTEENGTHENINo DIET CONTINGENCY                                                                              0.04                 0.04         2 62                 2 62
4 PERSONS FOR
DIET TRENOTHENINO TRLAININ OF MASTER TLAINIERS FROMRCS            4 PERSONS FOR   EACH BRCS FOR 0S24                             o                           70     1 68
EACH BRCS         PROJECT024                                 04I70                             I6
DURATION
DIET S ENoTHIENINo -OOS FOR UBRARYS                                                                                   0o 10      o10                      0 70     0 70
DIETR ENOTHENING E-SI   Eq1iPAENT                                                                                       L 59     I s9                     1 60      1 59
CONSTRUCTION OF NRC BUILDINO                                       3 BUILDINGS       6 BUILDINGS                       18 30    1130                     36.60     36.60
SRC UBLARY BOORS                                                      3 BRCS           6 OBRCS                         0 60      0.60                     1.20     1.20
VIC FUNITrURE                                                         3 BRCS            6 BRCS                         0 00      0.90                     1 00     1 80
BRC  CONTINGENCY FOR PERIODICAL NEWSPAPER, STATIONARY                                                       0.60                0o60          4 20                 4 20
2 POST FOR
YRC I O5TOFCOORDINATOR. I POSTOFCLASS IV                              2 POST           PROJECT              1.98                 1 98        25 74                25.74
DURATION
I POST FOR
SRTTMPIUPOFPRESCHOOLEDUCATIOINOFUNITINDIET SALARY                     I POST           PROJECT              0.36                 0.36         4.6a                 4 68
DURATION
SEMTNO( UP OF PRESCHOOL EDUCATION AT DIEt. FURNITURE                                                                   0.04      0.04                     0.20     0.22
SEMNO UP OF PRE-SCHIG EDUCAnON UNIT AT DIET - TOY                                                                      0.20      0.20                     1.40      1.40
EMIS CELL- CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                 1.60     1.60                     1 60      1.60
EMIU CELL- FURNITURE. A C INSTALLATION, NARDWARE. SOFTWARE                                                             6 66      6.66                     6.70     6.66
MILS CELL SALARIES                                                                                          0.f                  0.96        12.48                 12.48
E035 CELL TnwNINo                                                                                                       1.70     1 70                    11.80     11.80
EMLiS CELL DATA ENTRY. CONSUMABLE. CONTINGENCY TELErHONE rPlNTING                                           2.38                 2 38        1 546                 15.46
DFU - FUENITURE                                                          I                I                             2.50     2.50                     2 .o     2.50
DsPIu ELECTRONIC TYPElWITER EQUIMENT                                     I                I                            2.25      2.25                     2.20     2.25
DOU -VEHICLE                                                             I                I                            3.00      3.00                     3 00    3500
24 POSTS FOR THE
DPu . SALARY PRO) COORDINATOR.AST PROJ DIRECTOC.CLER"S.DRIVER        24 POSTS          PROJECT             13 09                13.09        77 17                77 17
DURATION.6
MONTHS I ST YR
(RENT) DPU RENT                                                          I                I                 0.24                 0.24         3.12                 3.12
DPW . CONLSUMABLS                                                        I                I                 073                  0.75         9.75                 9.75
CONTNoENCY EXISTING SCHOOL Rs 2,I SCHOOL PER YEAR                  451 SCHOOLS    451 SCHOOLS POE                       902      9.02                    63.10    63.14
7 YEARS
DIET a SIC VEHICLES                                                 2 VEHICLE         3 VEHICLE                        6.00      6.o0                     90 o      .00
Total Capacity Building        21.66      34.70     76 36 |      69.6       145.10    3144
IMPROVING RETENTION
352 VEC OVER
MASSAWAKENINOFIJNDSTOVEC WBITINOOFSLOXANS.CALANDERS FOSTER          352 TO VEC         PROJECT              8. o                 8 80        61.60                61 60
DURATION
MASS AWAKENING VEC - I DAY ORIENTAnON TnACHER8E.ADMASTER                55                55                           .5 50    53.0                      5 5.0       50
SrTNOUPOFS5SCHOOLCLUSTERS IDEKTIPFCATIONACONTINoENCY                55CLUSTERS       55CLUSTERS             5.61                 5.61           61                 5 61
S1TN urOFOCLUST R.FURNrrUIEE                                                                                             . CLUTRS  5 CLUSTERS  50 0 5 s0  5        5.30
SITINGUPOFNEWSCHNOL ADDITIONALTEACHER                              55CLUSTERS        55CLUSTn S            11.55                11 55       l9 15                153 05
52,665 BOYS &
PEER TEXTBOOS TO S BOYS A OIRLS                                    52,665 BOYS &    GIRLS FOR THE                      13.16    13.16                   12470    124.74
GIRLS           PROJECT
DURATION
431 UNIT FOR
CUBRICULARCoGCURNICULARACTIVmEs E  LEARRMATERIAL.SPORT               451 UNITS         PROJECT                          902      9.02                    63.10    63.14
DURAnON
Total Improving Retention  |     25.96 |     33.1 1    59.14       217.36     1 90.0    41|24
IMPROVING ACCESS
CONSTR UCTON OF NEW BUILDING ALONOWITH TOILET.WATERPUMP & B WALL    5 SCHOSCHO       OLS CHOOLS                 |      20.0| 2000   | |           |0III    .00 | 0il
PROVISON OF  EACHINGALEARIINO MATERIAL IN SCHOOLS                 2187 TEACHERS | 18139 TEACHERS   |0.93                         0.93
Total Improving Ace                       3093    3093                     230 70    23070|
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total Improving LearinRlg Achismente s
Tot.l Cost |      47.62 |    118.81  1 166.43      306.62     3 574.60    96L.34
YV1-J'NU XLS



- 213 -
STATE: Haryana                                                                                                                                                       Annex 12
DISTRICT: Kaithal                                                                                                                                                       Page 9
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
1 FISCAL YR.      PRIOJCrCT      RECtBRR    NONLCUR   T"TAL    ReCURRDG   NGNCIUR    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
MIS CIVIL CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                       160      1601                      160      160
MIS FUINITURE                                                                                                                103       LS oo0 L                            1oo Loo
MIS EQUEIPMENT                                                                                                               166       L 66                      170       166
MIS SALARY                                                                                                       0.96                  0.96         1248                  12.4S
2S TABEING  I0 28                     7       1.70                      1190      11.90
MSCNUALS2 3S          238          13.46                 15.46
DPIU FURNITURE                                                                            CHAIRS, 20                         2350      2.50                      2.30      2.50
ALMIRAH
DPIU EQUIPMENT                                                                                                               2 25      225                       2.20      2.25
DPIU SALARY                                                                                                     5334                   35.34       69.42                  6942
(RENT, DPIU RENT                                                                                                 0.24                  0.24          3 12                  3.12
DPIU CONSUMARLES                                                                                                 0 75                  0.75          9.75                  9.75
DPIU VEHICLE                                                                                I UNIT                           3o00      3 00                      3 00      3.00
CONTINGENCY FUND EXISTING SCHOOL O RS Z.BRn. SCHOOL YEAR              190 SCHOOLS           YEARS                            3.96      3.96                     27.70     27.72
YERS
DIET VEHICLE                                                            I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                          3 00      3.00                      3.00      3.00
MANAGEMENT VEHICLE                                                      I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                          3 00      3 00                      3.00      3.00
BRC VEUICLE COMMON POOL                                            2 VEHICLES 5 BRCS  2 VEHICLES s BRCS                      6 00                                6.00      6.00
Total Capacity Building  |       9.67 1     29.671   39.34 | |     110.23 1     63.60 [  173.86
IMPROVING RETENTION
INSERVICE TRAINING PRQQRAMMES (TEACHERSI AUGMENTASON OF DIET                                                                 2.83      2.83                     42.80     42.83
INSERVICE TRAINING PROGRAMMES CTEACHERS) SErTTNS UP OF HRC (5)                              s IBRC                          19.45     19.45                    126.20    126.17
NsERvicERAlNlNGRocRAMMs(nAcuE54ETDNuP oFscH cLusTEB                          46 CLUSrERS                        19.95     13.9                     201.00    201.02
36917 BOYS &
PROVISION OF FREE TEXTBOOKS TO SC BOYS A ALL THU GIRLS                                 GIRLS NOT YET                         9.23      9.23                     87 s0     87.50
COVERED
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION CELL AT DIET SALARY                                               I POST               0 36                  0.36          460                   4.68
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION CELL AT DIET.CONTINGENCY A FURNITURE                                                   0.02                  0 02          0 17                  0.17
EARLS CHILDHOOD EDUCATION CELL AT DIET LEARoING MATERIAL                                                                     020       0.20                      1.40      1.40
Tota Improving Retention           0.38 |     30.66 |   51.04 1        4.85 |    43 900]   463 77
IMPROVING ACCESS
OPENING OF NEW SCHOOU 38)                                              6 SCHOOLS         5g SCHOOLS                         24.00     24.00 |                  232.00    232.00
1s6 AR, 1662
ADDITIONAL CLASS ROOM. TOILETS, SATER PUMP                                              ToILEr   1                          33.30     33.30                    332.70    332.66
TOILET. 130
WATER PUMP                                                        _______
MAINTENANCE OF EXISnNG SCHOOL                                                            198 SCHOOL              3 30                  3.30         23.10                 23 10
MOBISATION  MAP FOR VEC WRITING SLOOANS,CALANDERS                                        2I7 UNITS               7 18                  7.18         30.26                 50.26
I4 MEETINGS.72
MOBIUSAnON  MAP FOR VEC TRAINING                                                          TRAINING                           3.97      3.97                     23.40     25.43
j                                             j                  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROGRAMMES||    j           j         jj                                  j
Total improving AC              10.4g       61.47     71.9          73.36 j    60.10    663.45
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
|PROVISION OF TEACHINOA LEARNING MATERIAL                                                    1942                                           [9.7 |    9.7l | j   81 001 | H0.9 6
[ CURRICVLAR A CO-CURRICULAR ACITIES FOR LEARNER ACHIEVEMENT                              1353 UNITS     L670                          6                        46.90     46.90
Total imprving Larning Achieveint                           16I       16.41 ||                    .9    127.86|
Total Cse          20.53      153.21T  178.74        8IU.44     1240.0| 1,428.9|
YRl1.T xLs



- 214 -
STATE: Haryana                                                                                                                                                   Annx 12
DISTRICT: Sirsa                                                                                                                                                    Page 10
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the lst Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT I ACTIVITY                                                       PHYSICAL TARGET                  FISCAL YR. 94-5 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
1 FISCAL YR.       PIURCT         RCURIH   N(R4.RCI        lrOAL    URCURRG  N          aN-RCSR   TO?AL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Total Capacity Building
IIPROVING RETENTION
Total Improving Retention
IMPROVING ACCESS
CONmuCTIO  OF ADDMONAL CLASS ROOMS FOR CLUSTER SCHOOLS                 20 ROl           s5 Ro-ns                         22.16     22.16                    60.90     60.94
CONTMUCTON OF ADDL CLASS ROOMS FOR EMS IscLUDIN IFURNuHINa                I                 I                             1.41      1.41                     1.40     141
CSTRULcnN OF BRCS                                                         3                 6                            11.30     11.30                    36.60     36.60
DITRICT M- MANPWER REQUlREMENTS - PROGRAMMER                              I                 I036                                    0.36         4.68                  4.a
DIlTRCT EAUS MANPOWER REOUIREMENT DATA ENTRY OPERATOR                     2                 2                 0.60                  0.60         7.30                  7.60
LOCK ESOURCE cENR    MANPOWER EQUIaREMENTS -COORDINATOR                   6                 6                 1 26                  1.26        16.38                 16.3t
BLOCK R    RCE CENTREs MAPOWER REQUIREMENTS CLERK                         6                 6                 0.90                  0.90         11.70                1L70
BOCK RESOURCE MANPOWER REQUIRAMEWNS -ATENDANT                             6                 6                 0.72                  0.72         9.36                  9.36
SCHOOLCLUSTE1SMANPOWERREQUIRFMENTS CLUSTERHEADS                           55                55                11.55                11.53       150.15                150.15
RESEAtCH & EVALUATION UNIT AT DIET MANPOWER REQ HEAD)                     I _                                 0.39                  0.39         3.07           _       .07
RUEARCH * EVALUATION UNIT AT DIET- MANPOWER RE  (LECTURERS)               3                 3                 1.01                  1.0I        14.04                 l4.04
INSERVICE TAINING FACULTY AUMENTAION (DIET) LECrURE                       2                 2                 0.72                  0.72         9.36                  9.36
PLANNIN   . A-ANM FACULTY AUGMENTATION (DIET) UPGRADING POST OF sA        I                 I                 0.15                  0.15         1.9f                  I.ff
TRAINING AT SRC LEVEL CLUSTER HEAMS                                   55 CIlsno         53 CbHm                           0.29      0.29                     2.00      2.03
RAININGATUECLEVELCLUSTER SCHOOLREA SNETIRAINING                                          2046(40)                         5.10      5.10                     5.10      5.10
TRAINING AT DIET LEVEL DtSTT FJNCTNARIES (4I1                                               3                             0.17      0.17                     0.50      0.51
TRAINING AT DIET LEVEL MASTER TRAINERS (14)                               1                 7                             0.24      0.24                     1.70      1.68
TRAJININGATEM45CELL EEO(6H)NEADTEACHERS)49IPMROJECTSTAFF                  12                72                            1.45      1.43                    10.20     10.13
SCHOOL CLUSTER - EQUIPMENT * MATERLAL                               55 dIIoI4 col     33 ss dwvR                          S.s so   535.0                    1.70      16.70
SCHOOL CLUSTERS UBRARYROOKS                                         55 wII  IH        33 ;h.,[hISS                        530       3.30                     7.20      7.15
SCHOOLCLUSTERES NEWSPAPERS &OURNALS                                 55slh1.A          33 55100 UHdT                       0.53     0.53                     3.60      I.tS
ROCK RESOURCECENTU   URARYBOOS                                          3 BRC.            6 BRCs                          0.60      0.60                     IS0      1.50
LOCCKRESOURCECENTRES. NEWSPAPE&OUNRALS                                    6                 6                             0.12      0.12                     0.t0      0.U4
RLOCKRESOURCECENTRES TYPErWrTER                                           6                 6                             0.30      0.30                     0.60      0.60
DIMSTRICTTNUTEOFEDUCAnONANDTRAINING U RARYOOK                             I                 I                             0.30      0.50                     0.t0      0.10
DISTRICT INSTTIUTE OF EDVCATON A TRAINING - MRNAL & NEWSPAPERS            I         _                                     0.02      0.02                     0._ o     0.14
DmrRSCTINSTITUTEOFUEDUCATIoNHTLAINING  REPRRooAIWIC MACHINE               I                                 _             075       0.75                     0.30      0.75
DITRICT rNrsUTE OF EDUCATON * TRAINING ELEC TYEWRTER. ETC                 I                 I                             0.01      0.01                               0.01
SCHOOL LEVEL ALMIRAH                                                     495               495                           24.75     24.75                    93.30     93.35
DISTRICT PROIECT IUtUPENTATON UYNIT. FURN IURE                            I                                 _             2.50      2.50                     2.50      2.50
DIMICTM OIECT IMUAENTATION UNIT. EQUIPMENT                                I                 I                             2.25      2.25                     2.20      2.25
DtSTRICT PROJECT IMPLMENTATION UNIT VEHICLE                               I                 I                             3.00      3.00                     3.00      3.00
(ENT) DPIU  BUILDING SENT                                                 I                                   0.24                  0.24         3 12                  3.12
DMIU OFFICE ErPENSES                                                      I                                   0.73                    75         9.73                  9.75
Ea  CELL. FUErTrURE                                                       I                 I                             0.70      0.790                    0.70      0.70
E40 CELL -AC INSTAUATION                                                  I                 I                             0.45      0.45                     0.30      0.45
3413 CELL. HARDWARE                                                       I                 1                             4.        4.15                     4.20      4.13
5MLS CELL . SOFTWARE                                                      I                 I                 0.96                  0.9t         0.9t                  0.96
MUASCELL -TELrHoEINSTALAnoN                                               I                 I                             0.00      0.06                     0.10      0.06
CGnGENIJT GRANTS DIErT LEVEL CONTIorCY FOE REPROORAPNY                    I                 I                 0.03                  0.05         0.35                  0.33
CONTINGENT GRANTS DIET LEVEL- CONTENCY PER SRC                            6                 6                 0.03                  0.03         0.21                  0.21
CONTINGENT OGANTS DIET LEVEL NEWILETTER PRODUCTIOR                        I                 6                 0.1I                  0.10         0. 70                 0.70
CONTINGENT GRANTS SCHOOL LEVEL PRERATION OF TEACHING AIDS                204t              2O4t              10.24                 10.24        97.69                 93.69
CONTnNOENT ORANT#SCHOO.L LEVEL FREE RTEXT rIS TO SC & ALL THE OIl       49778             49773                          12.4      12.43                   111.0    1 It. 17
CGTnN1ENrT GRANT EEMUS CELL - TA/DA TO STAFF                                                                  0.25                  0.25         1.75                  1 .7
CGIIINGKIT GRANn -     CELL DATA ENTRY CARGOES                                                                            0.30      0.30                     0.90      0.90
COINTGENT GRANTS EMU0 CELL -DATA TRANSUMISN                                                                   1.00                  1.00         7.00                  7.00
COrTGENTGIANTS-EAISCELL CONSUMARLES                                                                           0.70                  0.70         4.90                  4.90
CONTIGET GRANTg EMU CELL TELE.HONE SILLS                                                                      0.10                  0.10         0.70                  0.70
COHTIGENT GIANT EMIU CELL P rNTING OF RESORT                                                                  0.03                  0.03         0.21                  0.21
HI4RLARUUM TEKACHIERSFORREMEADIALCOACHINO                                112               9Z                 0.90                  0.90        43.10                 43.10
MIO3 4 GCOrMUNTrY WRMSNWOSLGANS ETC                                      323               323                            3.13      8.13                    56.90     56.91
MEIISING COM4MUNTrY HOLDING FUNCQN                                        16                16                            2.36      2.56                     7.70      7.63
DRVRI.pRIRIT Of TEACHING LEARNIN  FOR ECE COM EONENr                                                                      0.20      0.20                     1.40      1.40
DIU MANPOWER PRRUMENTS DISTT PrECT CODNATOR (D) 1)                        I                 I                 0.s1                  0.51         6.63                  6.63
DEU MANowR RHoo PROJsCT COGEDINATORIACADISMIC) (2oW)                      I                 I                 0. 39                 0.39         3.07                  5.07
DoU UIANwm 5 iRmwSAssoT ProjeCT CoORDNATok ZIDI                                                               0.36       0.36                    4.68                  4.6t
DPIU tAAPOU RWItR         SASI PROJECT DIRECTOR TRAICM3 50 -w)                              I                 0.36                  0.36         4.63                  4.68
YRI-RRS.XU.



88     2
iuE                  | -  - - -  - - - - - - -   8 |8 
-u  : u
i:;   ~         ~~~~~ R .         IE R  E         EE@2     .fia            3_
u



- 216 -
STATE: Karnataka                                                                                                                                                     Annex 12
DISTRICT: State Proposal                                                                                                                                               Page 12
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT I ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
1 .FISCAL YR.       PRUELT          RECURIG  NOG   RRCJUR    TOTAL    ECURRiG  NO4R-ECUR    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
MANAGEMENT SALARY                                                       10 POSTS           to POSTS             21.50                 21.5         129.74                129 74
MANAGEMENT - VEHICLE                                                 I CAR .2 JEEPS    I -CAR 2 JEEPS                        1.C0      8 00                     12.00     12.00
MANAGEMENT FURNITURE                                                                                                         3o00      3C00                      4.00      *.00
MANAGEMENT - EQUIPMENT                                                                                                       4.00      4.00                      5.00      5.00
MANAGEMENT STATIONERY                                                                                            2.00                  2.00         1000                  10.00
MANAGEMENT OFFICE EP                                                                                             3 00                  300          19.00                 19.00
PREPARATIN OF TRAINING MODULES                                                                                               3o00      3.00                      3.00      3o00
TRAINING OF KEY MASTER TRAINERS  DIMICT PERSONNEL                                                                            2.50      2.50                     1250      12.50
DEVELOPMENT OF MLL BASED CURRICULAM                                                                                          6.00      6o00                      6.00      6.00
EEVIEW OF TEXT BOOKS                                                                                                         6.00      6 00                      6.00      6.00
DEVELOPMENT OF TEXT OOKS. WORK OOKS. GUIDES                                                                     20oo                  2.00          2500                  28.00
PRODUCTION OF INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIAL. DTP2. LASER PRINTFRA                                                                   6.00      600                       600       6.00
PRODUCTION OF INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIAL - PRINTINo                                                                 39.00                 39.00        453.00                453.00
SETTNG UP OF CENTRAL CO-DRDINATINGH UNIT                                                                         L0I 1o00                            7.00                  7 00
REVISIO OF rMARY TEACHER TRAINING CURRlICULAM                                                                                2.00      2.00                      4.00      400
PREPARATION & PRODUCTON OF MODULES FOR DISTANT EDUCATION                                                                    32.00     32 00                     52M00     32.00
DEVELOPMENT OF TRAINING PACKAGE FOR INSERYICE TEACHERS                                                                       5.50      5.50                     12.50     12.50
TRAINING OF MASTER rTAINERS                                                                                                  1 25      1,25                     12.50     12 50
STRENGTHENINGOF DBSRTE AODITIONAL ACCOMODATION                                                                              20.00     20.00                     40.00     40.00
STRENGTHENING OF DBRT- UNARY                                                                                                15.00     15.00                     20.oo     20 oo
STRENHENING OF DESRT - DOCU4ENTATON CNTRE                                                                                   20.00     20.00                     25.00     25 00
SmENoTHENING OF DESRT - CCMIPTTR CETRE                                                                                       8.50      0.50                     17.50     17 50
STENTHENING OF DEST EVALUATION STUDIE INCLUING  ENSDER STUD                                                                  050       0.30                      3.50      3 50
STRENGTHENINO OF DUSRT PREPARATION OF MATERLALS                                                                              022       022                       0 20      0 22
STRENOTIENINO OF DESRT APrINTMENT OF PROJECT STAFF                                                               1.80                  1 80          9.00                  9 00
STRENOTHENINO OF DESRTI PREPARATIOON OF CHILDREN LIrEITARURE                                                               101.10    101.10                    505350    505 50
STRENGTHENING OF DESRT PREPARATION OF FELMS3LuR                                                                             1I 50     11 50                     17.00     17 50
RESEARCH & EVALUATION  TEAVEL, HONORARIUM. MEETNGS.                                                              100                  1.00          5.00                  5 00
RESEARCH A EVALUATION  ASSISTANCE TO CANDIDATEs FOR DOCTORAL                                                     0.50                  0.50          5 00                  5 00
RSEARCH A EVALUATION -DEVELOPING TRAININO MODELS                                                                             0.50      0.so                      5 00      5 00
RESEARCH A EVALUATION TRAINING FOR CORE TEAM                                                                                 050       0.50                      5o00      5 00
RESEARCH * EVALUAoN  TEACHER TRAINING IN EVALUATION TECHNIQUE                                                                5.00      5.00                     20 00     20.00
MO COMPUTER ROOM ELECTRIFICAnON                                                                                              0.75      0 71                      0.80      0 75
MO COMPUrER ROOM FURNrTURE                                                                                                   0 90      0.50                      0.90      0.9 0
MIS HARDWARE SOFTWARE                                                                                                        9 65      9.65                      9 70      9 65
MS PRINTINO & DISTRIBUTION                                                                                       0.80                  0o80          5.60                 560
MIS MAN POWER                                                                                                    2.16                  2.16         11.43                 11 43
MI MAN PWUER TRAINING & MATERIAL                                   I                                                         2.00      20                        5 00      5.00
MMS OPERATION OF ElAIS TELEPHONE. DATA TRANSMLSSION                                                              1.18                   .            7.78                  778
MIS CONTINGENcIES                                                  [                                             2.70                  2.70         1850                  1.0
Tot.] Co |        104 72      275.371  3000          709.45 |     75000  1.4993
YNS-K(AJN XLG



- 217 -
STATE: Karnataka                                                                                                                                                 Annex 2
DISTRICT: Belgaum                                                                                                                                                  Page 13
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT I ACTIVITY                                                       PHYSICAL TARGET                   FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST             TOTAL PROJECT COST
1 nSCAL YR.        PROJECT        RCURRL     NONRECUR    TOTAL    REURRm    NON-CUR   TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
INSERVICE TRAINING FOR BLOCK LEVEL SUPERVISORY STAFF                      48               240                            0.14      0. 4                    72 0o     72 00
TRAINING OF HEAD MASTER IN MANAGEMENT                                    600              3500                            1.80   L   80                     II 40      11 40
TRAINING OF BLOCK RESOURCE PERSON FOR IMPORTING TRAINING TO VEC            2                36                            1.80      I 80                      5.40     5.40
ESTABLISHMENT OF BLOCK RESOURCE CENTRES                                 6 BRCS           12 BRCS             26 14                 26 14       122 04                 122 04
MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE -SALARIES                                                                               17 07                 17.07        53 35                 53 35
MIS sALARIES                                                                                                 24 43                 24.43        24.43                 24.43
OPENING OF NODAL CENTRES ICLUSTERI                                   IS CLUSTERS       50 CLUSTERS                       38 05     38.03                   191 20    191 .23
VEC -COST OF TRAINING                                                     12               117                           35.34     35.34                    176.70    176.70
CONTINGENCY FUNDS FOR NEW SCHoSS2m- PER SCHOOL PER YEAR             305CHOOLS IST  95NEWSCHOOLS                           0.60      0.60                    15.60      15.60
YEAR          IN 2ND YEAR
CONTINGENCY FUND EXISTING SCHOOL 0  RS 2E-PER SCHOOL PER YEAR       2572 SCHOOLS    2572  7 SCHOOL                       51.44     51.44                    360 10    360.08
YEARS
MANAGETENT VEHICLE                                                    I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                         3.00      3.00                      3.00     3.00
DIET. VEHIICLE                                                        I VEHICLE        I-VEHICLE                          3.00      3.00                      3.00     3.00
BRC VEHICLE COMMON POOL                                            2 VEHICLE FOR 6  3 VEHICLE FOR 12                      6.00      6.00                      9.0      9.00
BRC               SOC                     ___I  ___
TotIal Capackty Building  [      67 64 |    1417    20881  [    199.82 |     847.40 [ 1,047 25 1
IMPROVING RETENTION
NEWTEACHER TRAINING                                                      250               1800                           0 50       .500                     3 60     3.60
IN SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING PFE                                     Coo TEACHERS   45000 TEACHERS                        14.00     16.00                    90.00     90.00
INSERVICETRwAINING HEAD MASTER  PFE                                   MATHEAD           6000 HEAD                         2 00      2.00                     12.00    12.00
MASTERS           MASTERS
RouRCE TEACHER OF LEAD SCHOOL TRAINING                              I0 TEACHERS       7SO TEACHERS                        0.30      0 30                     1. 0      1.50
CUSTOMISATnON OF PROTO TYPE MATERIAL                                      I              5 TIMES                          1.00      1.00                      3 00     5.00
TRAINING OF TALUKA LEVEL RESURCE PERSON                              300 PERSONS   300 PERSONSTIMES                       0.90      0.90                     0.90      0.90
MASTER TRAINING OF TrAINERS                                          300 PERSONS   300 PERSONSTIMES                       0.00      0.so                     0.90      0.90
PREPARATION OF WORK BOOK                                                  4                 20                            1.10      1.10                    205.00    205.00
PREPARATION OF HAND BOOK                                                  I                 I                             1.25      1.25                              16.70
RESEARCH A EVALUATION                                                                                                     0.30      0.50                     4.00      4.00
Total Improving Retention              [      24.453    24.45 |                 339 60 T   339.60]
IMPROVING ACCESS
NEW SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION OF CLASS RODM                                30 SCHOOLS        125 SCHOOLS    i            |     49.20     4920                    205.00    205.00
ENVIRONMENT BUILDING                                                     1178         1178 VILLAOES ]                     759       389                     29.40     29.45
NON FORMAL EDtUCAoN CENTRE                                               2<0               40          |                    0 18o     o                    300.00    300.00
Total Improving Access |a 49                         81 49 | |            |    9.40    59.45
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total Improving Lerarnlg Acdjevemenl |        1 1 1 1 1 1 1                    m    ii            i     m
ToRal Cost         67.64     247.      3475     199 82 |   1,756.40 1956.30 I
YRS 6-LG XLS



- 218 -
STATE: Karnataka                                                                                                                                                     Amx I
DISTRICT: Kolar                                                                                                                                                        Page 14
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVrITY                                                       PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
Io nSCAL YR.        PRojECT         RECURRiNC NG  N REciR   TOTAL    RECURRUNG  NHNARECUR    TOTL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
MMIAOEITSTRUCTURE -SALARY                                                   I                                    7                |0   7.008        34.56                 34.56
MANAG3EMENT STRUCTURE VEHICLE                                                               .                                3.0D      3.00                      3.00      3.00
EQUIPMENT TO DGOTT OFFICE                                                                                                    2.00      2.00                      2.0       2.00
CON5ULTANICY FE,                                                                                                             0.25      0.25                      1.50       1.50
TRAVEL EXPENSES                                                                                                              I Go      1.00                      5.36      5.00
STUDY TOURS                                                                                                                  0.0       0350                      4.50      4.50
CON33NOENCY                                                                                                      0 50                  0.50          2.50                  2.50
INSERVICETRAININO. LOCILEVELSUPERVISORYSTAFF                               58                290                             0.17      0 17                      0.90      0.87
TRAINING OF HEADMASTERS IN MANAGEMENT                                      1000               000                            2.00      2.00                     10.00     10.00
TRAINING OF VEC MEASERS                                              30.000 PERSONS   2.49.375 PERSONS                      60.00     60D00                    49 830    498.75
TXAININO OF BULOCK REOURCE PERSONNEL                                        55                165                            1.65      1.65                      8.20      8.25
3 VEHICLES FOR I
ERC VEHICLES FrO  I ERC                                                                 BRC COMMON                           9.0       9.00                      9.00      9.00
POOL
DIET - VEHICLES                                                                           I VEHICLES                         3.00      3300                      3.00      3.00
471 SCHOOL
IMFROVE NEW SCHOOL FACIUTIS E                                            Y. PER SCHOOL YEAR  105SCHOOLS  YEARS FOR 102       2.10      2 10                      9.40      9.42
NEW SCHOOLS
IMPROVE EXLSTNO SCHO0L FACILRT7 RES   0- PER SCHOOL YEAR              1920 PRIMARY       1920 PRIMARY                       38.40     38 40                    268.80    261.80
SCHOOLS           SCHOOLS                                  ___
Total Caphaciy Building  [       7.530      123.07 [  13065|] |     37.06 [    824.10    Ml. R615
IMPROVING RETENTION
MROVIHNOTEACHIN0&LEARNINOMATERLAL PFE                                     4685               23807                          23.43     2343                     119.10    11907
CON5TRUCTION OF LOCK REOURCE CENTRE                                         II                II                            60.50     60.50                     603 0     60.50
APPOINTMENTOFELOCRSESOURCEPERS0NNEL                                        44                                   15 31                 15. I         75.90                 75.90
FUXNITUXE a EIUIPMENT TO BLOC RESOURCE CENrRT                              II                 I                             24 75     24.75                     24J0      24.75
TR4AININ0 PROGRAMMES- NEW TEACHERS                                    250 TEACHERS      1750 TEACHERS                        030       050                       3.50      350
TXAININO PRO3RAMME FOR INSERVICE TEACHER  PEE                        4615 TEACHERS   23809 TEACHERS                          9 37      9 37                     47 60     47.62
TRAINING PROGRAMME FOR RESOURCE TEACHERS OF LEAD SCHOOL               110 TEACHERS      550 TEACHERS                         0.22      0 22                      I.10      1.10
TRA| NING PROO_   E TRAINING OF TQ RESOURCE PERSONS                    55PERSONS         275 PERSONS                         0.16      0 16                      0R0       082
TRAINING MROoRA4ME . MASTER TRAINERS TRAINING                               55                275                            3 16      0 16                      0. 0      08 2
PRINTING OF
PREPRATION OF STUDENT WOREROOS.F PE                                                    2.50,000 BOOKS 0                      090       0.90                    378.00    378.00
RS. 10/- PER BOOK
30.000 BOOMS-
PRIRPATIONOFTEACHERSHANDBOOKS PFE                                                     RS. 201- PER BOOK                      140      140                       7.70      7.70
FOR PRINTING
Total Isnproving Retention  |      15.18      121.39T   136.57]        75.901     643.901   719.78]
IMPROVING ACCESS
OPRNINOOFNEW CHOOS CLASSROOMS                                               1s                204                           13.44     13.44                    193.0    I93.80
ONRNINOOFNERSCHOOLS APPOINThIENTOFNEWTEACHERS                               30                204               .900                   9.00        160.20                160.20
OPENINOOF NEW SCHOOLS CONnNGENCY                                          13.35               102                0.75                  0.75         13.35                 13.35
OP NINO OF PRE-MPIMARY SCHOOLS APPOINTMENT OF SCHOOL MOTHERS               40                 500               12.00                 12 00        150.00                150.00
OPWINO OF PRE-PRIMARY SCHOOU- APFOINTUENT OF AYAH                          40                500                   92       I             1.92      24.  |                24.36
OPRENINO OF PRE-PRIMARY SCHOOLS CHAIRS & TABLES                            40                30                              0 40      0 40                      5.00      5.00
OPrEIINOFPRE PRIMARY SCHOOLS CONTINGENCY                                   40                300                 0.16                  0.16          2.00                  2.00
| AWARENES CAMPAIGN                                                |       33253             33235                          1663 | 1663  1               |      83.10    13.13
Total hoproving Ace    |        23.83 |     30.47        30 |      3493550     28I.90|  63L.4R
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total Inproving LearDing Achievemnent |Z                                                 Z 1          1      ]
Total Cot|        46.59 |    274 93|  321.52|        462.51    1,749.90 | 2,212.41 |
YRIt-KOLkXSL



- 219 -
STATE: Karnataka                                                                                                                                                     Annex 12
DISTRICT: Mandya                                                                                                                                                       Page 15
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commendng in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 94-9 COST                TOTAL PROJECT COST
1. IscAL YR.        PRluECT         RECUN        awHEEC1UR    TOTAL    RECURRING  NON-RECOM    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
MANAODIENT MUCTURE AT DISTRICT LEVEL - EDUCATION OFFICER                    I                                    o 0.u4                0.4           4.20                  4.20
MANAGBEENT STRUCTURE AT DlITRIC LEVEL - PRJECT ASSISTANCES 2                                  2                  L44                   144           7.20                  7.20
MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE AT DISTRICT LEVEL - STATISTICAL sur HINTExDT           I                  I                 0.60                  0 60          3.00                  3.00
MANAGEMENT SMUCTURE AT DLSTRICT LEVEL - ACCOUNTS ASSISTANCE                 I                                    0.60                  0.60          3.00                  3.00
MANAOEMENT STSUCTUtE AT DLsTMICT LEVEL - CLERKS3I & UI DVN)                 4                  4                 9.00                  9.00          90                    9.00
MANAGEMENT STRUCRE AT DTRICT LEVEL - OROUP                                  3                  3                 0.n                   0.72          3.00                  3.00
MANAGUDENT STRUCTURE AT DLUTICT LEVEL - EOUP. OF DITM  OFFICE               I                  I                             0.45      0.45                      2.00      2.00
MANAGEMENT SRUCTURE AT DISTRICT LEVEL - CONSULTANT FEE TA A CONT                                                             1 75      175                       9.00      9.00
IN BVICETR.NINOFOR BLOCKLEVEL                                               2                  0                             0.07 7    0.07                      0.30      0.35
TRAINING OF HEAD MAsTERSL IN MANAGEMENT                                    5c0               2500                            0 62      0 62                      3 20      3.25
RAINING OF VEC MEMRERS                                                    23403             I 17000                         46 60     46.S0                    234.00    234.00
EYU                                                                                                                         10 05     1005                      24.40     24.43
NEW SCHOOLS - CONTNGENCY * Rs 2- FER SCHOOL YEAR                       l5 SCHOOLS        MD SCHOOLS                          0 30      0.30                     42.00     42.03
YEARS
EXISTING SCHOOLS. CONTINGENCY @ RS 0..  FER SCHOOL YEAR               1 L86 SCHOOLS   186 SCHOOLS FROR                      23.72     23.7                     166.00    166.04
7 YEARS
MANAGEMENT - VEHICLE                                                    I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                          3.00      3.03                      3 3.      3.00
DIET - VEHICLE                                                          I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                          3 o0      3.03                       003       .00
SC - VEHICLE. CI4VEOOHICLE FGO                                     |                   2 VEHICLE FrOR 7                      3 o0      3.00                      60        6.0
BRC               SRC
MU -I2UPI.IEP4T                                                                                                             15.00     I503       =303                    13.03
TotalCapKdty  ulking  [         L3.20|      107.76 |  L20.96J [     29.40 |    5.90    537.47
IMPROVING RETENTION
OVIDONG TEACHING AND LEARNING MATERLAL - PFE                              5552                                              27.76     27.76                    144.30    144.30
AONTYENTOF SRC COODRINATORS                           =                                       7                  2 76                  2.76         48.30                 48.30
EQUPMENT TO b R C                                                           5                 7                              5.03      30                        8.40      8.40
TRAINIINGOGRAGAMESs FORNEWTEACHERS                                         150               530                             0.30      0.30                      3.90      3.90
TRAINING PROGMMEs . FO lNSERVICE TEACNERS PFE                            2900                                               5 80      3.60                     38.70     38 72
TRAINING    RAMMSE FOE INSERVICE H M S - PFE                               750                                               1.30      1.50                      I 50      0.30
TlANING PROGRAOMES RESSOURCETEACHERS AT LEAD SCHOOLS                        OD.                                              0.20      0.20                      I 20      1.20
TRAINING PRGRAME - CUSTOMMsATION OF PROTOTYPE MATERALS                                                                       1.03 1o0.                           5 0o     53.0
TRAINING PGRAAMMEs TRAINING OF TALUE LEVEL RESOURCE PERSONS                35                175                             0.16      0. 16                     060       0.60
TRAINING PRORAMES - MASER TRAINERS TRAINING                                 33               175                             0.16      0. 16                     0.60      0.80
TRAINING PROaEAMMEs - WOMEN MOTIVAToRS TYE o DAYSI RESEARCH EVAU           40D               3300                            0.60      0.80                      6.60      6.60
TRAINIMOGHAMMES PREPARATIONOFWOREROO  _FOR STEATEACAWM                    207300            200503                           3.20      3.20                     89.60     *9.80
Total Improving Retention  [        2.76 |     45.U ]   4066   |       6030]      30660 [  356.32
IUPROVING ACCESS
APONTMENT OF NEW TEACHER                                                   30          20 (130+120) PER          9.OD                  9.03        375.00                375.00
wa
CONSTRUCTION OFNEWSCHOOLS                                              15 SCHOOLS        65 SCHOOLS                         34.50     34.30                    149.50    149.50
APPONMMENTOF WHOOL MOTHERS                                             60 MOTHERS        426 MOTHERS            is 1o  1|.00                       325.00                325.00
ArpowNIEHTOFAYAHS                                                           60                426                2.80                  2.80         52.12                 52.12
PIURCHASE OF PLAY MATERIALS                                                60                42U                             6003      6.03                     42.00     42.00
PURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT TO PRE-PRIMARY CENTRES                               60                426                             1.30      I 30                     12.00     12.03
CGNtmnRC1ON OF OR C                                                         2                  7                             11.03    11o03                     30.30     38.30
REPAISTOSCHOOLBUILDING                                                     200               500                            20.00 3   20.00                     30.00     50.00
COOCTOnN  AWARENESS CAMPAIN                                           1351 VILLAGES   1351 VILLAGES                             6.75  73                        33.80     33.7n
PURCHAE  P EQUIMENTTONEW SCHOOLS                                            15                65                             4.20 |    4.20                     1.20      18.20
DSTRRUTIN OF CONTING"ECY TO NEW SCHOOLS                                                       65                 0.78                  0.78j          .                    S.30|
Toal    proving Ac   1          30.53       63.75    114.33|       760.62      343.6   1,104.39
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total Impoving Lnig Ahvn t                                                    ll          ll
Totl Cot |         46.541    237.39    2t3.93 1      638.32 j   1,159.70 | 1,998. 16
YR4AANOX1L.



- 220 -
STATE: Karnataka                                                                                                                                                     Annex I2
DISTRICT: Raichur                                                                                                                                                      Page 16
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the 1st Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 9-95 COST                TOTAL PROJECT COST
1 FISCAL YR.       PROJECT        RECURRING  NW4-RRCtf    TOTAL    RECIRS          NOII c       TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
DBSTRICT MANAOEMENT STRUCTURE SALARY                                    l5 POSTS           IS POSTS              7.68                  7.68         3.40                  38.40
EQUIPMENTS OF DIST OFPSCER                                                                                                   2 50      2.00                      2.00      2.00
CONSULTANTS FEES                                                                                                             0.25      0.25                      1 so      1.50
TRAVELLING EXPENSE                                                                                               1.0                  1.00         3500                    Soo
CONTINOENCY                                                                                                      0.50                  0 30          2.50                  2.50
PROVIDINGH EAP TO DISTT OFFICE                                                                                               3.00      3.00                      3.00      3.OD
TRAINING PROaRAMME                                                         45                225                             0.13      0.13                      0.70      0.67
TRAINING OF HEADMASTEs                                                     500               2500                            1.00      150                       5.0D      5.50
TRAININOOFVEC MEMBERS                                                21015MEMBERS   105.075MEMBERS                         42.03     42.03                    210.20    210.15
Total Capacdty Building  [          16]       41 [   5759]          43.90 1    222.401   26822]
IMPROVING RETENTION
PROVIDING TEACHING & LEARNING MATERIAL - rFE                              3000              20000                           13.50     15.50                    100.00    100 .0
CONSTRUCTION OF BLOCK RESOURCE CETRMES                                     04                 09                            2200      22.00                     49.50     49.50
SF  IPITS4ENTM OF STAFFTO EEC                                              04                 09                 5.52                  5.52         55.20                 55.20
FURNITURE & EQUIPMET TO FRC                                                04                 09                            16.80     16.00                     29.60     29.60
TRAINING PRORAMMES FOR NEW TEACHERS                                        ISo               1250                            0.30      0.30                      2.50      2.50
TRAININO PROCRAMMES FOR INSERVICE TEACHERS PFE                            4220              24100                            0.44      8.44                     48.20     46.20
TRAINING PRCXRAMMO   FOR HEADMASTERS PFE                                   1500              6100                            2 50      2.00                     1200      12.00
TRAINING PRORMAMME FOR RESOURCE TEACHERS OF LEAD SCHOOL                    70                350                             0 14      0. 14                     0.70      0.70
CONSTRUCTION OF PROTOTYPE MATERIALS                                                                                          I 00     LOD                       550       5.50
TRAINING OF TALUK RSOURCE PERsoNS                                          45                405                             013       0.13                     0.70      0.67
MAsTER TRAINNERS TRAINING PRO(RM.LME                                       45                405                             0 14      0.14                      0.70      0.68
RESEARCH A EVALUATION STUDIES                                                                                                0.50      0.50                      4.00      4.00
FREPARAlON OF STUDENT WORKORS                                                                                                0.i0      0_.90                    01.70     41.70
PREPARIATON OF TEACHERS HANDBOOK                                                                                             0.90      0.90                     13.70     13.70
Total Improving Retention           5.52]      68.25 [   73T7 |        55.20 1    348.301   403.45
IMPROVING ACCESS
AFFOINTMENT OF NEW TEACHER                                                  30               326                 9.00                  9.00        220.00 |              220.0D
CONSrRUCTION OF NEW SCHOOLS                                        |        0                 326                           43.50      3                 T     472.70    472.70
CONSTRUCTION OF TOILETS A WATER FACILIMES                                   6                 132                            3.60      3.60                     70.D      79.20
EQUIPMENT                                                                   is               163                             4.20      4.20              }      45.60     45.64
CONTINGENCY                                                                 is               163                 0.75                  0.75          8.15                  6.15
OPENING OF NFE CETRMES                                                     200               IoDD               15.00                 15.50        750.00                750.00
ENVIRONWET BUILDING CAMPAIGN                                               280               1401                            7.0)      7.00                     353.0     35.00
Total Improving Acce |          2.73        580 | 8305  |         978.1|    632.50     1,610.69
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total Ilmproving Learning Achievnent
Total Cost |       39.45 |    174.96    24.41 |    1,079.25 |   1,203.20 | 2,262.36 4
YRiF A4C XLS



- 221 -
STATE: Kerala                                                                                                                                                                AMneX 2
DISTRICT: State Proposal                                                                                                                                                       Page 17
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT I ACTIVITY                                                            PHYSICAL TARGET                     FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST                 TOTAL PROJECT COST
1, FINLAL YR         PR(IJI:T        RECURRING   NON-RECUR    TOTAL    RECURRIM   NON-RECUR    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
CONVERSION OF SIE TO SCERT                                                                                           60 75                   60.75        480 23                 480 23
CONVERSION OF SIE TO SCERT - EQUIPMENT                                                                                            47 00      47.00                     107.00    107.00
TnXT BOOK PRODUCTlON & DISTRIBUTION - SALARY                                                                          7.40                    7.40         45 05                  45 05
TEXT BOOK PRODUCT1ON & DISTRIBUTION  EQUIPMENT                                                                                     4 00       4.00                      50 60     50.65
CUSTOMISATION OF LEARNING MATERIAL . PRINTING, REVIEW                                                                 19.20                  19.20         19 20                   19.20
CUSTOMISATION OF LEARNING MATERIAL - TRAINING DIET PERSONNEL                                                                       0 65       0.65                       0.70      0.65
DISTRICT LEVEL COMBINED PROGRAMME                                                                                                  0 56      0.56                        0.60      0 56
INORK SHOP FOR TEACHER STUDENTS FOR HAND BOOK PREPARATION                                                                         54 00      54 00                      54.00     54.00
PROJECT MANAGEMENT FURNITURE                                                                                                       2 98       2 99                       3.00      2.98
PROJECT MANAGEMENT. EQUIPMENT                                                                                                      4.10      4.10                       11.60      11.60
PRWECT MANAGEMENT .VEHICLE                                                3 VEHICLES          3 VEHICLES                           9.00       9.00                       9.00      9.00
PROJECT MANAGEMENT. OPERATION & MAINTENANCE                               3 VEHICLES          3 VEHICLES              5 00                    5.00         35.00                  35.02
PROJECT MANAGEMENT BOOKS & PERIODICALS                                                                                             0.25      0.25                        1.0       1.75
PROJECT MANAGEMENT- LOCALCONSULTANTS                                                                                              13.00      13.00                      2000      20.00
PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONTINGENCY                                                                                         I00                    1.00          7 00                   7.00
PROIECT MANAGEMENT SALARY                                                                                            17.60                   17.60        139 58                  139.58
MIS. FURNITURE                                                                                                                     1.20       1.20                       1 20       1.20
MIS EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                     11 Ss      11.5                      11 60      11 58
MIS SALARY                                                                                                            2.16                    2.16         IS 12                   15.12
MIS . TRAINING WORK SHOP & TA DA                                                                                                   2.00       2.00                       6         6 10
MIS CONSUMABLE. OFFICE EXP                                                                                            4.30                    450 32.50                           32.30
TolalCost  L        1741       15052    2677311         773481       277.20  1970.53
YRI-KERAXLS



- 222 -
STATE: Kerala                                                                                                                                                        Anex 12
DISTRICT: Kasargode                                                                                                                                                    Page 18
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE tl
Showing District Activities Commencing In the 1st Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
tao nSCAL YR.     F-WECT            RECURRG   No"aCLU    TTAL    RECUERI     HON-aRCtW    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTONAL CAPACITY
DIDMICT MANAGEMENT SYOT0A                                                                  34 POSTS             14.05                 14.03        107.70                107.70
AUMUENTATIN DIET                                                                                                             5.00      5.00                     2.00      25.00
25 TABLES 50
cTMT MANAORAEuE        FUENrrRE                                                           CHALEIRAHS. 10                     1.21      1 21                     LI70       1.66
RACKS
TYPEWRITER,
DITRCT MANAOaEI4T - EQUIPMONT                                                           PHOTO COPIER.                        1.35      I 85                     4*50       4.55
TELEPHONE
DITMICT MANAUEMENT - VUCLE                                                               DIESEL JEEP                         3.00      3.00                      3.00      3.00
DITRICT MANAOEuAENT . OPERAT#IN & uAMITENANCE                                                                    1.00                  1 00          7.00                  700)
DITRICT MANAGUAENT .00  A PRIO* CALS                                                                                         010       0.10                      0.70      0.70
DISRICT MANAEuENT - LOCAL CONSULTANT & FELL HIP                                                                              0.1S      0.15                      1.10      1.05
DISRicT MANAoEMEPuET COHSUMABLE                                                                                  0.30                  0.30          2.10                  2.10
mis FUrrvITUE                                                                                                                070       0.70                      0.70      0.70
IS- WSUIPENT                                                                                                                 0.45      0.45                      0.50      0.45
Mu. BOUSMENT                                                                                                                 5.25      5.2                        . 520    5.25
EUTAIliS4ET OPF  RC                                                                                                          4.89      4.89                     47.70     47.66
Su- SALARIES                                                                                                     2.66                  2.66         19.40                 19.40
MU  CONSUuARLL  OTEtS                                                                                            2.35                  2.35         1765                  17.65
SHCGOOL CoPLE                                                                                                                1.00      1 00                    102.80    102.83
DOCUMENTATO  CENRE                                                                                                           0.71      871                      28 30     20.29
DIET VEHICLE                                                            I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                          3.00      3.00                      3.00      3.00
CONTInHGENCY FUND5 FOK EXITINaO SCIHOOL  5 RE0 SCHOOL YEAR             249 SCHOOL                                            4.0 4ES  *M   *.98                 34.90     34.U6
249 SCOOL     7YEARS
RC VEHICLE                                                              I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                          3.00      3.00                      3.00      3.00
Total Capaty Building           20.36 1     43.29 1   63.63 1| |   13.85 1    262.10 |4*15.13
IMPROVING RETENTION
REPLACEPTOFATcHA EwRJLoNG                                              1200PUPILS        12000PUPILS                        36.00      6                       372.00        0
cOHsTRUcT1ON OF REPERATION WALLS                                       40t00 PUPILS      80[G PUPILS                         2.16      2.16   [7.20[                        7
TAUHMENT OF FREEE UsAtY IN UNOuTC mINORITY                            400 TEACHERS      400 TEACHERS                         6.00      6.00   [f7i927 9
Total Imprving Retetimn                 I |    44 16 |       644 16               387 10    3817121
IMPROVING ACCESS
TOILETS. 5
CONSTRUCTIONS OGF PE SCHOOLS                                                              DRINKINO                          10.05     1005                      60.40     60.40
ESTABLUSHMENT
CHG.
ARTINO O F"FE CENTIS-rPREPARATOND   SUPPLY OF MATERIAL                150 CHILDREN      2000 CHILDREN                        0.48      0480                     21.40     21.43
C064UNTry MOU1USATIOI4-CYR4UI.INTY [RTEuACTION                           WHOLE             WHO22LE                                                                        2.7
POPULATION        POPULATION                          11.00     JIM                      22.70     n.7o
ROVIDaNO DaJNlNO WATER                                                 500 PUPILS        30[00 PUPILS                        0.10      0.10                      8 30      8.31
TEACHER TANINGH) WE                                                   738 TEACHERS    0600 TEACHERS                          2.05      2 0                      34.80     34.76
SUPPLY OF FURNIUE A TEACHIO LHARNNO MATERIAL                                             133680 PUPILS                      280.05    2.05                     126.80      126.5
Total Improving ACCmts                      51.73 | S S73 |                    274.40 |  274.43
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total ImproYing Lining Adieveent   l               ll                            m     i     m      i     m
Total Ca           20.36 |I1391]            19.54   |    153.85 1    923.60 1 1,077.42 



- 223 -
STATE: Kerala                                                                                                                                                        Annex 12
DISTRICT: Malappuram,                                                                                                                                                  Page 19
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the 1st Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT I ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
Il FISCAL YR.       PROJECT         RECURRING  NONRECVBR   TOTAL    RECURRING  NON-RCaU    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
D PIU SALARY                                                                               34 POSTS             14 06                  406          07 7                 107.71
so TABLES., I
DnL  'FURNTITURE                                                                          CHAIRSI10                          1 66      1.66                      1.70      1.66
ALMIRAHS. IS
RACKS.25 BENCH
2 TYPE WRITE, I
DPU - EQUIPMENT                                                                        PHOTO COPIER. I                       1.5      1.85                      4.50      4.55
TELEPHONE
DPU . VEHICLE                                                                              IEEL                              3.00      3.00                      3.0D      3.00
JEEP
DPTU VEHICLE OPERATION & MAINT                                                        I DIESEL CLOSED            I 0*                  1.0I          7 _ 0                 7.00
JEEP
DSP U  lOOKS & PERIODICALS                                                            I -  DIESEL CLOSED                     o IS      0.10                      0.70      0.70
DOU LOCAL CONSULTANT                                                                                                         0 13      0.15                      1.10      1.05
DPIU CONSUMABLE                                                                                                  0.30                  0.30          2.10                  2.10
MIS FURNITURE                                                                                                                0 70      0.70                      0.70      0.70
MIS .EQUIPMAENT, AC, HARDWARE,SOFTWARE                                                                                       5 70      5.70                      5.70      5.70
MIS SALARIES                                                                                                     0 96                  0.96          7.20                  7.20
MIS TRAINING WORKSHOP, TA DA                                                                                                 1.70      1.70                     12.20     12.20
MIS -CONSUMABLE, OFFICE EXP                                                                                      2.15                  2.15         17.65                 17.65
MIS -VEHICLE                                                                                                                 3.00      3.00                      3.00      3.06
28006 SCHOOL S Or                     5.0       5.0320                                  1
CONTINGENCY FUND FOR EXIMNO SCHOOL 0 RS 2.,U SCHOOL YEAR              2800 SCHOOL          76.06 56.06                                                         392.06    3030o
Total Capaciy Building  |       l8 47 1     73J61   92.33          141.66 [    424.60    566 22
IMPROVING RETENTION
15X300 TRAINING
INSERVICE TEACHER TRAININ 0 PFE                                                         FOR TEACHER.                         0.80      0.80                    113.50    183.49
3X2 R.P TRAINING
PURCHASE OF FURNITURE BOOKrS LAD EQUIP FORTEACHERS PFE                                 18268 TEACHERS                       91.33     91.33                    639.30    639.20
CHILDREN S QUATERLY MAGAZINES                                                           20000X3 YEARS                        9.63      9.63                     57.80     57.78
TEACHER S IOURNALS. PFE                                                                  1500X2 YEARS                        1.01      1.01                      6.70      6.66
Total ImproAing Retention                     10 |  12.77 [  102.77 |       [    U7 30J 1U7.21|
IMPROVING ACCESS
OPENING Of PRE PRIMARY SCHOOL - TRAINING                                                   60 UNITS                          5.10      S.10                     10.20     IS 20
OPENING BRC. CIVIL WORKS                                                                      Is                            69.00     69.00                     69.00     69.00
LEADSCHOOL FURNrrURE                                                                          145                           14.50     1450|                     14.50     14.50
LEAD SCHCOL CONTINGENCY                                                                       145                3.80                 5s06          40.60                 40.60
LEAD SCHOOL PERIODICALS                                                                       145                            2.90      2.90                     20.30     20.30
LEAD SCHOOL CONTiNGENCY FOR EQP                                                               145               14 50                 14.50  1|4.0                        14.50
Total Improving Access          20.30       91'.0    111.0          55 3310    114.00|  169.10
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total Improving Learning Achievement
Total CoSt         3.77|    268 13    306.90  [|      96.76 |    425.90   1,622.53



- 224 -
STATE: KeralaAne 12
DISTRICT: Wayanad                                                                                                                                                                    Page 20
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the 1st Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKEs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVFTY                                                               PHYSICAL TARGrT                       FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST                 TOTAL MOJECT COS6r
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
- -F                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~                 ~            ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~0 70  0 70  0.70  0.70
36W        360                        3 60       5.40
0350                    030o           3 40                    3.40
0 96                    096            7 20                    7.20
T1.1.1- T. D.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 315               61 6532.20                            12.20
T4000093433   Y33348E0tf33E.-0103C.**33                                                                               2235                    2 35          17 63                   1743
3              47  ~    043        0 43                        9.96       06.1
3 BRCS                030                     0 30            2.301                  2.10
3 BRCS                    ~~~0 36    03 3696 W                               3102
9-                                                               3 BRCS                              ~~~~~~~~~                 ~           ~~~~~~~~~~0 45  0 41  0 96  0.9
SOC. E323133P343000 A ErrCrO3flC*0003                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~3 aRCS.                  0 43       0 43                        3 30       320
SOC - 03'.03030C0 P4.000133 SALARY                                       30~~~~~~~~~~~I PERSONS   3 49                    3 49          33961                   33.04
0D03-                                                                                           32 POMA                  14 01                   1403          107 71                  107 71
VARIOUS LEVEL
90101TABES,0
0703. 31~~~~~~~~~~~33r0IIR3 ~~~~~~~~~~CHAIRS. 30                                                               I 76       I 76                        3.00       3.74
ALMIRAHS
0 TYPE WRJTER. I
0P03. 3*230P34F.01                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   ~~PhOTrO COPIER  3035  3 03  4I        4.33
TELEPHONE
DIESEL CLOSED                                                                  3OD        3.
JEEP
DIESEL CLOSED              I0                          0          70                       .
0730.0303014. PE00S13CAL4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                            0.301   0.30                           0.70    0.70
DM3. 703'933*  (13 tOA   -Y3633.AIf                                                                                                    0.33s      0.3                         3.310      3.09
0730. C343W30LF                                                                                                           0.35                    0.35           2.30                    2.10
30 SHELVES. 30
03(0 3110300330E                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       ~          ~~~~     ~~CHAIRS, 30  35 33   31    .33   3.35333
TABLES
0337.3033373.33.07                                                                                   ~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.23  3.23  7 40  7.40
-T-   -H-                                  233 SCHOOLS   ~~~~~~~2533SCHOOLS POR000                                 6                         54         54
7 YEARS
DM3'7 3300C.                                                                 I VEHICLE           I VEHICLE                             396        39                          396        39
I VEIHICLE  3       3 VEHICLE - 3                            'D       3
SOCS                BRCS
T.Wa C.P.dly BOMBS..              22.02 1      2.1.33     51 33.61 1    387.69 F      92460 f       29j
IMPROVING RETENTION
.A&3ATX.   ~ ~ RFIT-  ~~T "I.X, M-U . 9- ~230 SCHOOLS, 23                                                           5     27                                     92
CLUSTERS, IBRCS
T- 0300303.  -3*03 -AAR                                           4 3CHOOLS           4() SCHOOLS               0 30                    0, so         36.9                    34.90
00793.0 333 00003000(3 C 3173.4(337. P73                    ~~~~~~~~~2112       2382                              30.36      309so                       70 40      76.37
SPECIAL *LL3#3AOCE 033 TOAdIES .CO*4P3963003H 300CA03303  703336           33 TEACHERS                3 03                    3.43         92.40                   92.40
0473.3A3F.130*00333*33LL  03CUHRDIOORAR3O3O                                70*~~~~~~~~~2                      0.36       03S6                       33 20      33.20
(39-3   9   I3000OOKS &
179139) TOOLS A WORtK
. - AT-  -L  -.-. -X       II-  B-S.                  ~~(349,295)p BOOKS EACH, 00                                     ,5       40                          2O         20
g1396             HANDI
Total Impwnlg Re44Hio.  1             2151        17 S6      20.031 31 29.30 r          396680I  21111 0
[IMPROVING ACCESS
07043630C0H3303.-30.*300                                                          2                                                   33539 I    33.93                      232.301   212.50
3300  MM40*07013103TE.CIIR 3LAAY                                             323           125 TEACHERS               O           00n0 as                   314.D                  114 20
3*1349603* SEW 5033309...PTS4 OAL300                        ~~~           ~~~~~~~~23  23 TEACHER      0 20                    0 20          9 36                    9 30
*000*3* 9E'0 0C03A33.030133*133C0                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~23      25                   0 03                    003l           0.70                    0.70
UPS. SALARY 000R3JC03R* *nono~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                 25                  23                   3 71                   3 73          39.40                   104
-T34   00003. 03*4                                                           23 ROOMAS           396 ROOMS                            30.9       96960                      120960    IN.9
(3.0003  C33330. SALAR  33A*9  053*30253                                                                                                   3.22          22.46                   22.44
31.3343300C03A813. C096Y3343005C0                                  23                   3.01                    1.03                                   310~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L0  1so  0.
-3.331  LCM333 URRY a  oor                                                                                                              .36o      1.3 so0                                 .3
Tota  I.pro,fog A,omm              7.34 1      4091       3 6.05       173 36       37TM.96     343301
MP"ROVING LEARNING ACHI[EVEMIENT
Total IPoWI.g Lm,uiag AcbIe"amen
Tota Cool           31             .1                      -I             1~ 1117 
"343.W9330,6



- 225 -
STATE: Maharashtra                                                                                                                                                   Annex I
DISTRICT: State Proposal                                                                                                                                               Page 21
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                         PHYSICAL TARGET                   FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
1. FISCAL YR.        PRCUECT        RECURRING  NON-RsCUR    TOTAL    RECURRING  NUN-RECuR    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
DrPWsoCIETY STAFF SALARY                                                                                        11.65      -          1 65          t6 65                 S6.65
DPW SOCIETY OFFICE EXPSE                                                                                        36.00                 36 00         69 89                 69.69
DM JrOCIETY. WOREsHOP a SEMINAR                                                                                              2.00      200                      238.80    18.75
DPEr5 OCETY  CONSULTANCY CHARIOES                                                                                            3.00      300                      22.00     11.00
MiEPA - VEHICLE                                                                                                              3 00      3.00                      3.00      3.00
MiEA - DEVELPMENT OF CAMPUS                                                                                                  5.00      5.00                     96.40     96.40
MirPA SALARY                                                                                                     3.47                  3.47         63.05                 63.05
MIA- OFFICE EXPENsE                                                                                              2.50      -.30                     24.64                 24 64
MA - PROGRAMMES a RESEARCH                                                                                                   5.75      5.75                    121.50    122 35
MiiA - PUUJCATION a USRARY                                                                                                   0.75      0.75                     23.60     23.58
NON FORIMAL UNrT IN SCERT -SALARY                                                                                223                   2.23         29.29                 29.29
NON4-ORMAL UNIT IN SCERT - TRAINING A PRODUCTION OF MATERIAL                                                                 2.23      2.23                      3.50      3.50
NON4-ORMAL uNnT IN 3CERT CONTINGENT EXPiNDITURE                                                                  0 60                  0.60          4.20                  4.20
NON-ORMAL UNIT IN OCERT- EU2UIPMENT a FURNrTURE                                                                             5. 20     5.A0                      5. 0      53.0
NOW-FORMAL UNIT IN sCERT. USRARY                                                                                             4 o0      4.00                     22.00       o00
NoN-FORMAL UNIT IN SCERT - CONSULTANCY SERVICES                                                                              2 00      2.00                      9.00      9 00
PRODUCTION a CURRICULAM RESEARCH - COM PInER UPGRADE                                                                         9.20      9.10                     27 60     27.60
PRODUCTiON A CUR5ICULAM REsEARCH - PREPARATION OF Mss                                                                        8 50      8 50                     4t.50     40.30
FORDuCTION A CURRICULUM  RESEARCH- TRAINING                                                                                  13 19    23.19                     23 20      13.19
PRODUCTION A CURRICULUM RESEARCH - PRPARATION OF MIS                                                                        2 269     2t 69                     82.80     8I S5
PROUCTION   CVRRCLU  RESARCH - TRAINING PERSONNEL                                                                           2 029     20.29                     7220      7 07
DrE mS - ROoM CONSTRUInON/RENNOVAT1ON                                                                                       0 60      0 60                      0 60      0 60
DrE MIS - B0UIPMOENT - HARDWAREsOFTWALEEA&C,                                                                               14 09     24.09                     24 20     24 09
DrEr MIS - FURNITURE                                                                                                         1 20      1 20                      1 20      1 20
TRAmNDO-                                                                                                                     0.73      0.73                      3.90      3.89
MiATERIAL DEVELOPMENT A DEVELOPMENT COURSE DESIGN                                                                            4.26      4.26                      7.70      7 66
MANILA PRAROADhAN PROGRAMME                                                                                                  1.40      2.40                      1 60      I 59
6.-41 -                                                                                                          2.25                  2 25         23.28                 23 28
MM- TIRNINO                                                                                                                  1.35      1 35                      9 40      9.45
MM - OFFICE EXPENSE, DATA TRANSMISSION. PRINTINa,                                                                3.75                  3 75         32 25                 32 25
MM -COISULTANCY                                                                                                              5.00      500                      11        2 11 0
MANAOEMENT  VEHICLE                                                    2 VEHICLES        2 VEHICLES                          6.00      6 oo                      6.00      6.00
Totad  Cst|       60.35       229.03    27935        323.23       392 60 |94.63
YRI-MEAHAOLR



- 226 -
STATE: Maharashtra                                                                                                                                               Anx
DISTRICT: Aurangabad                                                                                                                                               Page 22
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIViTY                                                       PHYSICAL TARGET                   FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST              TOTAL PROJECT COST
1 FISCAL YR.        PULECT         RCURRING  NONi-RELCUR   TTAL    RECURRN   NONRECUR   TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Total Capacity Building
IMPROVING RETENTION
WaMEN EMPOWERMENT - HONORAIUM                                                                                0.30                  0.30         2 46                  2.46
WOMEN EMPOWERMENT - CONTINOENCY R HANDBOOK                                                                   o007                    . 017       0 S1                  0A.
WOMEN EMPOWERMENT SELF LEARNING KIT                                                                                      25.47     25.47                    509.00    508.96
URC FURNITURE & EQUIPMENT                                                                 8 BRC                           0.20      0.20                     4o00      4.00
DIRET APP- NTMENT OF REsOURCE FELLOW                                                                          0 60                  0.60         492                   492
DIET CONTINENCY                                                                                               0.01 0o01                         0o07                  0o07
MANAGEMENT -SLARY                                                                                              4.42                 442          40,19                40.19
MANAGEMENT CONTIGENCY FOR PROECT OFFICE                                                                        6.50                 6.50         13550                 15.50
MANAGEMENT VEHICLE                                                                                                       530        3.00                     3500      3500
MANAGEMENTr VEICLE OERATON & MAINTENANCE                                                                       0.70                 0.70          5.50                 5.50
MU  COIMAUTER EQUIPMENT                                                                                                   12.95     12.95                    46 10    46.07
TRAININO AT SCERT                                                                                                          1 56     156                       5 S0     5.51
TRAJNING AT DITRICT                                                                                                        5 62     8.62                      3 510   83513
TRAINING AT MC                                                                                                             1 26    126                      4690     46.93
TRAINING AT CLUSTER                                                                                                       390       3.90                     15850    1.54
CONTINOECNY EXISNG SCHOOL * RI 2,0XVSJCHOOL PER YEAR                                                                     37 70     37.70                    263.90    263590
DIET- VEHICLE                                                         I VVEHICLE          VEHICLE                         3 00      3.00                      3o00     3.00
Total lumproving RetentHi)   |     260 |              |  0.26 |      69 45      983o00 [ I.052*9
MIPROVING ACCESS
.I. SCHOOLS,PER
NEW SCHOOL CIVIL WORK3S                                               9 SCHOOLS        3INS7.                            32 76     52.76                    404.00    404 04
INSTEAD OF I53
SCHOOLS
MC .CrVIL WORe                                                          I BRC             S BRC                           4 U4      4.U4                     38.70    38.72
4 SCHOOL I ROOM    8  COL 
ADDMONAL ROOM - CIVIL WORKS                                                               ROOM                             440      4 40                    5.00       85.00
CONSTRUCTION COSR nN
NEW SCHOOL TEACHER APPOINMENT                                      15a SCHOOLS. 316  158 SCHOOLS 316         63 20                 63 20       711 63                711 63
TEACHERS          TEACHERS
ULPGRADEDSCHOOL TEACHER APPOINMENT PE                                 6CHOOS        290C      LS, 160         16.00                16.o0        10 16                100 16
TEACHERS          TEACHERS
NEC TEACHES AIMENT                                                                                                                                          2 16    EC. 16  3220  20  56.02  36.02
TEACHERS          TEACHERLS
cLumx FuRNrruRE                                    ~~~~~~~~209 CLUSTER. 0    209 CLUSTER, 209                         o2 o                            0o
CLUSTER   EACHERAOINMENT                                                     200CLUSTER                        .00                 48 0         5046                 5040
TEACHERS          TEACHER3S
TEACHER CONTINHENCY                                                 612 TEACHERS      61 5TEACHERS            3          206        3 20        21.42                 21.42
APPOINTI4EI4 OF ECE WORKER                                                                                    10.13                lOI13        47.26                 47.26
NOW SCHOOL EQUIPMENT                                                                                                      I IS      1 IS                    25 70     25.70
CLUSTER FURNITURE                                                    200 CLUSTER       200 CLUSTER                        10 09    10 09                    20 00     20.00
CLUSTER~COKTIS4OEHCY                                                 209 CLUSTER       200 CLUSTER            7.05                  7 05        46 20                 46.20
CLUSTER-CONT1NOENCY AT THEDtSPOSAL OF CLUSTER HEAD                   209 CLUSTER       209CLUSTER             153.5                153.5        107 45               107 45
CLUSTER.CONTINOENCY FOR TRAININGOYEC AMANILA PRARDDHAN              15355 SCHOOL-S    1535 SCHOOLS                       27.52     27532                    214390    214 95
CLUSTER TRANSPORTATION CHARGOES                                      1535 SCHOOLS      1535 SCHOOLS          0o50                   0 50         3 50                  30
Total lmnproving Access |      6752        50.50 |2402          1.64 04      75950  2,47545
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
I ~     ~         ~        ~      ~    ~     ~    ~~ I   I  I  I           1           1  
Total Improving Learning AchivneRt I                I           I         I
Total Co    |    179.92|    178 16 |  35808.|    1,753.49      1.77230  3.52594



- 227 -
STATE: Maharashtra                                                                                                                                            Annx 12
DISTRICT: Latur                                                                                                                                                 Page 23
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the lst Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                     PHYSICAL TARGET                  FISCAL YR. 94-" COST              TOTAL PROJECT COST
1 FISCAL YR.                                                 TAOJECT  RECIJRC   NPNC  TOTAL  a   NaNCii   TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
TRAININ  AT SCERT LVEL                                                                                                  1.02     1.02                     3 70     3.72
TRAINING AT DISTRICT LEVEL                                                                                              3.03     1.03                    30.20     30.24
MIS CONSmUCTON                                                                                                          7.10     7.10                     7.10     7.10
MU - HARDWARE                                                                                                           4.25     4.15                     420      4.15
MU RUNNING EXPENDnURSE                                                                                      1.70                 1.70        34.t2                34.82
B&C - CoNTINENrCY                                                  (31- 34) -2.76       5 BRC               2.76                 2.76         2.76                 2.76
DITrICT PROIECT OFFICE EXPENSE                                                                              6.50                 6.50        25G50                 2.50
ECE -TRAININ                                                                                                           I.S3      I 53                     7.20     7.20
UANAOErENT SALARY                                                                                           7.37                 7.37         1.519                51.59
MANAGEAENT  VEHICLE                                                 I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                         3.00     3.00                     3 00     3.00
MANAGEUENT VEHICLU OPERATIONS                                       I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE             0.30                 0.30         2.10                 2 10
PRR.PROO2ECT COST                                                                                          10.25                1025         10.23                 10.25
SCHOOL CONTINENCY EX? 0 U 2.C001- PER SCHOOL                      MINISTRYGUIDE                                        26.14    26.14                   183.00    182.9t
UNFS
DIET - VEHICLE                                                      I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                         3.00     3 00                     3 00     3.00
MANAOBAEUENT VEHICLE                                                 I VEHICLE        I VEHICLE                         .00      300                      3 0       3.00
C -VEHICLE  O     N POL                                            VEHICLE-S         VEHICLE -                         30       3.00                     3 00      3.00
IV EBC             EEC
Total Capity Building          2t.U1|     59.97 | t05           117.02      247.40    364.41
IMPROVING RETENTION
WOMEN EMPOWERMET FROORAE                                                                                    0.40     _           0.40         2.80                  2.30
PROVISI FOR CONnEENT OPENDXTURE FOt LEARNING MATEL                                        ACHERS                        .02     30.02                   210.10    210 [4It
SUPPLY OF SELF LEARNING WOERKBOOE                                                  2240592 STUDENTS                    2t. 12    28. 22    [t.60                   t63
ToEtal Improving Retentin         0.0        5014      3 1.54 |      2.t0 |    69.70    701.57|
IMPROVING ACCESS
NEW SCHOOLS RECRUITSENTOFTEACHERS                                    150NEW            150NEW                                   37.50       326.40                326.40
TEACHERS         TEACHERS             370370                            3240260
NEWSCHOOL-CONTINGENCY                                               50 SCHOOLS       150 SCHOOLS            0.75                 0.75         5.25                  5.25
ERC APPOINTEENT OF TEACHERS                                         TEACHES           TEACHERS              2.50                 2.50        22.30                 22.30
TEACHERS         TEACHERS
CLUSTER APPOINTMENT OF CO-ORINATOR                                 CLUSTER5 12CLUSTERS 125                 37.50                37.50       307.50                307.50
CG-ORDINATORS  CO-ORDINATORS
APOINTMENT OF FRIARY TEACHERS FOR EXISTNG SCHOOLS                  I50 TEACHERS     150 TEACHERS           37.50                37.50       326.40                326.40
NEW SCHOOL TEACHERl CONnHaENCY                                    375 TEACHERS      375 TEACHERS            2.U                  I.t  1      13 16 |               13.16
EALPAOIFs- HONORARIU                                             210t TEACHERS      i03 TEACHERS          3.24                 3.24        22.6t                 22 63 
-ALWAOI1C0NiNBENCT                                                 10tBALWADI        I0SBALWADI             0.97                 0.97         6.79                 679
ToiS Improving Acm           121.4                 121.284    2 I,0304              1,030.4/
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total Improving Learning Achievement |i LIZ i] IIII                                                Z
Total Coot       15.12 11t.11   269.23            1.150.30     96.10 |2,096.
YRI4LATn.u



- 228 -
STATE: Maharashtra                                                                                                                                                       Annex 12
DISTRICT: Nanded                                                                                                                                                           Page 24
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                          PHYSICAL TARGET                     FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST                TOTAL PROJECT COST
1 FISLAL YR         PR(OJET        RECURRING  NON-RECUR    TOTAL    RECURRING   NON-RECUR    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
TRAINING AT SCERT U,VEL                                                                                                         1 63       1 63                      5 60      5.57
TRIUNING AT DISTRICT LEVEL                                                                                                      3 85      5 85                      27 10     27o05
OPERATFGN A MAINTENANCE STAFF SALARY. VEHICLEU PETROL                                                              16 74                 16 74         69 16                  69.16
DEVELOPMENT OF EMIS                                                                                                12 95                  12 95        47 32                  47.32
EsTABULSHMENT OF RC - FURNITURES                                                                                                4 96      4 96                       5 0       4.96
ESTARUSHHMENT OF RAC CONTINGENCY                                                                                    080                   0 80           5 60                  5.60
DEVELOPMENT OF VEC                                                                                                 15 o0                 15 o0         105 oD                 105.0o
TRAINNG AT RC LEVEL                                                                                                             1 73       1.73                     11 oD     10 9
TRAINING AT CPS                                                                                                                 1 98       198                      15 90     M5.86
Total Capacity Building         T4549 [       4 I     -- 59 64 |     227 00 1     64601  291.481
IMPROVING RETENTION
DRINKIING WATER FACIluTIES FOR 50 SCHOOL FOR PIFEUNE OR tOREWELLS            50                 so                             15.0)      158 0                     15.80     15 o0
WOMEN EMPLOYMENTM PM SAMCHAUKA FOR DISTRICT LEVEL. HONORARIUM                                                       0 36                 0o36            2 52                  2.52
CONTINGENCY POR SANCHALHLA                                                                                          0 04                   0 04          0 28                  0.28
HANDBOOK FOR WOMEN ACIVmES 2 ACOVmES FROM EACH VILLAGES                                                                         0 60      0 60                       4.20      4.20
TRANING MANUAL FOR KEY PERSONS ONE PER CLUSTER COORDINATOR                                                                      0.10      0 10                      0o10       0.10
CONTINGENCY OR SELF LEARNING MATERIAL TO EVERY FRIMARY TEACHER                                                                 25 40      25.40                    159 80    159.80
DEVELOPMENT OF SCHOOL CLUSTER                                                                                      2370                   23.70         80.58                 8 58
CONTINGENCY  PFE                                                                                                   41 6                   4l 36        289 55                289 55
CONTiNGENCY  SCHOOL 0 ES RER  PFE                                                                                  44 12                 44 12        30884                  30884
MANAGEMENT VEHICLE                                                       I VEHICLE          I VEHICLE                           3 80      38 0o                      3 00      5.00
DIETr VEHICLE                                                             I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                           3 80      3 OD                       3 o0      3 80
BRC VEHICLE COMMON POOL                                                     F3RCS 2 VEHICLE FOR 8                                         6 20                       6 V L  FO   o
BRCS              HEC.S
Total Impro,ing Retention           0958 [      53 1      62     |    681 77 |      191 10|  872 87 
IMPROVING ACCESS
OPENINOOFNEWSCHOOLI109) NEWTEACHERS MINISTRYGUIDEINE3               |         SCHOOLS           SCHOOLS            16,75                  16 73       218 97                 28.S97
(23540 -6.67)   ~520 07-3501 IS)
OPENING NEW SCHOOL (139. C)ONTNGENCY TO SCHOOL                                                                      039                   0 39          823                    8 23
UPORADATIONOFSCHOOL APPOINTMENTOFTEACHER                            T1__j____32 o20                                                     132 80        9794                   979 84
U|PRADAnON OF SCHOOL CONTINGENCY TO SCHOOL                                                                          2 20                  2.20         15 40                  15 40
APS'OINTMENT OF TEACHERS TEACHER AT BRC 2                                                      _____                480                   4 80         35 61             |   35 6
TEACHER AT CLUSTER CLUSTER CO-ORDINATORI ONE AT EACH CLUSTER                                                       7    |10              71 10        527 56                 52756
Total Impro,ing Access         227 22                 227 22       1,785 61              1,785 611
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total Impro,ing Learning Achievenent |_7
Total Cost         82 29 |     67 25    449 4        2,6  4       55  70  2.949   |
091.-NAN0 XLS



- 229 -
STATE: Maharashtra                                                                                                                                               Annex 12
DISTRICT: Osmanabad                                                                                                                                                Page 25
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the lst Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                       PHYSICAL TARGET                   FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST              TOTAL PROJECT COST
1 nFSCAL YR.       PROJECT        REcURRING  N01-RECUR   TOTAL    RECtRRNG  NON-RECUR   TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
APOMTMENT Of STAFF IN DLmTRJCT LEVEL                                   16 POST           16 POSTr             6 12      -6.12                   42.8                  42.54
uJRCHWSE OF JEEP AT DTRICrTLEVEL                                         I                  I                            3.00      3.00                      300      300
DIU VEHICLE MAINTENANCE                                                                                       0 48                  0.4g         3.36                  3.36
coKYINaENCY AT CLUSTER LEVEL L.EAD SCHODLs                                                                   11 70                 11.70        39 7g                 39.7g
DEVELarMENT OF EMLS AT DlTRIC'r HEAD QUATERS                              I                  1                12 95                12.93        47 32                 47.32
DIET - VEHICLE                                                        I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                         3.00      3.00                     3 00      3 00
Rc - VEHICLE - FOR POOL                                            2 VEHICLE FOR6  2 VEHICLE FOR 6
BRC  BRC                           ~~~~~~~6.00 1 6.00                   6.00     6.00
Total Capacity Buildin    1    31 25 [     12 00     43.25        133.30      12.00    145.30
IMPROVING RETENTION
A"POINTh(EITOF ALWADITAIS                                                 40                40                2.70                  2.70         14 10                 14 10
ALSO INCLUDES
WOMEN EMrPOWQRMENT PROGRAMME APPOINTMENT OF MAHILA SANCHAUKA                           PROGRAMME              5 77                  g 77        61 39                 61 39
QUATERLY
SUPPLY OF AUDIOVIDEO CASSETE T  IET. BRC                                  7             7 CENTRES                         0.07      0.07                     0 10      0.07
Total Improving Retentlon  |      11.47 |      0.07     11.54        75.49        0.10 |   75.56
IMPROVING ACCESS
NEW SCHOOL-5TEACHERS UPORAOEDSCHOOLII. 3RC 12                    |       203           205 PERSONS           51.25 |           |    1 25 |          | 08 |6 40
APPOINTMENT OF CLUSTuEECOOEOINATOR                               |  117 PERSONS   |  117 PERSONS    [            0.                             287 g2               28 |  27 52
Total improving Acces          86.35 |                 .35       733.90                733 90
MPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
SUPPLY OF CONTINUOUS COMPRENENsrE EVALUATIoN CAR.                                                                                   3.65                    30.60     30.62
CONTEICENC PNNTEACHERSGRARNINGEAT  ERATEtITAL FtRC MLARYTSCHOL L    4#4iSCHOOLS    382795CHOOLS                           62 191.40    191.40
INS EVCY T FRAENNaCQRAMMEATEATB  DISl BRC.CLUSTEPRI   SVEL.                                                              11.13     11 3256.40 SO56236
CONINGENCY - CHOOL  E R.2- PER SCHCOL PER YEAR                                                                            19.30  19                         13510    135.10
Total Improving Learning Achievemnt [               |      56,90 |    . 5690  [ |            413.50|  413.48
Tot4R Cost       12907        68.97   I9.8 |    94269           425 60   1.36g 24
YNI OSMA ELS



- 230 -
STATE: Maharashtra                                                                                                                                                   AnZKLA2
DISTRICT: Parbhani                                                                                                                                                     Page 26
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the lst Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
1. VOSCAL YR.       rOJECT          REC'URINC NG,SN-RECt     TOTAL    RECURRING  NON-RCJI   lOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
PRWtEET OFFICE STAFF. DA FOS TOURiNO STAFF OPERLATION a MAINTEN)                                                 3.04                  3 04         25.04                 25.04
CONTrINENCY FOR MPOIECT OFFICER -OPEATTN A MAINTENANCE                                                           0.3I                  0.o0          0.70                  0 70
tEErDRtvEtl - OEAT . MArNTENANCE                                                                                 0.25                  025           1.86                  1836
PURCHASE OF IEEP FOF PROJECT OFFICER - OM. A MAINTENANCE                                                                     3 00      3 00                      3.00      3.00
PETROL A LU RICANT. MAINTENANCE OF JEEP - OrEN A MAINTENANCE                                                     0 90                  0.            3.86                  3 u6
PROECT OFFICE ErENX DrUJE OPERATON A  ATENANCE                                                                   6.00                  6 00         12.0D                 12.00
EXPENDrT1UJE FUME COMMMITEE MEETIN, SEMINAR, WOERSHO. Oft A MAIN                                                             050 0. 50                           3.30      350
30 SURECT ERPEETS. 2 PROJECT FELLOW  OEN A MAINTENANCE                            _                                          1356      156                      20.30     20.28
MANRLA SANCHANXA. COWT1NOINCY TO RANCHALIA  OPRN A MATENANC                                                      0.22                  0 22          2 62                  2 62
CONTINOENCY FOR VARSOUS ACTvmMES AT VEC LEVEL                                                                   14 91                 34           3 104 37              104.37
SUPPLy OF DMEF HAND BOOR FOR ALtL PrE4ARty TEACHERS                                                                          2.33      2.15                      2.10      2.15
Total CepEcity Building  |      25.02 1      7.21]   35223  [    3 150.45]      20.90 [179.30]
IWPROVING RETENTION
HAND  DLSPOR   MEN ACTIVmE_                                                                                                  0 64     0o64                       0.60      0.64
SUPPLY OF HANDEOOLt FOR 5352 TEACHERS                                                                                         D40      4,04                      4 oD      4.04
SPECIAL ROOK FOUS MLL FOR tU ADEI A TEACHER EDUCATORS               _                                                         o 00     o 09                      0.io      0.09
HANDE(OOS FOR RESOURCE PERSONS OF ECE AT DIFFmENT LEVEL                                                                     o00] 0o03                                      0.03
PERPORMA FOR PRIMARY TEACHERS AT THE END OF INSERVICE TRAININO                                                               006       0.06                      0.10      0.06
TRAINLNO MANUAL FoR DItTRICT A BLOCK LEVEL FOE MANILA PRADAOIIN                                                              a.o0      0.03                                0.01
Total ImpRvYilng Retention  |           i       4.83]     4. S  |_| _       |___1     o |    483]
IMPROVING ACCESS
SCHOOL ROOM CONMUCTION  NEW SCHOOL ROOMSL o2                                           50 NEW SCHOOL                        43 69    4360                      300.00    160.00
ROOMS
CONSMTUCTN OF .LOCC RESOURCE CENTRES (7)                                    4           NO. OF BRC - 7                      19.36   19 36                       33.90     338st8|
EQUIMEI nPTSOR ORC 7                                                                     7 NO OF BRC                         1340     1340                      1340       1.40
EQUIPMENT FOR SEC                                                   7 BRC PROJECTOR  7RCPROJECTOR                            3 5o      3 50                      3.50      3 50
VCR. ETC.         VCR. ETC
APYOINYMENT OFTEACHRS IN NEW SCHOOLI -72                                                                        43 20                 43. 20         034                 320.34
(I14-.8) PER    (845.8-9.2.403 PER
NEW TEACHERS FOR UPORADED 3MR PRIMARY SCHOOUS                           MINISTRY          MINISTRY             105.20                305.20        743,38                743138
GUIDEUNE          GUIDEUNE                                          I             I                     I
NEW TEACHERS FOR tRC - 2 TEACHERS PER ERC 14                                                                     4.20                  4 20        31 16 |1 1,16
NEW TEACHERS FOR CLUSTER LEVEL 24|                                                                              73.50                 73 50        545 38                545.35
(3 93.22) PER    (27.37-2) PERE
CONTINGENCY FOS TEACHERS - 313                                          MINISTRY          MINISTRY               3 69                  3 66         27 l5                 27.15
GUIDELINE         GUIDEUNE
APPOINTMENT OF E C E INTRUCTOS                                                                                   4 05                  4 05        267.83                267 31
CONTNOENCY FOE CLUSTER LEVEL FOR EQUIPMENT A WORSRHOP                                                           24 50                 24 50         8380                  83.80
CONTiNGENCY FOR AC - 7                                                                                           0.70                  0 70          490|                  4,90
CONTINGENCY FOR TEACHERS DURINO TrE PROJECT PERIOD                                                              25.00                 2504         375 30                375.00
BOOES FOt USRARY AT 7 ERC LEVEL FOR IT YEAR IN PROtECT PERIOD                                                                0 .4      0.S4                      00810     0.| 4
SCHOOLCONPtNOENCY  PEE                                                1766 SCHOOLS      1766 SCHOOLS            35.32                 33.32        247 24                247.24
EEC VEHICLES FOR COMMON POOL                                           4 BRCS-I -H7RRCS -2                                   30o00|                              6000      6.00
VEHICLE           VEHICLES
MEC VEHUCLESFOR COMMON rOOL                                            I VEHICLES         I VEHICLE                          3.003 00                            3.00      3.00
Total Imprnving Acce           319.36 |     74 78    394 1 |    2,44636 1      2  60264.9
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
STATE LEVEL TRAININO ROGloRAMES                                                        _                 F _                  .        3.31                      4.10      4.34
EDLmKT  VELE TRAININO PROOKAMMJ.4ES                                                                      f _     _|         400071    40.87                    134.40    134.42
|RC LEVEL- TAINIPNo PROGRAMMES                                                                                       |       49]       4.9S                     2 9.40 |   29.39
CLUSTER LEVEL TRAINING PROILAMMEt                                                                        F ____j    _|       4.46      4466                     25.20 |   25.22
Total ImproYlilg Leamning AchieNennent [I| |                51.42|     1 42] |i|         |     193Z10 | [ .I17
Total Cost        344.3       138 26    48264       2961         435.40  3,032.311



- 231 -
STATE: Tamil Nadu                                                                                                                                                    Anx 12
DISTRICT: State Proposal                                                                                                                                               Page 27
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT / ACTIVrrY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 94-9 COST                TOTAL PROJECT COST
1. FISCAL YR.       rROECT         RCRRINC  NON4tRCUR    TOTAL    RECURING   NN-RIICUR    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITtTIONAL CAPACITY
ESTABIJSIMENT OF M,NAGAMENT INFORMAT1ON SYSTE.M - STATE LEVEL                                                               22.24     22.24                     59.30     59.31
CONST OF BUILDINO FOR DPEP EMU PLANNIN  MO A TR & STATE PR.DR OF                                                           3030      t000                     20.30    IC0 00
STRENOTHENINO OF DIRECTORATE - EQUIPMENT                                                                                     2.00      2.00                     10.00     10.00
STRENOTHENINO OF DIRECTORATE OF TEACHES EDUCATION - FURNITURE                                                                200       230                      25.00     25.00
FOUNDATION OF 2 SEFERATE DIV FOR EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH.EVAL PL MG                                                             3.02      3 02                     73.20     73.25
STRENGTiOENINO OF TN TEXTKX2KS COORPORATION                                                                                 21. 3     21.55                    13.60    138.6t
STAFF COMPONENT MANAOEMAENT STRUCTURE STATE LEVEL                                                                6.60                  6 60         90.70                 90.70
STAFF COMPONENT MANAOEMENT STRUCTURE CONSUMABLES                                                                 9 30                  9.30         47.00                 47.00
STATE LEVBl. EOIPMENT                                                                                                        3.00      3.00                      6 00      6 00
STATE LEVEL. VEHICLE                                                                                                         6.00      6.00                      6 00      6.00
STATE LEVEL. FURNITURE                                                                                                       3.00      3.00                      7.00      7.00
STATE LEVELB BOOKS                                                                                                           130       1200                      5.300     5.00
STATE LEVEL TRAININI & TLAVELUNo ALLOWNCE                                                                                    3.00      3.00                     15.00     25.00
TRAININO PROGRAMMES FOR STATE A UISTEICT LEVEL FUNCTIONARIES                                                                5t01         60                    38.90     38.94
MANAOEMENT - VEHICL3E.FOR COMMON POOL                                                                                        3.00      1       I                 300       3.00
Total Coao         2560       2240.2    2 14042||    137.70|    487.        6U.05
YRI-TAM XIJ



- 232 -
STATE: Tamil Nadu                                                                                                                                                    AZinex 12
DISTRICT: Dharmapuri                                                                                                                                                   Page 28
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the Ist Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT I ACTIVITY                                                         PHYSICAL TARGET                   FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
II FISCAL YR.        ROJECT         RECURRING  NONRECUR    TOTAL    RECURRINC  NON-RECUR    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTFONAL CAPACITY
INSERVICE TRAINING FOR BLOCK LEVEL SUPERVISORY STAFF                       40                200                             0.03      0.00                      0.40      0.40
INMERVICE TRAININO FOR OTHER BLOCK LEVEL OFFCIALS                          90                450                             0. I8     0. I                      0.90      0.90
TRAINING FOR VILLAOE EDUCATnON COUNCIL MEMBERS FOR 2 DAYS                  5400             49500                            3.24      3 24                     29.70     29.70
TR.JNINO FOR MOTHER TEACHER COUNCIL1PTA MEMBERS                            1702              24012                           0.42      0.42                     14.40     14.40
TRAININO FOR UAHALIR MANDRAM MEMSERS                                       720               5760                            0.43      0.43                      3.40      344
PURCHASEOFEEUIPMENTTOBRCCENTRES                                                              I 8                            640       6.40                     1440      14.40
AOINTMENT OF TASK FORCE MEAERS AT DLTRICT LEVEL                             3                  i                 0.36                  036           2.28                  2.28
DWTURRCT MANAGEMENT. SALARY                                                                                      1 60                  1 60         20.50                 20350
DTRICT MANAaEMENT . FURNITURE                                                                                                 1.0o     1 00                      2.50      2350
DISURICT MANAGEMENT VEHICLE                                                 I                  I                             3.00      3 01                      3 00      30
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT .                                                                                                        0.10      o lo                      05o0      0 5o
DREuCT MANAGEMENT STATIONAEY                                                                                     0 25                  0.25          1 25                   1 25
DisTliCT MANAGEuENT TYPEWRITER                                                                                               0 12      0.12                      0 10      012
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT CONTINGENCY                                                                                  0.40                  0.40          2.00                  2.01
DInTRIcT MANAaUFJIENT VEHICLE REPAIRS                                                                            0 s0                  00 48.00                    4_        0
DIRTRICT MANAGEMENT TRAVELIUNG ALLOWANCE                                                                         0 30                  030            . 50       .5
SETISNG UP OF MI                                                                                                             12 01     12 01                    34.90     3409
DIET - VEHICLE                                                                                                               3 01      3 00                      3 0o      3 00
ORC VEHICLE FOR COMMON POOL                                          2VEHICLEFOR8  5VEHICLEFOR 18                            601       601                      1501      100
BRC               HRC
PROVISION FOER IMROVING EXISTING SCHOOL S RS    PER SCHOOL            0842 SCHOOLS   I                                      36.04     30 84                    257 90    207 
7 YEARS364                                 3682590                            278
Trotal CRpadty Building          3.71       72        76.52         31   |0 00.1         411.66
IMPROVING RETENIrION
I       ___                                                            I    I1                                                            r         l           l=
Total Improving Retention                          T                               - .|.
IMPROVING ACCESS
90 BUILDINGS (10|-
|CONSTRUCTIONOF THREEw CLASROOM BUILDING                               12 RBUILDING8S   10) BUILDING AS |||                  36.01     3601                     27001    27001 
PER WB
235 BUILDINGS
CONSTRUCTION OF TEG CLASS ROOM BUILDINGS                                    3 1         (250 -1 5) AS PER                   62 01     62 01                    470 00    470 01
WB
|DRNKING WATER FACILITIES-CVlL WORKS                                       43                o0o                             4 30      4.30                     00.01     W0 01
TGILETS CONsTRUCTION-CIVL WORKS                                            43                 goo                            6.45      6.45                    120o      1200 
CONDUCInNG SURVEY TO OPEN NSF CENTRS ONE PERON FOR ID CENTRES              200               1800                            0 20      0 20                      I 00      I W0
STRENGTHENIN OF MTC                                                        432               7296                4 32                  4 32         72 96                 72 96
CONDUCTING SOCIAL AWARENESS CAMPAIGN                                       1100              0300               II 01 |                  0|1        55 01                  00 01
Total Improving Access [        13.32      10895    1 24 27        12796       94 80   1,069 76
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
PROVIDING TEACHING LEARNING MATERIAL                                      6340              48574                              0      3                  1     240.01]   248 07
APPOINTMENT TO BEC TRAINING SUPEFVLSOR FOR 7 MONTHS                         8                 0                  2 24                  2 24         540                   54 0
APPOINTMENT TO BRC TEACHER EOUCATaR FOR ? MONTHS                           24                 324                S 40                  8 40         44 4                 144 48
TRLAINING COST OF SRC SUPERVISOR AT DIET FOR I I DAYS              |                           0                             0 40      0 040                     0 40      0 40 
TLAINING COST FOR RRC TEACH  EDucAToRs FOE II DAYS                         24                240                             0         o        I U II           I         115
Total Improving Learning Achievement           1l64         32 21     42 05  r      9 56       250040 |4098
Total Cost         2967|    21397    24364           0.          .72.30 1 .9504
YR? .0D1AR ILS



- 233 -
STATE: Tamil Nadu                                                                                                                                                    Annex 1
DISTRICT: South Arcot                                                                                                                                                  Page 29
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the 1st Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT I ACTIVITY                                                        PHYSICAL TARGET                    FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
Ia FISCAL YR.       PIROJECT        RECURRING  NUN-RECUR   TOTAL    RECURRING  NUN-RECUR   TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
INSERVICETR_NI-NG FORBLOCK LEVELSUPERVISORYSTAFF                           82                410                             0 16      0 16                      080       080
INSERSICETRANIING FOR OTHER BLOK LEVEL OFFiCERS                            IRO               980                             025       0.25                      1 20      1 25
TRAINING FOR S ILLA.E EDLUCATION COUNCIL MEMBERS                            5o               2250                            0.90      0.90                     40 00     40 05
TRAINING FOR MTA PTA MEMBERS                                               72                966                            L30       1.30                     17.40     17.40
EQUIPMENT TOBRCENTREs10                                                                    36 RCs                            8.00      8.80                     2880      28.80
APPOINTMENT OF TASK FORCE MEMBERS                                           3                 21                 0 48                  0.48          3.36                  3.36
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT SALARY                                                  0                 8                  1 60                  1 60         20 50                 20.50
DiSTRICTMANAGEMENT FURNITURE                                                0                 8                               00          00                     2.50      2.50
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT S EHICLE                                                0                 8                              3 00      3 00                      3 00      3 00
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT BOOKS                                                   0                 8                              0 10      0 10                      0 30      0 50
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT CONSUMABLES                                             0                 8                  0 25                  0 25          1 25                  1 25
DISTRICTMANAGEMENT TYPEWRITER                                               0                 8                              0 12      0 12                      0.10      0 12
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT CONTINGENCY                                             0                 8                  0 40                  0 40          2.00                  2.00
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT  'EHICILE MAINTENANCE & REPAIR                          0                 8                   o 80                 0 80          4.00                  4.00
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT OFFICE EXPENSE                                          0                 8                  0.30                  0 30          1 50                  1 50
2738 PRIMARY
PROVISFON FOR EXISTING SCHOOLS o Rs W[G- PMR SCHOOL PER YEAR          2738 PRIMARY    SCHOOLS FOR?                          54 76     54 76                    383 30    383.32
SCHOOLS        SCOLFR7
YEARS
BRC VEHICLE                                       ~~~~~~~~~~2 VEHICLE FOR 10 9 VEHICLE FOR 36               60          0                       70        7O
BRC- VEHICLE                                                               BR0RC600                                                    6.80                     270oo     27.00
6RC               BRC
DIET VEHICI-E                                                           I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                          380       380                       3.00      3.00
Total Capacity Building  |       3 831      78 59 T      82 42a |   32 61      507 60    340 35
IMPROVING RETENTION
_   =                                      I                 I               11                           1         iIT                                1
Total Improving Retention
IMPROVING ACCESS
CDNSTRUCTION OF THREE CLASS ROOM BUILDING                                   4         RUIDLIN  PER0W                        12        12.00                    258.80    258.00
200 BUILDING (280-
CONSTRUCTION OF TWO CLASS ROOM BUILDING                                    32            80) BUILDING                       64 00     64 00                    400 00    400 0
ASPER WB
DRINKING WATER FACIULTIES                                                   36               386                             3 60      30                       38 60     38 60
TOILET FCILITIES                                                          36                306                             5 40      5 40                      7.90     57.90
COND-CING SOCIAL AWARENESS CAMPAGN                                   500 G'IUSIRR RB  51300 'I..,US illRS        I 0oo .8o                          2000                  20.00
Total Improving Accss            5 o01      83801    9080 | [       20.00      754 500   7745o|
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
PROVIDING TEACHING LEARNING MATERIALS                                 12816 TRRh.S.|  67080 TR-hR       ||                  64080    6408                      33540    33540
APPOINTMENT TO BRC TRAINING SUPERNISORS                                    18                216                 5 04                  5 04        108 72                108 72
APPOINTMENT OF BRC TEACHER EDUCATORs                               |        4                648         [      13 23                 13 23        285 39                285 39
TRAINING COST OF BRC SUPERVISORS AND TEACHER EDUeATORS                      54               648                             0 35      0 35                      3 10      3 15
Totl Improving Learning Achievement             1827        6443      82470  |    394,,1       3385      372661
Total Cost |      27 ID       22802    253 l2        446 72     1,0004  2,0473
Y55-ROUT XLR



- 234 -
STATE: Tamil Nadu                                                                                                                                                    Annex 12
DISTRICT: Thiruvannamalai                                                                                                                                              Page 30
DPEP - Initial District Implementation Plan
Source: DPEP - MONITORING MODULE #1
Showing District Activities Commencing in the 1st Year Only
(ALL COSTS IN Rs. LAKHs)
COMPONENT I ACTIVITY                                                         PHYSICAL TARGET                   FISCAL YR. 94-95 COST               TOTAL PROJECT COST
1- FISCAL YR.        'CUCFAT        RECURRING  NON-RECUR    iITAl,   RECURRING    NRecUR    TOTAL
BUILD INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
SUPERVISORY PLANS FOR AoS& D5AMICELLANEOUS EXPENSES                         43               215                 OIl                   oi            0.55                  0.55
TRAINING PLAN FOR OTHER DEPART OFFICERS AT iRCC  MIC EXPENSES               85               425                             0 17      0  7                      0 0       0.85
TRAINING PLAN FOR VILLAGE EDUCATION COMMITTE AT BRC                    50 BATCHES        500 BATCHES                         0 90      0 90                      9 00      9o00
TRANING PLAN FOR PTAWTC MEMBERS AT RC (PER BATCH)                      34 BATCHES        654 BATCHES                        0o61       0 61                      11.80     11.77
DISTRICT TASK FORCE MEMBERs APPOINTMENT                                     3                  6                 0 30                  06           31 24                 31 24
SUPPLY OF EQUIPMEiN AND FURNITURE TO BRC OFFICEm S                          7                 19                             5 60      5 60                     I5 20      15.20
MAINTENANCE cOST OF EQUIPMENTS SUPPUED W ARC                                7                 114                035                   0 35          5 70                  5 70
INNoVATnVE PROGRAMME DISALED CHILDREN PR EDUCATION ONLY 2 YEAR            1449              1449                           2547      25 47                     50 90     5080
IMPROVEMENT OF EXISTING SCHOoLs 0 Rs SR PER SCH-OL PER YEAR            1716 SCHOOL       2023432                                      34 32                    24020    2402
YEARS343                                  34324  0                           204
DIET VEHICLE                                                            I VEHICLE         I VEHICLE                         3500       3o00                      3.00      3.00
B^C VEHICLE                                                        R2 VEHICLES FOR  5 VEHICLES FOR I                         6 oo      6 oo                      15 00     15 oo
BREC              BEC
MANAGEMENT VEHICLE                                                      I VEHICLE         I VEH1ICLES                        3 00      3 00                      3 00      3 00
MIS- SETUP                                                                                                                   12 00     i2 00                    34890     34.89
DISTICT MANAGEMENT SALARY                                                                                        1460                  160          20 50                 20 50
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT FURNITURE                                                                                                 I        lo Ioo                    2 50      2 50
OIrTSUCT MANAGEMENT . BOOS                                                                                                   010       S X                       0 50      0o50
DITRICT MANAGEMENT. STAToNARY                                                                                    0 25                  025           1 25                  125
DISTRICT uMANAGEMENT TYPEWnRITER                                                                                             0 12      0 12                      0 to      01 2
DISTRICRT MANAGEMEFNT  CONTINGENCY                                                                               0 40                  0 40          200                   2 00
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT VEHICLE MAINTENANCE A REPAIR                                                                 000                   080           40o                   4 00
DIsTRICT MANAGEMENT TlRAVELLING ALLOWANCE                                                                        030                   0I0 150                             1 50
Total Capacity Building          4 17       92 29    9646           4074       386.90    4537 
IMPROVING RETENTION
FORDEVELOPINGAIDS&PuRCHAsEOFEQUIPMENTS(PERTEACHER)                         7165              54155                          353       35 3                     270 80    270 78
APPOINTMENT OFSUPERVISORS AND TEACHER EDUCATORT 1PM I                      37                264                 9.15                  9 IS         67.02                 67 02
TRAINING OF BRC SuPERVISORs AND TEACHER EDUCATORS                           36               264                              I17      017                       1.30      1128
Total Improving Retention  l        9   |      36.o|   47              67.02 |    272 10    33908|
IMPROVING ACCESS
|107 Hoildirsg 1137-11                             X          
CONSTRUCTION Of THREE CLASS ROOM BUILDINGS                              II Bildimos    3 ...HU LDINGS AS                    3300       3 00                    321.00    321.00
PER WB
CONSTRUCTION OF TWO CLAss ROOM BUILDINGS                               28 B1ildimg   |   224 Boildinsp                      56.00     56 00                    448 00    448 00
DRINKING WATER FACILmTES                                                    39               361                             3.90      3 90                     36 10     36 10
TOILETs FACILMIES                                                          39                 361                            5 85      5 85                     54 10     54515
SOCIAL AWARENESS CAMPAIGN                                                85 C-m.    I|   3540 CRpS                           085       0 85                     35 40     35.40
Total lmproYlng Aec3L                       99 60 | 99 0 |                    84 40 |89 637
IMPROVING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Total Impro,ing Learning Achievement                                                                          1
Total Cost         13 32      227.89    241 21        1 l35 76  ,1553 60  1 167.48



- 235 -
Annex 13
Page I
lINDIA: District Prunary Education Program
International Cooperation
1.   Central to DPEP is improvement in the quality of primary education, in
management, training, pedagogy, community participation and research and
evaluation. While substantial professional expertise is available from indigenous
institutions, the Indian education system in general and DPEP in particular would be
enriched by international exchange of comparative experience.
2.   Focal Areas. The GOI has identified nine focal areas corresponding broadly to
the main themes of DPEP national technical assistance programs where comparative
experience would be valuable:
a.   Multi-grade Teaching
b.   Reading and Mathematics Teaching and Learning
c.   Education Planning and Management
d.   School Management and Effectiveness
e.    Alternative and Nonformal Education
f.    Development of Instructional Materials
g.   New Methods of Pedagogy
h.   In-service Training
i.    Educational Research and Evaluation
3.   Programs. In these areas, and in others that could be identified as needs arise,
the GOI would seek to foster two-way international exchange of experience and
expertise. Four main programs for cooperation would be undertaken:
a.   International Conferences and Seminars in India. Travel and per diem
would be provided to enable international scholars and experts to
participate in conferences and seminars organized in India by the DPEP
Bureau, cooperating research agencies, or participating state
implementation societies. A maini function of these conferences would
be to encourage sharing of comparative research experience, with the



- 236 -
Annex 13
Page 2
research carried out in preparation for startup of DPEP receiving major
attention in the first two years of the program.
b.    International Conferences arid Seminiar-s Abroadl. Travel and per diem
would be provided to enable Indian officials and experts to participate
regularly in major international conferences and semlinars relevant to the
focal areas of the program.
C.    International Training Programs and Study Tours. Project staff woluld be
sponsored to participate in short-term international training Courses. In
addition, for course found to be especially useftil, DPEP would sponsor
cooperative arrangeimients between interniational arid national institutions
to adapt trainiing programs and muaterials for delivery in India on a larger
scale. Study tours would be uLl(lertakeni in the first year of the program
to review programii iinpleieentatiori, researclh ar(i developmiient activities,
and possible training progranis in other couLntries.  Indian scholars coLIld
be supported as research fellows in cooperating organizationls. Travel,
per diem and tuition costs would be provided.
d.    Technical Cooperation in Programii Development. Individuals or teamis
of experts would be engaged to participate in DPEP-sponsored research,
developmenit and training activities in India. Travel, per cierii and fees
would be provided by DPEP.
4.    Twinning arrangenierits with agencies arid Luniversities abroad would be
considered when appropriate. These woUnld generally involve excharnge of staff for
specific purposes.
5.    Planning and Approval. The international cooperation program would be
planned annually. A committee of experts chaired by the Joint Secretary (DPEP)
would consider proposals from individuals, institutioins or DPEP state implenientation
societies. Proposals Could also originate in the DPEP Buireaui. Proposals to invite
international participant and consUltants would rnormally be considlered as part of this
annual planning process, but could be approved on an as needed basis by the PB. All
proposals would be received by AugLust of each year to be reviewed by the DPEP
committee, with PB approval by October.  IDA Guidlelines for Fellowships anid
Consultant Services would be followed.
6.    The preliminary first year work program for international cooperation is shown
in Annex 13 Table 1. This would be reviewed and placed before the Project Board
on an acceleratecd schedLule.



- 237 -
ANnnex 13
Page 3
Table 1: First Year lutemnational Cootottn Work Proarsau
Programs
Focal Area       Confereuces un ludia        Iuterntional Comtereuces   luternatioual Tnruiug      Technical
Total fellowships: 55      Total Fellowships: 70       and Study Tours            Cooperttion
Total Fellowshipa: 140    Total Person
Months: 50
Multi-grade
Teaching
Reading and                                                              Study Tour on Teaching
Mathemnatics                                                             in Early Grades
Teaching and                                                             Sponsor: To be
Learning                                                                 deternined
Destination: To be
determined
Number: 6
Education                                                                Study Tour to Assess
Planning and                                                             International Traiining
Management                                                               Programs
Destinations: France,
UK. USA,
Sponsor: DPEP Bureau
Dates:
September/October
Number: 4
School
Management
and
Effectiveness
Alteriiative and
Nonformal
Education
Development
of Instructional
Materials
New Methods
of Pedagogy
In-service                                                               Study Tour on INSET
Training                                                                 Models and Materials
Sponsor: Training
Resource Group
(NCERT)
Destination: to be
determined
Number: 4
Date: Novenmber



- 238 -
Annex 13
Page 4
Educational      First Annual DPEP           American Edutcation
Restrch etnd     Roerch Conference           Research Assciation
Evaluation       Sponsor: NCERT              Annual Conference
Daes: October, 1994        Sponsor: DPEP Bureau
Number of FeUowhips: S    Dates: to be determined
Nunber: 4



INDIA: District Primary Education Program                                                      Annex 14
Civil Works Plan                                                                 Page 1
PHYSICAL COUNT
|   (iNY7    | |  1996     1997     1998      1999      2000                                    PEMARK|
New Schools / Extensions to Existing Primary Schools (# Classrooms)
1,082   | | 1,418   1,890    2,646    2,363       1,134       10,533     Priority 1 projects to be completed by
Assam        70          221       294       412       368       176        1,540     Dec 31, 1995. Priority and timing for
Haryana       49           254       339      475       424       204        1,745      remaining sites will be based on
Karnataka       131         195       260       364       325       156        1,430     formulation of "rolling" Annual
Kerala      403           91       121       169       151       72         1,007     Facilities Work Plans.
Maharashtra       166         316       422       590       527      253         2,274
Tamil Nadu       263          341       455      637       569       273        2,537
Repairs to Existing Schools (# Schools)
I'3
|  1,105   |    932       1,243     1,740     1,554     746        7,321      In addition to count, General Fund provided for:
Assam        45          102       136       191       171       82         727         ---> minor/major repairs at unspecified sites
Haryana       20           26        35        49       44        21          196         ---> separation walls at unspecified sites
Kamataka       300          195       260       364       325       156        1,600
Kerala      630          160       214       299      267        128        1,698       ---> repairs/separation walls at unspecified sites
Maharashtra       110         449       598       837       748      359         3,100       ---> general repair work
Tamil Nadu        -            -         -         -        -         -           -
School Water & Sanitation Facilities (including installation at new school sites)
1   373    1 1 1,238  1 1,651  1 2,311  1 2,064  1  991   1 E  8,628
Assam        67          291       388       543      485       233        2,006
Haryana       20           243       324      454       405       194        1,640
Karnataka       6           317       422       591      528       253         2,118
Kerala       35           7         9        13        11        5           80
Maharashtra       50           178      237       332       297       142        1,237
Tamil Nadu       195          203       270      379       338       162        1,547
6/29/94
ANNX1 5A.XLS



INIA: Distrkct Primary Euxation Program 1                                                      Annex 14
Civil Works P1an                                                                Page 2
PHYSICAL COUNT
F       -       I  1^ 1996  1997    1996     1999                                             REMIARKS
Block Resource Centers
|    61    i | 52    38        17        -         -          134      Completion of all Block
Assam        14           9        7         3         -         -          24       Resource Centerstargeted
Haryana        4           10        7         3         -        -           25       not later than Dec 31, 1998.
Karnataka       18           13        9        4                   -          33
Kerala       16           7        5         2         -         -          18
Maharashtra       9            13       10        5         -                    34
Tamil Nadu        -            -        -         -         -        -            -
Facilities for SIEMTs
Assam       10%         30%       45%       15%        -         -
Haryana    (NONE)
Karnataka    (NONE)
Kerala   (NONE)
Maharashtra      10%          30%      45%       15%        -         -
Tanil Nadu       10%         30%       45%      15%
Facilities for DIETs or District Administration, and other facilities such as Hostels,
Cluster Centers and  Nodal Centers, Teacher Quarters, and Library Rooms
1    83    1 1  223  208       170 1  50   1  24    E  1,000
Assam       20           112       98       70         -        -          300
Haryana       29            1        -         -        -         -          266
Karnataka       10          30        40       56        50        24         209
Kerala       1           10        8         -         -        -           25
Maharashtra       23          71        62        44        -         -          200
Tamil Nadu        -            -        -         -         -        -           -
6129/94
ANNX1 5A.XLS



INDIA: Ditrict Primary ERducation ProgaM                                                                                   Annex 14
Civil Works Plans                                                                                       Pg 
WORK           OW NER              CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES                            PAYMENTS                                  CONSTRUCTION  MANAGEMENT]
NAME OF TIHE    NAME OF H     OKFOE    HOW IS THE   NAME OFTE  NAME OF THiE    METHOD OF PAYMENT TO                   ASSIGNED SUPERVISION RESPONSIBILITY       T    NAME          is THIS
BuILDINGS TO    RSOILE DUKSTO BEE   WORLK TO BE  CONSTRCTON    (ATERIAL                                    I                                                            F      CONSTRUCIION
BR COTRUCT-  OWNER  ADOPTED    AWARDED BY j   AGENCY    ~~P'URCHASING  CONSTRUCTIONJ  MATERIAL                                                 ]   CEPTING    PROCEDURE
ED OR AMONT        AGENCY      PWD/OTHER   COMPETITIVE                  AGENCY       AGENCY/     SUPPLYING     MONTHLY       WEKLY         DAILY        OHR          AECE         RCIE 
IN__________                      BFIDOTHER  JCEMENT/STEEL   DURATION    AGENCY/DUE                                WEOTE                                   AGENCIES_     BEFORCED
ASS AM"__                                              _    _       _     _      _         _            _             _                                                    _
C) CLASS ROOMS    VILLAGE      OTHER         OTHER      V C C. WITH    V C.C THRU   ADVANCE TO    ADVANCE    CONSULTANT        JR         MISTY         D~P.E        V.C C         YES
AND OTHER  CONSTRUCTION                            LOCAL LABOUR    D0E 0         V.c.C +      V C C +                                                 IN       CONSULTANT
BRUILDINGS    CO&EMTTTRE                            +EXPERIENCED                STAGEWISE    DIRECT TO                                             IS DAYS        DPE+
COSTING lESS    (V CZC)                                MISTY                    PAYMENTr       MARKET                                                               JE
THAN RS. -30   OPFELEVEN                                                         DEFINED
LARNS.      MEMBERS                                                           IN S AGE
AND MAX OF
ES. 30/Sqft
FOR LABOUR
(b)    WORK         D.C.C          PWD       COMPETMTVE    SELECTED    CONTRACTOR      AS PER PW  PROCEDURIE          By SUPERVISING AGENCY WHO WILL CAIREY OUT        D.CC.          NO.
EXCEEDING   CONSULTANT                    BID       CONTRACTOR                                                          DAY TO DAY SUPERVISION.                CONSULTANT
RE. 3 LARHSS
KARNATAKA                         __           __            __           __           __           __            _ __                 _
ALL TYPES        D.P.IC        P.W.D      WORKS TO BE  DEPARTMENT        P.        MUSTER       AGAINST       EX. ENG.    ASSISTANT       A-R                       XNO            E
1                         EXECUTED         +        N*ER            ROLL       VOUCHERS   POETNIONTY         EX.                     1
BUILDINGS;       P.P RGO                  DEPARTIMEN     LOCAL        DS            (DAILY       AT THE                   ENGINEER         JR                        B.E0
REPAMS                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PURCHASE                   WORK
I                      _________  _________                                                 P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ULLDAY
KERALA__                                                                 ____ ___
ADDITIONAL    PROJECT      PTA'S WIlL    SELECTED      LOCAL         P.T.A.     ADVANCE       ADVANCE          -                        PA             -P.D.
MS   CLASSROOMIS   DIRECTOR   GET THE WORK   BIDDING    CIONTRACTORS                     TO                                                                             CIVI          YES
+          (CIVIL)    BXBCUTED        FMX                                     P.T.A
REPAIRS +       +        THRLU LOCAL     LOCAL 
DRINKING      (P.T.A)   CONTRAL'TOR  CONTRACTORS                               IN STAGE
WATER +                    AT THE        ONLY                                  TO LOCAL
TOILETS +                   FIXED        THRtO.                               CONTRACTOR
PA.RTInom                 ESTIMATED      P.T.A
WALLS                     RATES
(b)  WORKS OTHE       P.D.        P.W.D      CONPEITrTVE  CONTRACrOR       P.D.       MONTHLY        DME           ASST         A.E.       OVERSEER                     P~D.          YES
THEN LISTED    (CIVIL)                     BIDS                     (CIVI)        BuiLs        FUNDS         AR.            +         GRADE-Il                   (CIVIL)
ABOVE                                                                                                     FORT-       OVERSEER
NIGHTY       GRADE-I
ALT.
DAYS



INDIA: District Primary Education Program 1                                                                               Annex 14
Page 4
Civil Works Plans
WORK           OWNER               CONSTRUCTION  PROCEDURES                          PAYMENTS                                 CONSTRUCTION  MANAGEMENT
NAME OF THE     NAME OF THE  WORK PROCE.   HOWISTHE   NAME OF THE  NAME OF THE    METHOD OF PAYMENT TO               ASSIGNED SUPERVISION RESPONSIBILITY          NAME         IS THIS
BUILDINGS TO    RESPONSIBLE   DURES TO BE   WORK TO BE  CONSTRUCTION   MATERIAL                                                                                     OF      CONSTRUCnON
BE CONSTRUCT-      OWNER       ADOPTED    AWARDED BY    AGENCY       PURCHASING  CONSTRuCnoN   MATERIAL                                                          ACCEPTING    PROCEDURE
ED OR AMOUNT      AGENCY      FwD/OTHER   COMPETMVE                    AGENCY       AGENCY'    SUPPLYING     MONTHLY       WEEKLY        DAILY        OTHER       AGENCIES    PRACTICED
IN__(RS.)__                 BID/OTHER               CEMENT/STEEL   DURATION    AGENCY/OUR.                                                                      BEFORE
HARYANA
PRATHMIR    BUILDINGS       P.W.D     WORK TO BE   DEPARTMENT      GOVT        MUSTER       PAYMENT                                  J EE        EX.ENG      EX. ENG.       YES
H)    SHIKSHA       COSTING                  EXECUTED                    STORES       ROLL         WILL BE                              ALTERNATE       WILL
PARISHAD       LESS                    DEPARTM-      LOCAL                                 RELEASED                                DAYS .        ISSUE      EDUCATION
THAN                    ENTALLY       LABOUR                                  FROM                                  MORTAR    CERTIFICATES    DEPT +
EX ENG OF   RS 1. 5 LAKHS                                                                  DPEP FUNDS                             MATE WILL      FICATES    HEADMASTER
PANCHAYATI                                                                                 BY PARISHAD                             CARRYOUT       WITH
RAJ                                                                                                                              DAY TO     ACCEPTANCE
DAY       AT DEFINED
SUFERVI_    STAGES NI 
SIONS    POUNDATIONS.
ROOF SLAB)
(b)   PRATIMDK     BUILDINGS      P W D     COMPETMVE  CONTRACTOR        GOVT        MONTHLY    PAYMENT                                    J E         EX.ENG       EX. ENG.       YES
SHIUSHA     COTING                      BIDS                      STORES      AGAINST      WILL BE                               ALTERNATE       WILL          +
PARISHAD     BETWEEN                                            BRICK RATES     BILLS      RELEASED                                DAYS *        ISSUE      EDUCATION
+       RS I 5 LALNS                                          wILL BE                    FROM                                   MORTAR    CERTIFICATES    DErT +..
EX.ENG. OF      TO                                                FIXED BY                 DPEP FUNDS                             MATE WILL      FICATES    HEADMASTER 
PANCHAYAnA I RtS  LAKHS                                              D.C                   BY PARISHAD                             CADRRYOUT      WITH
RAJ.                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAY TO  ACCEPTANCE
+                                                                                                                                DAY       AT DEFINED
DPIU                                                                                                                             SUPERVI.    STAGES (,g
SIONS    FOUNDATIONS.
ROOF SLAB)
(c)   FWD (R)       SIrEUT        PWD       COMPETIVE  CONTRACTOR        GOVT       MONTHLY      PAYMENT    EX. ENGRS                     SDE +        EX.ENG      EX. ENGR        YES
+        TEXT BOOK                    BID                      STORES        BILLS      WILL BE      REPORT TO                    IE          WILL           +
PRATnHMIK     BOARD                                                                        RELEASED      PARSHAD                                 ISSUE         C.E.
SHMISHA     BUbLDINGS                                                                        FROM          +                                 CERTIFICATES    D P ILU
PARLsHAD    (GURGAON)                                                                     DPEP FUNDS    CE (BR)                                 FICATES
BY PARLSHAD                                            WITH
ACCEPTANCE
AT DEFINED
STAGES N. I
FOUNDATIONS.
ROOF SLAB)
TAMIL NADU
ALL TYPES     CONSTRUCnON      F W 0     COMPETImvE  CONTRACTOR   DEPARTMENT        AT       DEPARTMENT    EX. ENGR.  |                 A..           -        DEPARTMENT      YES
OF           WING OF                     BIDS                 T                VARIOUS                  AT VARIOUS                    +                         +
BUILDINGS      EDUCAnON  |                                                        STAGES                     STAGES                    WORK                       P.W.D
+          DEPARTMENT                                                                                                              INSPEC-
REPAIRS                                             ______jTOE



INDIA: District Primary Eduication Program 1                                                                                Annex 14
Page 5
Civil Works Plns
WORK           OWNER               CONSTRUCTION  PROCEDURES                           PAYMENTS                                  CONSTRUCTION   MANAGEMENT
NAME OF THE     NAME OF THE  WORK PROCE-   HOW IS THE   NAME OF THE  NAME OF THE    METHOD OF PAYMENT TO               ASSIGNED SUPERVISION RESPONSIEILITY            NAME         IS THLS
BUILDINGS TD    RESPONSIBLE   DURES TO BE   WORK TO BE  CONSTRUCTION   MATERIAL                                                                                        OF      CONSTUCTON
BE CONSTRUCT-      OWNER        ADOPTED    AWARDED BY |  AGENCY       PUSCHASING  CONSTRUC                     MOTLYATERIAL                                         ACCEING    PROCEDURE
ED Olt AMOUNT      AGENCY      PWD/OHF    COMPTTVE                      AGENCY       AGENCYI      SUPPYING     MONTLY        WEKY          DL             TE          GNIS        RCI
IN (IIS.)                                BIEDIOTHER  |CEUENT/STEEL   DURATION                    -------RBEOR
MIAHARASHTRA
CLASS ROOMS     m.P.s.P      P.W.D      COMPETmVE   CONTRACTOR       WOIK         MONTLY      ADVANCE        D ENG          ILE                      EX.ENG-
+            +                        SIDS                    COMMITTEE       SILLS                  FORTNIGHTLY                                ONCE IN
()     SE.R.C.       WORKS                                                                                          +                                    3 MONTHS
+        COMMITTEE                                                                                   CONSULTANT                                   +
UNIrS                                                                                                                                                 o
(       .) MI.E.P.A  STATE         P.W.D     COMPETMVE       STATE         P.W.D      MONTHLY      ADVANCE                         CONSULTANT                           STATE         NO
*           LVL                                     LVL                       BUILS                                                                           LVL
SCE1T     CONSULTANT                              CONSULTANT                                                                                                  FINANCE
STREmarHENVll                                              +                                                                                                     COMMrTTEE
l  CONTRACIVl                                                                                                                                   t.






- 245 -                          Annex 15
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Public Finances and Education Expenditures in the Six IDA/DPEP States
1.    The DPEP Guidelines include three financial criteria:
(a)   states will be required to contribute around 15 percent of total project
costs
(b)   program resources are to be a net addition to normal growth of state plan
allocations for education as a whole and primary education specifically
(c)   annual recurrent costs of the investment are to be shown to be sustainable
on state non plan budgets at the end of the project.
Initially, the DPEP is being supported by IDA in 23 districts across 6 states. The
intention is to eventually cover many more districts in these states. This would create
additional financial demands on the state governments.
2.    This annex analyzes the financial capacity of DPEP states to meet the criteria and
projected expansions.  It concludes that:  (a) all state govemments will be able to
contribute their 15 percent share of project costs, (b) Assam and Tamil Nadu might have
difficulties meeting the additionality criteria, (c) all states should be able to sustain
project costs in the initial project districts, but (d) expanding DPEP to additional districts
could place sustainability at risk, particularly in Assam and Tamil Nadu. Uncertainties
related to project financing stem from current patterns of public finance (Assam and
Tamil Nadu) and a projected decline in the growth of transfers from the center to all
states. Growth in state revenues resulting from a stronger economy plus a projected
restructuring of state public finances could result in additional resources for DPEP.
A. EDUCATION FINANCE IN INDIA
Sources of Education Finance
3.    Education is financed from  three sources:  the central government, state
governments and households. Government expenditures on education comprise central
and state, plan and non-plan expenditures. Plan expenditures finance new activities and
non-plan expenditures finance existing activities. The central government provides no
non-plan support to primary education.
4.    Total government expenditures. In 1991/92, total (central plus state, plan and
non-plan) government expenditures on education in India amounted to 3.3 percent of
GDP, a share substantially lower than several other highly populated countries in the
region. The share of total budgetary resources devoted to education is also relatively



- 246 -                         Annex 15
Page 2
low. While the share has increased over recent years from 9.8 percent in 1985/86 to
10.6 percent in 1991/92, it is still below the average of 12.2 percent for all other low
income countries and well below the 18-20 percent recorded such countries as Malaysia
and Thailand.
5.    The distribution of total government education expenditure by level changed only
slightly between 1980 and 1992. Between 1985 and 1992, the share for elementary
education (which includes both lower and upper primary, and in most states covers eight
years of schooling) was 45 percent of the total. Again, comparisons with other countries
in the region utilizing common definitions of primary and secondary schooling suggest
that the share for primary in India is low.
6.    The Eighth Plan (1992-97) envisages a sharp change in the pattern of total
government plan expenditures across the education sector, in two respects. First, total
plan expenditures on education are expected to be 2.5 times higher than those in the
Seventh Plan.  Second, elementary education will receive a higher share of plan
expenditures.  Compared to the period 1985-92, plan expenditures for elementary
education are projected to increase from 37 to 47 percent with consequent falls in
secondary (from 24 to 18 percent) and higher (16 to 8 percent) education; Eighth Plan
expenditures on elementary education are expected to be 3.5 times higher than those in
the Seventh Plan.
7.    Central government.  In recent years, central government expenditures for
education have averaged around 1.3 percent of total central government expenditures.
The central government provides less than 10 percent of total government education
expenditure, all of which for elementary education is plan expenditure.  Central
government plan expenditures for elementary education have increased. In the Sixth Plan
(1980-85), elementary education was allocated 11.7 percent of the total, a figure that
increased to 24.2 percent in the Seventh Plan (1985-90) and is projected to increase to
38.6 percent in the Eighth Plan.
8.    State government. State governments provide over 90 percent of total government
education expenditure. The overall share of state domestic product allocated to education
has increased from 2.8 percent in 1978/79 to 4.0 percent in 1990/91. In the 1990/91,
this share ranged from 3.0 percent in Haryana to 6.3 percent in Kerala. As a share of
total state government expenditures, education expenditures averaged 18.4 percent in
1990/91, up from 15.4 percent in 1980/81, an ranged from 14.9 percent in Haryana to
24.6 percent in Kerala. Expenditure per capita ranged from Rs155 in Uttar Pradesh to
Rs271 in Kerala.
9.    Reflecting the division of responsibilities, a greater share of state government
expenditure (49 percent in 1991) is allocated to elementary education than is the case for
central government expenditures and a slightly lower share is allocated to higher
education. The latter is the only level whose share has fallen over the last decade. The
pattern of Plan expenditures in particular has clearly shifted towards elementary



- 247 -                         Annex 15
Page 3
education since 1970 and this is projected to be repeated during the Eighth Plan (1992-
97). Again there are substantial differences in the shares of education expenditure by
state with, for instance, elementary taking 61 percent of the share in Madhya Pradesh and
31 percent in the Punjab.
10.   Households. A third major source of education finance is households, through
direct and indirect contributions to public and private schools. According to the Fifth
All India Survey for 1986, 5 and 9 percent of primary and upper primary enrollments
respectively were in private aided schools. In the larger cities, unaided schools are more
evident. In Delhi, for instance, 14 and 8 percent of primary and upper primary children
were in these schools.  Households also make both direct and indirect financial
contributions towards children's schooling in government schools. National Sample
Survey data for 1986/87 provide some estimates of overall household education
expenditure. In elementary education the average annual expenditure was reported to be
Rs86 in government schools and Rs217 in aided schools. These figures can be compared
with the average unit cost of elementary education across the six IDA/DPEP states of
Rs441 in that year.
State Government Finances and Economic Adjustment
11.   State governments fund over 90 percent of the public costs of education in India
and virtually all primary and secondary education. Any consideration of education
finance, therefore, has to be seen in the wider context of state finances.
12.   Revenue account deficits. Between 1980/81 and 1986/87 a deficit on the all-
states' revenue (recurrent) account occurred in only one year. Since then, dissaving on
a considerable magnitude has occurred each year: (Rs crores)
1987-88     -       1,088       1990-91      -     5,309
1988-89     -       1,807       1991-92     -      5,651
1989-90     -       3,682       1992-93      -     4,116 (revised estimate)
While falling in 1992-93, the deficit is predicted by the Reserve Bank to increase once
again in 1993-94.
13.   These deficits together with capital expenditures and net lending constitute the
gross fiscal deficit. This has increased even more dramatically since the early 1980s and
is expected to increase significantly over 1993/94: (Rs crores)
1980-81   -    3,713            1992-93   -   19,988 (revised estimates)
1990-91   -   18,787            1993-94   -   23,706  (budget estimates)
1991-92   -   18,900



- 248 -                          Annex 15
Page 4
14.   Equally disturbing, the proportion of overall borrowing which covered deficits of
capital expenditure fell from 86 percent in 1980 to 49 percent in 1990-91 implying an
increasing necessity to borrow for revenue (basically recurrent) expenditures. The budget
deficits have led to increased loans and indebtedness. The outstanding debts of state
governments grew from Rs21,600 crores, equal to 17.6 percent of GDP, in 1980 to
Rs91,000 crores equal to 23.0 percent of GDP in 1990. As a result, levels of interest
and capital repayments are high and growing. For all states combined these were equal
to 15.7 percent of non Plan expenditures in 1989-90 rising to 17.9 percent in 1991-92.
15.   In the current economic climate, the option of depending on increasing central
transfers to finance both investments and recurrent operations is being foreclosed given
the fragility of the central government's own fiscal position: the answers are to increase
the tax base and to increase non tax revenues through particular increases in user
charges. Across states in general, fiscal correction is required if governments'
developmental role, including the provision of primary education, is to be maintained or
increased.
16.   Revenue accounts in IDA/DPEP states. As indicated above, across all states there
have been deficits on the revenue account each year since 1987-88, rising in all but one
of these years. In table I the revenue account surplus/deficits for the six IDA DPEP
states are presented for 1991/92 (actual), 1992/93 (revised) and 1993/94 (budget). They
are also shown as a share of total receipts. Only Assam, dependent on central transfers
to the extent of 48 percent of revenues in 1991/92, has been in surplus in each of the
three years, though Haryana and Karnataka had relatively small deficits in the first year
and surpluses in the other two. In absolute terms, Maharashtra's deficits have been large
but expressed as percentages of total receipts they have not risen above 5.3 percent. The
situation in Kerala and, particularly, in Tamil Nadu is worse. In the former the deficits
have been between 12. 1 and 14.4 percent of receipts while in the latter the range has
been from 15.1 to 28.1 percent. Compared to the 'all-states' position on the revenue
account Assam, Haryana, Karnataka and Maharashtra are more healthy and Kerala and
Tamil Nadu less healthy. The seriousness of Assam's position, however, with its huge
dependence on grants indicated above, is underestimated by these figures.
17.   All states have a gross fiscal deficit. As a percentage of receipts these were
estimated in the 1993/94 budgets at 13.6 in Assam, 15.6 in Haryana, 20.5 in Karnataka,
20.9 in Maharashtra, 26.0 in Kerala and 28.9 percent in Tamil Nadu. For 'all states'
the percentage was 23.7. The overall surplus/deficit position provides a slightly different
picture. This measure differs from the gross fiscal deficit in that it demonstrates the
situation after accounting for net loans from the center. As a percentage of receipts the
overall deficits are highest in Assam (9.3) and Tamil Nadu (4.6). In none of the other
IDA DPEP states was the deficit higher than 1.5 percent of receipts.



- 249 -                            Annex 15
Page 5
Table 1. Revenue Account Surplus/Deficit by Individual States 1991-92 to 1993-94
(Rs crores)
State                         1991-92          1992-93         1993-94
Assam                         269.6            303.4            161.1
(11.1)          (10.7)            (5.5)
Haryana                       -32.2             16.7             37.8
(-1.4)           (0.6)            (1.3)
Karnataka                     -178.6           104.8            416.5
(-4.8)           (1.8)            (5.9)
Kerala                       -364.4           485.0            -465.6
(-12.8)         (-14.4)          (-12.1)
Maharashtra                  -276.1           -573.8           -343.1
(-2.8)          (-5.3)           (-2.8)
Tamil Nadu                  -1903.8          -1008.6          -1360.5
(-28.1)         (-15.1)          (-19.6)
All states                  -5650.7          -4116.8          4524.2
(-7.0)          (4.5)            (4.5)
Note: figures in parenthesis express the surplus/deficit as percent of total revenue.
Source: Reserve Bank of India Bulletin October 1993 Statement 11.
18.   In principle borrowing is not necessarily a cause for concern. When a significant
proportion of the borrowing requirement (gross fiscal deficit) is for financing the revenue
account, however, this places a severe constraint on capital outlays. Assam and Haryana
apparently have surplus' on the revenue account and low net borrowing requirements.
Karnataka again has a surplus but borrows significantly for capital requirements.
Maharashtra has a relatively modest deficit and borrows mainly to finance capital
requirements. While Kerala is a moderate borrower, a relatively high proportion of this
is to fund the revenue deficit. The state in the most extreme position (not only with
regard to the six described here but among all states) is Tamil Nadu which has a high
overall borrowing requirement of which over 60 percent is required to cover the revenue
deficit. Such a situation is likely to be unsustainable.
Education Finance
19.   Expenditures. In table 2, revenue expenditures made by departments of education
and by all other departments on education and training are expressed in terms of their
shares in state domestic product (SDP), and total government expenditure and per capita
allocations for 1991/92. State per capita incomes are also presented. Apart from
Haryana, each of the six DPEP states was spending a higher proportion of state domestic
product on education than the average state in India. Kerala stands out as the state



- 250 -                          Annex 15
Page 6
devoting the highest share to education (6.5 percent), followed by Assam (5.9 percent)
and Tamil Nadu (5.8 percent). Shares in the other three states were between 3.1 and 4.1
percent.
20.   The pattern for the share of education in state government total expenditure is
similar to that for SDP. Kerala devotes the highest percentage, averaging around 25
percent followed by Assam and Tamil Nadu. The share in Karnataka and Haryana is
currently around one third below that in Kerala. Comparing 1985-86 with 1992-93, very
few changes have occurred to shares within states.
Table 2. Education Expenditures Across Six States. 1991-92
Measure        Assam   Haryana   Karnataka    Kerala    Maharashtra    Tamil Nadu
As % SDP         5.9      3.1        4.1        6.5         4.0           5.8
As % total      23.6      18.4      19.9        25.2        22.4          22.0
budget
Per capita      239       228        208        273         258           233
expenditure
Per capita      3858      8770      4832        4654       9113          4507
SDP
Source: Tables supplied by Ministry of Human Resource Development.
21.   The very large differences in education's share of total expenditure and GDP do
not result in commensurate differences in educational expenditure per capita; all states
spend 200-280 Rs per capita on education. While per capita expenditures are highest in
Kerala, the lowest (in Karnataka) is 24 percent below. A greater "effort" is required in
Kerala, Assam and Tamil Nadu to reach the same level of provision as in the three more
wealthy states. The ability of these relatively poorer states to continue to provide this
effort would depend upon the continued receipt of central government grants in Assam
and high levels of borrowing in Tamil Nadu to fund the deficit on the revenue account.
22.   The most recent year for which data are available on actual expenditures by level
of education by state is for 1990/91. The states spend between 46 and 56 percent of
expenditure on elementary education and between 27 and 35 percent on secondary
schooling. A comparison of expenditure data for 1989/90 with the budgeted estimates
for 1992/93, projects a reduced share for higher education (all states but Kerala).
23.    Non-plan expenditures account for the largest share of state education
expenditures (89.5 percent in 1990/91). For the education departments of the IDA DPEP
states, the non-plan expenditure shares were:
Assam   1.6    Haryana       93.1    Karnataka    89.6
Kerala  97.0    Maharashtra  97.5    Tamil Nadu   95.0



- 251 -                          Annex 15
Page 7
For other departments that offer "educational" services-such as school incentive
schemes for "backward" groups-the share of non-plan expenditures is lower.
24.   Of total pLan expenditure on education, 40 percent comes from departments other
than the department of education. Table 3 shows the proportion of plan expenditures on
primary education as a share of total primary education expenditures for the six states.
Table 3. Plan Expenditures on Primary Education as Share of Total Pnmaiy
Education Expenditures. 1990-91 to 1992-93. Six States
(percent)
State                       1990-91        1991-92         1992-93
Assam                        35.3            45.5           43.1
Haryana                       8.1            9.6            13.9
Kamataka                      8.2            13.6           23.6
Kerala                        0.4            0.4             0.7
Maharashtra                   1.4            3.6             3.4
Tamil Nadu                    6.6            4.8             5.0
Source: Ministry of Human Resource Development: Analysis of Budgeted Expenditure on Education
1990/91 to 1992/93.
25.   In Assam, plan expenditures are a very high proportion of the total, but is not a
consequence of large expansionary programs. Rather it reflects the paucity of non plan
revenues and the necessity to use plan grants to finance the recurrent costs. This must
be regarded as a very worrying situation.
26.   In Karnataka, there is a very clear upward trend in plan proportions with the
current level being almost a quarter of total expenditures; and a similar trend can be seen
for Haryana over the past three years, though at a much lower rate.
27.   The very low plan expenditures in Kerala imply considerable financial constraints
on new primary education programs. The same is true, though to a lesser extent, in
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. It needs reiterating that on average across all states and
levels of education, 40 percent of plan expenditures on education are the responsibility
of departments other than education and that much of these fund incentive programs.
28.   Centrally sponsored schemes. In 1991/92 across all states, centrally sponsored
scheme (CSS) allocations were equal to 34 percent of total state plan expenditures on
primary education. Most CSS support formal and non-formal elementary education and,
apart from grants for non-formal education for boys, none requires matching
expenditures.
29.   On the whole, the six IDA/DPEP states have received below average CSS
allocations. For Assam the proportion is relatively small-mainly because of abnormally
high plan allocations-and are likely to increase as a proportion of funding for new



- 252 -
Annex 15
Page 8
activities. In Haryana, the grants have been relatively small, amounting to around a fifth
of state plan expenditure in 1991/92. Although CSS grants appear to have increased
rapidly in Karnataka in 1991/92 to a level of almost 30 percent of state funding, they
generally have been equivalent to around 10 to 15 percent. In Kerala the grants are
small, but state plan expenditures are even smaller. The pattern in Maharashtra is
similar to that in Karnataka. In 1991/92 there appears to have been a major surge in
grants while on average they have been equal to around 20 percent of state expenditures.
Finally, the ratio seems to be more significant in Tamil Nadu varying between one
quarter and one half.  Because state plan expenditures incorporate those made by
departments other than education, the values of central government expenditures relative
to state plan expenditures on new educational activities are actually significantly higher
than those implied above.
B. DPEP FINANCIAL GUIDELINES
30.   Education finance patterns have implications for four financial aspects of the
DPEP Guidelines: the requirement for a 15 percent contribution from the state, project
additionality, financial sustainability and the anticipated expansion of the program.
State contribution
31.   The requirement for states to fund 15 percent of the total project cost should not
cause problems. The annual average allocations likely to be required from the states
over the project period (assuming a seven year project) are shown below together with
the 1992/93 actual plan expenditures and 1993/94 outlays on elementary education across
the six states: (Rs crores).
Assam      Haryana    Karnataka    Kerala    Maharashtra    Tamil N.
1992/93      72.0        10.2       118.8        2.4        38.8         27.5
1993/94     102.7        19.6       202.1        3.2        41.5         38.3
1994-2000     3.7         3.4         3.9        2.3         4.4          2.5
32.   The envisaged annual expenditures over the project period are equal to 3.6, 17.3,
1.9, 71.9, 10.6 and 6.5 percent of 1993/94 plan outlays on elementary education across
the six states (taken alphabetically). In the state where the required allocation will be
equal to over two thirds of the existing outlay (Kerala), the absolute level of resources
involved is the lowest-and equal to just 0.6 percent of the non plan expenditures on
elementary education. Probably the state with the largest potential problem is Assam
where the low percentage hides a situation where virtually all plan expenditures are
necessary for funding non plan activities. The Planning Commission has agreed to the
incorporation of, at least, the required level of resources for DPEP in each of the
1994/95 annual state plans.



- 253 -                          Annex 15
Page 9
Additionality
33.   The requirement that the state's contribution to DPEP is a net addition to plan
expenditures on elementary education is central to GOIs intention that the program leads
to overall increases in resources for education. Additionality is feasible for all states,
although state budgets will require careful monitoring. Only in Tamil Nadu were real
expenditures in both elementary and general education not maintained between 1990/91
and 1992/93.
34.   The concept of additionality adopted by the Government reflects the one agreed
between IDA and the Government of India for the Social Safety Net arrangements. That
is, plan expenditures, minus the states' DPEP contributions, should be at levels that at
least maintain real resources for the education sector in general and for elementary
education in particular at their 1991/92 levels. On the basis of recent evidence this
requirement should not be too difficult to achieve for most of the states but will require
careful monitoring in others. Plan expenditures at constant prices between 1990/91 and
1992/93 are described in Table 4.
Table 4. Plan Expenditures on Elementara and General Education 1990/91 to 1992/93
in IDA DPEP States
(Constant 1990/91 Rs crores)
Elementary                                              Gnd
State    1990/91      1991/92      1992/93      1990/91      1991/92     1992/93
Assam     43.0        48.4          72.0          79.1         90.9        138.2
Haryana    7.4         8.5          10.2          24.6         32.3        37.2
Kamataka  33.3        51.0         118.8          79.0         82.6        180.5
Kerala     1.7         1.3          2.4           9.6          9.3         12.9
Maharashtra 6.1       17.9          38.8          20.6         64.9        62.0
Tanii Nadu 34.8      31.5          27.5          91.0         79.3        70.4
35.  In Tamil Nadu real expenditures were lower in 1991/92 than in 1990/91 on both
elementary education and general education.  In Maharashtra, general education
expenditures were slightly lower in 1992/93 than in the previous year though elementary
expenditures were higher. While elementary and general education expenditures fell in
Kerala in 1991/92, they fully recovered in the following year. In the other states, real
expenditures on both elementary and general education increased each year. However,
in Assam, the large increases do not reflect new programs but rather the necessity for
ongoing programs to be funded through plan expenditures as a result of severe difficulties



- 254 -                           Annex 15
Page 10
in the non plan budget. The significant increases in plan elementary expenditures in
Karnataka and Maharashtra partly reflect substantial expansion of their incentive
programs. Expenditures in Haryana, while relatively low, have maintained an upward
trend.
Sustainability
36.   The ability of a state to sustain post project recurrent costs on the non plan budget
depends on a number of factors. Among these are (a) the structure of the project itself
and the consequent level of recurring expenditures, (b) the outcome of the Tenth Finance
Commission, in the second half of 1994, which will set the pattern for non discretionary
central transfers over the coming years, (c) the future level and pattem of discretionary
transfers, (d) the strength of the economy and increases in state revenues and (e) the
willingness and ability of govemments to reorient their activities and restructure their
budgets. The uncertainties of (b)-(e) are so great that only the past and present can be
used as a guide to the future. However, since it is the declared intention of those
participating in DPEP to accelerate the development of primary education, partly through
an increase in the level of resources, the guide must be regarded as partial.
37.   During the project life, the composition and scale of activities implemented is
likely to change from that currently proposed. However, using the existing programs and
assuming a real rate of expenditure growth for elementary education of 4.0 percent a
year over the full project life across each state, the data in table 5 indicate that the annual
recurring costs would roughly be equivalent to between one third and twice the normal
increase in non plan expenditures allocated to elementary education in the year following
the end of the seven year project. For each of the three southern states plus Maharashtra
the required increase would be below 50 percent of that "normally" allocated (although
since these states each has substantial incentive programs the full costs of increased
enrollments would be additional).
Table 5. Projections of Non Plan Expenditures on Elementara Education in IDA
DPEP States
(Constant 1993/94 Rs crores)
Final year non- Increase in non- Recurring non-  Column (4)1
1993/4 Non-   plan outlay  plan outlay, year plan project Colunn (3), as a
State     plan outlay  (4 percent p. a.)  after project   expenditures  percent
Assam                274           361           14.4           8.6         60
Haryana              119           157            6.3          12.6         200
Kamataka             551           725           29.0          14.1         49
Kerala               533           701           28.0          10.0          36
Maharashtra          960          1263           50.5          19.7         39
Tanil Nadu           521           686           27.4          11.0          40



- 255 -                          Annex 15
Page 11
38.   The increases would average around Rs12 crores compared to an average non plan
budget of around Rs850 crores. In Assam the requirement is a little higher and the
finalization of the work program could result in substantially higher recurring costs than
those reflected in the submissions and recorded in table 5. If the final program structure
reflects those of the other five states, the non plan increase required to sustain it could
be equal to the "normal" allocation. The state which appear to be most out of line is
Haryana where the currently low non plan allocations will result in the recurring costs
of the project being twice the level of "normal" non plan increases. While the state's
proposals are less recurrent cost intensive than in either Maharashtra or Karnataka, the
current low levels of non plan expenditures result in their budgetary impact being much
greater. Haryana has the third highest per capita income across the major states. The
required increases in the non plan budget will be within the government's means if the
political will exists.
39.   Another way of viewing the requirements is to compare it with a "normal" 4
percent increase in the non plan budget. In the year following the end of the project, the
requirement for sustainability would be an increase of 6.4 percent in Assam, 12.0 percent
in Haryana, 5.9 percent in Karnataka, 5.4 percent in Kerala, 5.6 percent in Maharashtra
and 5.6 percent in Tamil Nadu.
40.   A third way is to consider the annual rate of growth required over the whole
project period which would fully finance the recurring cost of project items at the end
of the project. This would take into account salaries, which are a significant part of all
states' programs and the costs of which will need to be picked up by the states over the
life of the project. Instead of the 4.0 percent adopted, the growth rates would need to
be 4.3 percent in Assam, 5.0 percent in Haryana, and 4.2 percent in Karnataka, Kerala,
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.
41.   In both these sets of calculation the reservation regarding the validity of the
recurrent cost estimates in the Assam submission needs to be emphasized. In addition,
referring back to the previous analysis of state finances the overall budgetary situation
in both Assam and Tamil Nadu appears problematic.
42.   The considerations above imply that a program to accelerate the quantity and
quality of primary education in a small number of districts will necessitate increasing the
share of the primary education budget but not beyond that possible. This assumes that
(a) the overall financial situations in Assam and Tamil Nadu are restructured in ways that
more closely equate non plan resources with the demands on the budget and (b) a
political will to increase the priority to elementary education is gradually developed in
Haryana.
Expansion of DPEP
43.   The financial strength of the IDA/DPEP states varies considerably. Assam,
Kerala and Tamil Nadu are the weakest, though each demonstrates this in different ways.



256 -                          Annex 15
Page 12
The first two are able to fund very few plan activities while the latter has the highest
borrowing requirement across the states. Maharashtra, Karnataka and Haryana are
relatively strong. All states, however, are likely to be adversely affected by the central
government's stated intention to pursue policies of fiscal correction which will imply
restraints on both grants and lending to states.
44.   The DPEP program is in its first phase within the six states. Over the next
decade or so the number of districts covered will be expanded and the required levels of
both plan and non plan expenditures to fund and sustain the investments, increased
enrollments and new programs will substantially increase. This is desirable. The issue
is where the resources will come from. Among the alternatives are:
(a)   increased state revenues.  This possibility will vary between states.
Already Tamil Nadu and Kerala have the highest levels of tax per capita
and the possibilities of increased non tax revenues including higher
payments for services will need to be considered. Other states such as
Haryana have much lower tax/income ratios.
(b)   reductions in net expenditures in other sectors. Given the relatively low
levels of spending on education in India this approach should be
encouraged.
(c)   restructuring expenditures within the education sector. While it is not
impossible to increase further the share for primary education, the share
for higher education is already relatively low and has been decreasing over
the past decade.
(d)   within primary education there may be possibilities to reduce incremental
capital cost through double shift systems, new technologies and perhaps
fewer but larger schools. These are unlikely to reduce simultaneously the
per pupil recurrent costs of teachers and materials and if they did there
would almost certainly be a reduction in quality. One possible area to find
savings is among the several incentive programs. There is a general but
unproven belief that these are effective in increasing enrollments and
retention. Given their size (in Tamil Nadu they are equivalent to an
increase in unit costs of over 20 percent across all children), however, and
the evidence from both Karnataka and Maharashtra that the schemes are
being widened, their effectiveness needs to be assessed.
State Specific Analyses
45.   Assam. Compared to other states, plan expenditure on elementary education is
large relative to non plan being around a quarter of total expenditure in 1993/4.
Expenditures in the two years 1991/2 and 1992/3 were Rs55 crores and Rs91 crores and



- 257 -                         Annex 15
Page 13
are anticipated to be Rs103 crores in 1993/94. As a result of the serious financial
problems of the state, however, the plan expenditures tend not to be used for financing
new activities as is usual but rather for financing activities begun during the Sixth and
Seventh Plan periods. Normally these activities would by now be financed by non plan
expenditures but revenues are insufficient. The deficit on the revenue account was
RsIO.3 crores in 1991/92, Rs23.8 crores in 1992/93 and is estimated to be Rs 91.0
crores in 1993/94. Part of the deficit results from large repayments on past loans. The
numbers of primary schools and teachers have been stationary since 1991/92. Since 1991
Assam has been categorized as Special Category State which results in central plan
assistance being transferred on terms of 90 percent grant and 10 percent loan as opposed
to the normal terms of 70 percent loan and 30 percent grant. This change should lead
to a reduction in liabilities from 1994/95 onwards and the beginning of a more healthy
financial situation.
46.   Haryana.  Elementary education expenditures in the Seventh Plan were 2.5
percent of the total. In the Eighth Plan the allocation is equal to 2.4 percent although
in the first year, 1992/93, actual expenditures were equal to only 1.7 percent and the
allocation for 1993/94 is below the average annual required to achieve the Eighth Plan
total. In absolute terms, actual plan expenditures on elementary education increased from
Rs7.3 to Rs9.9 to RsI2.7 crores over the past three years and Rsl9.6 crores were
budgeted for 1993/94. Of some concern, however, is that expenditures in 1992/3 were
22 percent less than those budgeted. Haryana's financial position is one of the healthiest
in the country and it is reported to be state policy that, in the event of reductions in plan
allocations, the three areas totally safeguarded are centrally sponsored schemes,
externally aided projects and the Electricity Board. While there is an undoubted ability
to ensure that plan allocations to elementary education in addition to those required for
DPEP will continue to grow, the comparatively poor record in the past and the
experience (common to most states) of reductions in budgeted outlays will require careful
monitoring.
47.   Karnataka.  The overall financial situation of Karnataka state is one of the
strongest in the country. Since 1989/90 deficits on the revenue account have declined
continuously and in 1992/3 were equal to less than one percent of expenditures. A
considerable surplus is projected for the current year. Over the period 1985/6 to 1992/3,
expenditures on primary education increased at a faster rate than overall state
expenditures. Plan expenditures on elementary education reported in the state proposal
have increased substantially over the past four years from Rs33.3 crores in 1990/1 to
Rs147.4 in 1992/3 and a budgeted Rs202.1 crores in 1993/4. Much of this increase in
the past two years is due to an extension of various incentive programs. Plan allocations
to the education sector as a whole have increased from 3.1 percent of the total in the
Seventh Plan to 8.2, 12.4, 23.6 and 26.8 percent in each of the last four years. At the
same time, the share of primary education within general education has also increased.
48.   Kerala. Of the six states Kerala has the second highest projected revenue account
deficit for 1993/4. Partly as a result its plan expenditures are relatively low. Currently



- 258 -                         Annex 15
Page 14
it spends a higher proportion of its domestic product and total budget expenditure on
education than does any other state. In 1992/3 education consumed 34 percent of non
plan revenue expenditures and 11 percent of plan revenue expenditures. Looked at in
another way, however, plan expenditures on primary education are a tiny part of total
primary expenditures-less that one percent in each of the last four years (1990/1 -
1993/4).  In absolute terms, they were Rsl.7, Rsl.5, Rs3.0 and Rs3.2 crores
respectively. Allocations from centrally sponsored schemes (eg operation blackboard)
have tended to exceed those made by the state.
49.   Maharashtra. Maharashtra is one of the few revenue surplus states with relatively
limited amounts of borrowing required, and only for capital expenditures.  Plan
expenditures on elementary education increased from Rs6.0 to Rs2O.3 to Rs48.2 crores
over the period 1990/1 to 1992/3. What is then of concern is that the outlay for 1993/4
fell to Rs41.5 crores. In addition, while the overall size of the Eighth Plan outlay does
not imply much annual growth in real terms compared to 1992/3 the component for
incentives will have to grow as enrollments increase so leaving little room for new
directly educational activities.
50.   Tamil Nadu. Tamil Nadu has incurred large deficits on its revenue account over
recent years. In 1992/3 the deficit was equal to 24 percent of the combined deficit across
all states. It is the only state in which this deficit is equal to over 60 percent of its gross
fiscal deficit (borrowing requirement). Expenditure on education is a relatively high
proportion of domestic product and total state expenditure. The government operates the
most comprehensive set of incentives programs across the states. The combined cost of
books, uniforms and footwear schemes in 1990/1 was equal to 55 percent of elementary
plan expenditure while the cost of the school meals program was over twice as large.
Education as a whole is projected to receive a smaller share of total plan expenditures
during the Eighth Plan than in the Seventh.



- 259 -
Annex 16
Page I
INDIA: District Primary Edtucatioll Program
Super vision Plan
Supervision Objectives and Strategy
1.       Bank supervision for DPEP would be integrated with supervision for the UP Basic
Education Project (Credit 2509-IN) and managed from the New Delhi Resident Mission. The
objectives of the combined supervision programl for the two credits would be to:
a.       assist in the development of the capacity of the DPEP BureaLu and state
implementation societies to supervise and evaluate the GOI's primary
education development program, including both DPEP investments and
earlier state-specific investment projects;
b.       ensure timely and effective imlplemiientation of agreed action programs and
disbursements;
c.       facilitate collaboration among donors supporting primary education
development in India.
2.       Capacity development would be an essential elemenit of IDA supervision. The size
of India's primary education investmnent program, andl the wide geographical distribution of a
multitude of highly decentralized activities, would inake it difficult for IDA to provide effective
implementation support in the traditional headquarters ImlissiOI mode. To assist with capacity
development, IDA staff based in the Resident Mission would, on a continuouls basis:
a.       develop a cadre of national consultants, both individuals and firms, to
assist IDA staff in capacity development and supervision activities;
b.       provide both formal and on-the-job training to DPEP staff in program
supervision techlniques;
c.       together with DPEP nationial staff, provide the samie training to the staff
of state implemenitationi societies.
3.       In parallel, and with support from  the Resident Mission's ProcLuremnent and
Disbursement Unit, IDA staff would monitor implementation, procurement and disburseinent on
a quarterly basis through missions to states and districts, and through close cooperation witlh the
DPEP Bureau and the Department of Economic Affairs.
4.       DPEP would be supported by the European Commilunity and IDA; additional financing
from ODA and other bi-lateral donors is anticipated. Supervision woulcl be carried out in close



Annex 16
- 260 -                                  Page 2
coordination with all program  donors. Methods would inclUde regular quarterly mieetinigs of
donors with DPEP managemienit, joint suL)ervision mlissions at least once a year, and fLull
exchange of supervision reports prepared by DPEP andl the various donors.
5.        Continuious IDA support tor imiplemilenitationi wOUld be structuired in Suchi a way as to
bring appropriate techilical expertise to bear on implementation issues as they miighit arise.
While most of the supervision support would be provided by IDA staff and national consuIltants,
the expertise of senior Bank staff and consuIltanits would be engaged as needed.
6.        IDA supervision in the first year of the program would be concentratecd on project
launch activities and on formal and informal training in supervision techniquies.  DurinIg the
second and thir(d year of the project, IDA supervision woulci gradUally shift toward supervision
of the DPEP  programi imaniagemilenit and sup)ervision activities, augimienlted  by hanids-on
supervision of a sample of state and district implementation activities. This miodel of supervision
would be continuied as the program miatUres and expands.
Supervision Staffing
7.        Supervision Task Management responsibility would be placed in the Residelnt Missioni,
with the IDA supervision unit staffed as follows:
Education Advisor
National Consultanlt
Locai Support Consuiltanit Contracts for:
- Civil Works Sul)ervision
- Project Monitorinig Data Base Managemilenit
Interinittent Local Technical C0onsultants
8.       In addition, Bank staff and international consuiltants would be involvedl annuall) with
specializations depending on problems identified during routine supervision activities.
Modal Supervision Schedtile
9.        The miodal supervision schedUle has beeni desiginecl to mieet supervisionl objectives, to
mesh with the proposed DPEP anilnial work plan and budget review and authorizationi exercise,
and to meet IDA's requiremilenits for semiii-anlilual suIpervision reports. The technical expertise
shown is indicative after the first year of the project.  Actual technilcal expertise would be
determined on the basis of implemilenitatioll issues, and could be brougilt to bear when needed
outside of the formal mission structure.



- 261 -
Annex 16
Page 3
Attachment I
First Project Year. 1994-95
October    Combined Annual Primary Education Investimient Review (DPEP and UP Basic Educatioll)
Objectives: DPEP Project Laulichl
UP Supervision tocused on civil works and staft traning.
Staff development tor DPEP supeLrViSioin team
Team:      Educationl Advisor (NDO)
National Consultanit (NDO)
Procurement Specialist (NDO)
Disbursement Specialist (NDO)
Principal Education Specialist (SA2PH) - traiiig
Principal Implementation Specialist (ESP)
Local Architect (Consultant)
DPEP supervisors
Donor      Participationi by resident stat' ot UNICEF and
Collab-    European Comiunity (EC)
oration
January    DPEP Annual Work Plan and Budget Review
Objeciives: Review of DPEP and UP Aninal Work Plan and Budget Review Processes
Review of research and evaluation activities
Review of training
Review of textbook publication development
Staff development for DP supervisionI statf
Team:      Educationi Advisor (NDO)
National Consultanit (NDO)
Procuremient Specialist (NDO)
Disbursement Specialist (NDO)
Principal Educationi Specialist (SA2PH) - training
Principal Implementation Specialist (ESP)
Principal Educationi Specialist (ESP) - researcil and
evaluation
Local Architect (Consultant)
International Consultant (Textbook publication)
DPEP supervision staft'
Donor      Participation by residenit statt of UNICEF and
Collab-    Europeani Coniiuinity (EC), and externial conlsultanlts
oration    as chosen by colltboratinig doniors.



- 262 -
Annex 16
Page 4
Continuing Resident Mission Implementation Support through field missioins to state and districts.
Workshops in project managemiient and supervision jointly developed and implemented by IDA, DPEP
and other donors.
Second Project Year. 1995-96
October   Combined Annual Primary Education Investment Review (DPEP and UP Basic Education)
Objectives: Implementation of second year work programs
DPEP supervision staff development
Team:      Education Advisor (NDO)
National Consultanit (NDO)
Procurement Specialist (NDO)
Disbursement Specialist (NDO)
Curriculum and materials specialist
Implementation Specialist
Local Architect (Consultant)
DPEP supervision staff
Donor      Participation by residenlt staf'f of UNICEF and
Collab-    European Community (EC) and international consultants
oration    as chosen by collaborating donors.
January    DPEP Annual Work Plan and Budget Review
Objectives: Review of DPEP and UP Annual Work Plan and Budget Review Processes
Review of research and evaluation activities
Review of management arrangements
Staff development for DPEP supeivision staff'
Team:      Education Advisor (NDO)
National Consultant (NDO)
Procurement Specialist (NDO)
Disbursemienit Specialist (NDO)
Evaluation research specialist
Management specialist
Local Architect (Consultant)
DPEP supervision staff
Donor      Participation by residenit staff of UNICEF and
Collab-    European Community (EC), and international consultants
oration    as chosen by collaborating donors
Continuing Resident Mission Implementation SuLp)port thiough field missions to states and districts, with
international consultants as needed.



- 263 -
Annex 16
Page 5
Workshops in project manageient and suIpervision jointly developed anud iliplemented by IDA, DPEP
and other donors.
Third Proiect Year, 1996-97
October    Review of supervision etfectiveness
Planning for mid-term project review
Objective:  Assess and refine supervision procedures and schedules.
Assess supervision capacity of DPEP.
Review plans for tollow baseline achievement stuidies
Team:      Education Advisor (NDO)
National Consuiltant (NDO)
Procuremiienit Specialist (NDO)
Disbursement Specialist (NDO)
Chief (SA2PH)
Evaluation Research Specialist
Management specialist
Local Architect (Consultant)
International Technical Consultants (as needed)
Donor      Participation by resident staff ot UNICEF and
Collab-    Europeani Community (EC), and international consultants
oration    as choseni by collahorating donors
January    DPEP Annual Work Plan and Budget Review
Objectives: Review of DPEP and UP Aniual Work Plan and Budget Review Processes
Review of DPEP supervision activities and reports
Review of DPEP maniagemiient arrangements
Team:      Education Advisor (NDO)
National Consultant (NDO)
Proculement Specialist (NDO)
Disbursement Specialist (NDO)
Local Architect (ConsLultalit)
Interinational Techiilcal Consultants (as needed)
Donor      Participation by resident statt of UNICEF and
Collab-    European Comiiity (EC), and International conIsultants
oration    as chosenl by collaborating donors
Continuing Resident Mission limplementation Support through field missions, with
and intemnational conisultants as needed.
Fourth Proiect Year. 1997-98
October   Mission schedtile and focus as detelrinLIed by previous years' review of supervision effectiveness.
January    Mid-term project review.



- 264 -
Annex 16
Page 6
Objectives: Review of progress on implementation and against indicators of development objectives.
Project restructuring as needed.
Teanm:     Education Advisor (NDO)
National Consultant (NDO)
Procurement Specialist (NDO)
Disbursemiient Specialist (NDO)
Chief (SA2PH)
International Technical Consultants (as needed)
Continuing Resident mission staff shifts focus to DPEP expansion states and districts.
Fifth-Seventh Proiect Years
To be deterinined on the basis otf project mid-terml review.



- 265 -
Annex 17
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Monitoring Report Format
1.    All DPEP sub-projects (national, state and district) would report on progress
every three months. Receipt of completed reports by the DPEP Bureau would be a
condition of advance of funds. The basic schedule for reporting and advances would
be:
June        -      First advance of 50 percent of approved annual
expenditures
September   -     Submission of Quarterly Progress Report
November   -       Submission of Quarterly Progress Report
December   -      Advance of second annual fund release, amount
determined by progress
March       -      Submission of Quarterly Progress Report
May         -      Submission of Quarterly Progress Report
2.    In addition to the quarterly Progress Reports, a summary annual report would
be prepared in December for the previous calendar year's activities.
3.    The initial format to be used for the quarterly Progress Report is attached.
This would be modified periodically as need.



- 266 -
Annex 17
Page 2
DPEP Six Month Progress Report
Narrative Report
I.    Summary of Activities Undertaken Since the Last Report
a.    Activities under the annual work plan continued from last
reporting period.
b.    Activities initiated under the annual work plan
c.    Additional, unplanned activities undertaken
II.    Highlights of Activities (especially notable accomplishments)
III.   Problems Encountered and Solutions Undertaken or Proposed
IV.   Activities planned for the next reporting period
a.    as per work plan
b.    others -- provide explanation and rationale
Statistical Report
Forms as attached should be completed and appended to each report.



- 267 -
Annex 17
Page 3
FORM 1: DPEP Activity Report
Subcomponent Name (State, District, National Component):
Date of this report:
Name of Responsible Officer:
A4tivities for the Year as           Target             Achievements
appraved by DPEP Bureau for          Completion         to Date
the sub-pwjects Annual Plan (list   Dates
al activities) 
_     _                                    _I_r_                                   _--
______________________   __________   _______________________T________



- 268 -
Annex 17
Page 4
FORM 2: DPEP Activities to be Added/Droroed in Annual Work Plan
Subcomponent Name (State, Dlstrict, National Component):
Date of this report:
Name of Responsible Officer:
A00t D rto (for                Drop      Eplanaion and rationae                   Budget
originally planned activity, use  or                                              I ;lications
same words)                    Add?                                               in Laldis
additional
(reduced)
;       - ;0  :t 0 Xl 0t;;000;i;;|: t00  :0;-;  td 00000 t   :l   :| :0t:\t:000 dtoa



- 269 -
Annx 17
Page 5
FORM 3: DPEP Fund Advance Report Summary
Subcomponent Name (State, District, National Component):_
Date of this report:
Name of Responsible Ofricer:
Amount                Date       Amount
Received   Source     Reccived    Expended        Comments
_L           _   _a__          f                    _    _   _    _    _   _    _    _   _
rupees)



- 270 -
Annex 17
Page 6
FORM 4: DPEP Expenditure by Activity
Subcomponent Name (State, District, National Component):
Date of this report:
Name of Responsible Officer:
Adic as stin in         Non-       Recunent       _ 
amtual wk plan.0 If    recurrent              TOTAL
the activities added,    (lakhs    (lakhs     (lIkhs
explain                 rupees)    rupees)    rupees)     COMMENTS



- 271 -
Annex 17
Page 7
FORM 5: DPEP Expenditure by Category
Subcomponent Name (State, District, National Component):
Date of this report:
Name of Responsible OMcer:
|- -  'e-                                                    -    - 
Amt
Al       a - first six  .pet firat               next 6
Calxgoty                                       At ,b$a* s px MwffeS DM*#i  mon       . Coawneuw
Investment Costs
Civil works
Fumiture
Equipment
Vehicles
Books
Local consultants
Trafining costs (include
TA/DA)                      =          =            =             =_=
Workshops and
seminars
Awareness campaigns
subtotal
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of additional
staff
Consumables
Teaching materials
Contingency at
district/block/ school
level
Vehicle OCM
Civil works maintenance
Honoraria
TOTAL



- 272 -
Annex 17
Page 8
FORM 6: DPEP Additional Staff Appointments
Subcomponent Name (State, District, National Component):
Date of this report:
Name of Responsible Officer:
.  NXi of          _:
_________________           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I   Num ber  of
Ca ry of Staff            __ :,   ,       i
State Project Director
etc.                                7
FORM 7: DPEP Procurement Actions
Subcomponent Name (State, District, National Component):
Date of this report:
Name of Responsible Officer:
Po' ALL PCUR         ENACTONS                      P  LFOR CAL OR INTORNATIONAL
COMPETMVE BIDDING
Proces Used       Vtlue
Item       o hpg 0          .of
Procured   o rate contract    paDate
(number   o LEB             (lakhs    bate        Tender    Date of
Of UnIts)    o ICB          rupees)    Cpod   Pepated   Award          Comments
I_-                                                ~
_                     _z                                 7_



- 273 -
Annex 17
Page 9
FORM 8: DPEP Claims of Reimbursement for Eligible Expenditures
Subcomponent Name (State, District, National Component):_
Date of this report:
Name of Responsible Officer:
Date           Claim        J  _                                            - _
submitted      Number         Value (laks tupees)    Comments






- 275 -
Annex 18
Page 1
INDIA: District Primary Education Program
Selected Documents in Project Files
A. GENERAL REPORTS, STUDIES AND DATA COLLECTIONS
A-1     Aggarwal, Yash (1992). Education and Training in India: A Status Review.
New Delhi: National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration.
A-2     Aggarwal, Yash and Sarika Sibou (1992). Educating Scheduled Castes.
New Delhi: National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration.
A-3     Kurrien, John (1992). Providing Basic Education for Poor Girls and
Women in India: Issues and Prospects. Pune: Centre for Learning
Resources.
A-4     Ministry of HuLmlan Resource Development (1992). Development of
Educationi in India 1990-92. New Delhi: Ministry of Human Resource
Development.
A-5                                              (1993). Selected Educational
Statistics 1992-93. New Delhi: Ministry of Human Resource Development.
A-6     --------------------------------------(1993). Education for All: The Indian
Scene. New Delhi: Ministry of Human Resource Development.
A-7     --------------------------------------(1993). Learning Without Burden Report
of the National Advisory on Improving the Quality of Learning While
Reducing the Burden on Students. New Delhi: Ministry of Human Resource
Development.
A-8     --------------------------------------(1993). Report of the CABE Committee on
Decentralized Management of Education. New Delhi: Ministry of Human
Resource Development.
A-9     National Council of Education Research and Training (1992). Fifth All-
India Educational Survey. Volumes I and II. New Delhi: NCERT.
A-10    National Institute of Educationial Planning and Administration (1993).
Development of Education in India 1990-92. New Delhi: Department of
Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development



- 276 -
Annex 18
Page 2
A-11    Nayar, Usha (1991). UNESCO Sponsored Study on Universal Primary
Educationi of Rural Girls in India. New Dellhi: National Couincil of
Educational Research and Training, 1991.
A-12    Raza, Moonis, Aijazuddin Ahmad, and Sheel C. Nuna (1990). School
Education in India: The Regional Dimension. New Delhi: National Institute
of Educational Planning and Administration.
A-13    Tilak, Jandhalaya B.G. (1991). Financing Education in India - A Review
of Trends. Problems and Prospects. National InstitLute of Educationial
Planning and Administration. October, 1991.
B. PROJECT PROPOSALS AND PLANS
B-I      Department of Education, Government of India. District Primary Education
Programme: The National Component. April, 1994.
B-2     Government of Assam. District Primary Educationi Programme. Revised
State Comiponent Plan. April 7, 1994.
B-3     -------------------. District Priimary EdLucation Programmile. Civil Works
Manual. April 7, 1994.
B-4     Darrang District DPEP Core Committee. District Primary Education
Programme. Revised District Plans With Work Plan for 1994-95. April 7,
1994.
B-S     Dhubri District DPEP Core Committee. District Primary Education
Programme. Revised District Plans With Work Plan for 1994-95. April 7,
1994.
B-6      Karbi Anglong DPEP District Core Committee. District Primary Education
Programme. Revised District Plans With Work Plan for 1994-95. April 7,
1994.
B-7     Morigaon DPEP District Core Committee. District Primary Education
Programme. Revised District Plans With Work Plan for 1994-95. April 7,
1994.
B-8      Department of Primary Education, Government of Haryana. District
Primary Education Pro2ramine. State Level Interventions. April 8, 1994.



- 277 -
Annex 18
Page 3
B-9      -----------------------------------------------------. District Primary Education
Prograimimie. Civil Works Manual. May, 1994.
B-10     Hisar District Primary Educationi Committee. District Primary Education
Programme. April 8, 1994.
B-1 I    Jind District Primary Education Coinmittee. District Primary Education
Programme. April 8, 1994.
B-12     Kaithal District Primary Education Committee. District Primary Education
Programme. April 8, 1994.
B-13     Sirsa District Primary Education Commiittee. District Primary Education
Programme. April 8, 1994.
B-14     Department of Public Instruction, Governmient of Karnataka. District
Primary Education Programme. State Interventions. April, 1994.
B- 15    ---------------------------------------------------------. District Primary Education
Programme. Civil Works Manual. April, 1994.
B-16     Belgaumn DPEP District Core Team. Kittur Rani Chennamma - District
Prinary Education Project. April, 1994.
B-17     Kolar DPEP District Core Team. District Primary Education Programme -
District Plan. April, 1994.
B-18     Mandya DPEP District Core Team. District Primary Education Programme
- District Plan. April, 1994.
B-19     Raichur DPEP District Core Team. District Primary Education Programlme
- District Plan. April, 1994.
B-21     Department of General Education, Government of Kerala. DPEP Kerala
State - State Interventions. April 8, 1994.
B-22     -----------------------------------------------------. DPEP Kerala State - Civil
Works Manual. April 8, 1994.
B-23     Kasargode DPEP Core Team. District Primary Education Programme -
Kasargode District. April 8, 1994.



- 278 -
Annex 18
Page 4
B-24     Malappuram DPEP Core Team. District Primary Education Programmiie -
Malappuraimi District. April 8, 1994.
B-25     Wayanad DPEP Core Team. District Primary Education Programme -
Wayanad District. April 8, 1994.
B-26     Departmenlt of School Educationi, Govermiienit of Maharaslitra. District
Primary Education Prograiirmiie - State Project Report. April, 1994.
B-27     ---------------------------------------------------------. District Primary Education
Programme - Civil Works Manual. April, 1994.
B-28     Aurangabad District Project Planning Corn mittee. District Primary
Education Programmlle - District Aurangabad. April, 1994.
B-29     Latur District Project Planning Commiiittee. District Primary Education
Programnie - District Latur. April, 1994.
B-30     Nanded District Project Planning Committee. District Primary Education
Programme - District Nanded. April, 1994.
B-31    Osinanabad District Project Planning Committee. District Primary
Educationi Programiime - District Osmaniabad. April, 1994.
B-32     Parbhani District Project Planling Commilittee. District Primary Education
Programmne - District Parbhani. April, 1994.
B-33     Departmnent of Ele m entary EdLucationi, Govern mient of Tamil Nadu. The
District Primary Educationi Programme - State Level Interventions, April,
1994.
B-34     ------------------------------------------------------------. The District Primary
Education Programme - Civil Works Manual. April, 1994.
B-35     DharmapLiri District DPEP Planninig Committee. The District Primary
Education Programmile - Dharmapuri District.
B-36     South Arcot District DPEP Planning Committee. The District Primary
Education Programme - South Arcot District.
B-37     Thiruvannamlai Sambuvarayar District DPEP Planning Committee. The
District Primary Education Programme - Thiruvannamalai Sambuvarayar
District.



- 279 -
Annex 18
Page 5
C. PROJECT PREPARATION STUDIES
C-1      Department of Teacher Education and Special Education, NCERT.
Baseline Assessmenit Study of Three Districts in Assam. N.K. Jangira,
Principal Investigator. New Delhi, 1994.
C-2      ------------------------------------------------------------. Baseline Assessment
Study of Four Districts in Haryana. N.K. Jangira, Principal Investigator.
New Delhi, 1994.
C-3      --------------------------------------------------------. Baseline Assessment
Study of Three Districts in Maharashtra. N.K. Jangira, Principal
Investigator. New Delhi, 1994.
C-4      National Institite of Educationlal Planninig and Administration. Baseline
Assessment Study Karnataka. 4 volulnes: Belgaulll, Kolar, Mandya,
Raichur. Y. Aggarwal, Prinicipal Investigator. New Delhi, 1994.
C-5      The New Concept Consuiltancy Services. District Primary Educatioll
Project - Baseline Surveys of Three Districts of Tamil Nadu. India. V.
Rainakrishnan, Principal Investigator. New Delhi, 1994.
C-6      Varghese, N.V. Baseline Assessment Study: Kerela. New Delhi: National
Institute of Educational Planning and Administration. January, 1994.
C-7      Department of Non Formlal Educationi anid Educationi of SC/ST, NCERT.
District Primary Education Prog:rammille - Tribal Study Synthesis Report. C.
J. Daswani, Principal Investigator. New Delhi, April, 1994.
C-8      Bjerregaard, Donna. Analysis of Tribal Strategies: District Primary
Education Programme. World Bank, Processed, April, 1994.
C-9      Department of Women's Studies, NCERT. District Primary EdLucation
Programme Gender Studies Report. Usha Nayar, Principal Investigator. 16
Volumes. New Delhi, April, 1994.
C-10     Cohen, Philip. Sector StuLdy on Textbook Provision. World Bank.
Processed, April, 1994.
C-1 1    National Council of EdUcational Research and Training. Study on the
Design. Production and Distribution of Instructionlal Materials. C.N. Rao,
Principal Investigator. Six Reports. Assam, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala,
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. New Delhi, January, 1994.



- 280 -
Annex 18
Page 6
C-12     Departmenit of Teacher Education and Special Educationl, NCERT.
Training Needs and Motivation of Primuary School Teachers. N.K. Jangira,
Principal Investigator. New Delhi, April, 1994.
C-13    National Institute of Educationial Planning and Adminiistration. State
Finances for Education. Six Reports: Assam, Haryana, Karnataka,
Kerala, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadui. New Delhi, January, 1994.



IBRD 25748R
_31'                         75'                                           76'                                            77-                          31'
I N DIA A
DISTRICT PRIMARY                                                                             'A
EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                       CA                              !
HARYANA
r-n! ) rL.y.it
DPEP DISTRICTS                                                                                   YMNAmboks  Y N AG
/AMBALA                  NAGAR
*       DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                 (:, 
)      STATE CAPITAL                                                            ,- -                   Yamuno
30,                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30'
-30  *^* j                             *'A            t KURUKSHETRAr
4   |  t  g                          K    AIT H            A~~~~~~~~KATHAL    JS        
4pPonipa
-29                 t_                     _ t  | __ (  r_   s-_  ~~~~~~~~~PAIPA ONPAT
)        I -PokT
-Sonipo
Rohtak
Bhiwani<-<"  _
BH IW ANI                        ROHTA          GURGAAR O H T A KB
B HI WA     II
?    n r-- t-" ,' '   J . -,- Gurgaon  \)  *
ho          ,'  RREWARI   ,
t  v>              ~~~~~~~~Rewocrj  :         
jA                                                        FARIDABAD 
28 0                      KILOMETERS                   0                4                                                    1                        282
0     ~~~~~~ 50                           100                                                                       \-s
0                      3 0                      6 0                                                                                       ,
MILES                    6
The boundaries, colors, denominations                                                               i
ond any other informotion shown on
this map do not imply, on the part of
The World Bonk Group, ony judgment
on the legal status of any territory, or
ony endorsenent or acceptonce of
such boundories.
750                                        76,                                             77'
SEPTEMBER 1 994t






IBRD 25749
74                                                                 76                                                                  78
INDIA I A
DISTRICT PRIMARY
-18  EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                              Bida*)
KARNATAKA
Gulbarga
(     GLULBARGA             *                        DPEP DISTRICTS
ir .' >,;.s~9i   8opur             '0 )                                          s        DISTRICT CAPITALS
BIJAPUR                                                ~~~~~~~3STATE CAPITAL
_ ,}'/ / ~~ > i BIJAPUR                                           7 'n_A
\ ---   tr                              <                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rotchur* g
I,-          '-5-X                                           
C.   RWLGAUM                 I'                                             _-'                                                      6
.1 L9  G A                                                                                                                      16'-
16                   /                    g     -_         ->  .2             RAICHUR          /
ODharwod                  t
6         N                                ~~~~~~~~N\
DHARWAD                                         ellIaryj
--$  R   o^ BELLARY
Korwar*        UTTARA                                                KIiL130
KANNADA           /                                           '0KOMTS1 
_~~~~ ~ ~                        /                               _________-  _________
N)   \\                  /        \0                                                40               80
_ '> "_ _ CHITRADURGA               ,
' SHIMOGACh.trodurgo                                                                 ML
14'                      ~S5himogoo                                -/                    -"',             ,,'
N     ,__                          -r -'->'
/)'  4  ,      TUMKUR            t    "          KOLAR
/  CHIKKAMAGLORE I                '             Tumkur*
s   Chikkomoglore-       I                               N
DAKSHINA                                     N t  H              Bangolore,
DAKSHIN       N    jHassan                     -.         N
KANNADA                      HS   N    r                        I BANGALORE
Mongolore                    H A S S A N
MANDYA r
Mercora,)
KODAG                      Mysore                                          The boundorpes, colors,
/    othermnformotion show-
12'                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MYSORE                 on tlis map do not
The Wor/ld Bank Group,
ony' 1ud7menf on the legal
status of any territory,
or ony' endorsement
or occeptonce of such
b oundorfes
741'                                                              76                                                      78
mAY 199A






IBRD 25750
76-                                                  77
Kasorogo4 ..-       f   k'L j
-1 2               KASARAGOD                                                                                          I I N  D I A
DISTRICT PRIMARY
EDUCATION PROJECT
-1  CANNANORE                                                                             KERALA
*Connonore            _
'   WAYANAD
N                                                        [     J,  |   | DPEP DISTRICTS
KOZHIKODE   /t 1
" 1                                                 *        DISTRICT CAPITALS
 fx3    STATE CAPITAL
Kozhikode/' --j
MALAPPURAM ,_
' Mahppuram ''
PALGHAT
->_            O __ _ ,_ _   *Palghrat
'                                  IS  
C                     :
T,ichur   \      
-10,~~~                                                                                                                                               I 0
ERNAKULAM    ,                              C                                        10
* Ernokulom         I
_ _      C_t    __       P,en.ve
N              !
KOTTAYAM
* Kottoyam          I
Alleppey,       N                     ' _
ALLEPPEY-        PATHANAMTHITTA   (
KILOMETERS                                                              Quilon QUILON                                                          9
o                   50                    1 00                                                   ,\_                   ,)
0                25                50                                                                                1
MILES                                                                          TRIVANDRUM
The boundaries, colors, denominations ond any other information                                     Trivandrum                _)
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal status of ony territory, or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
76M    1 99
MAY 1994






1          7~         ~         ~~~3  '     ,75                                6.                                           8'                                            08
,-   D H U L E           2;sg\>
g J           @,             v        /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A MR AV A TI                                  B      pUlw 3H A NDA R A
-21-                                                      >>G                                                                                        N AG P UR    L                               21
g_      Dhole 2>              Jo~~~~J LGAON  /k         7         {              Aroal)-WARDHA  tt                                           L)
;             (             R  rt >>[\\)))  3~~~~ULDHANA   )>>                                       *        \                         -        2*
N A S I K                                                  ulhn              AOA                        oomo                 / 
(  t J<     -    /      {~~~~ |     .      \        :         t5_+      YAVATMAL  ~~~~~<           CHANDRAPUR    (Grcio 
-20-                                                        ol  AURANWJ< -r-D                                                                                                                    h  20-
<   {            lV6ebAa-d-W  JALNA  s                /x                                                     C,dopr ve
i J/\- ( <<Cd>} 1 < ) _8 g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GAZRHCHIROLII.
:           3~~~Ja ~     AHMEDNAGAR                     ~                          __r                                                                     :. 
*Thon-          )           _Z                                              o              |           NANDED       .                    
80MdAYt3 Iv g g < d>5LL<\r ~~~~~~B E E DJ 9
:RATGADH[         rue                                 P                         <
'-~~~~~~~                         ~     ~~~ ~~~~~~~ A                       T_  U 9 ( >S     R 
-ld-  - /  t    ;> vg  ~~~--9   v   ~~ Osrnonobud   \       *                                                       |~  N D I A18
z~~~~~~~~ \A T SAA R A (<t>O4M<DISTRICT PRIMARY
' storo s S O ~5-LA PU R r
)   '  -11e'   '   t                     *Solput/g-'uEDUCATION  PROJECT
"RATNAGIRI(t_C5//~45,#! MAHARASHTRA
17            ,                                 A N\>  G L I'_ ,( 
;  Retnogirit   <)   S A N G L I   J                                                                   r        | DPEP DISTRICTS                     17-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPDITRITS1 
Q      i           ,1~~~~~~~ Koh.pu rr-                                                                                                            DISTRICT CAPITALS
t:   z   /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y   -                                                                        @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE CAPITAL
t_-KOLHAPUR,,, ' 
SINDHUDURG )           ^
-16-                        *K.d.1                                    I           I; 51010KIOERSThe boundories, colors, denominot-ons and any othe-mrFormot,on
*~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~r-                      T                   I                                shown on this map cdo not ,mply, on the part of The Wordd Bank Group,      _
z                                      /                                0                 5'0                1 00 MILES               any judigment on the legal status of ony territory, or any endorsement  
>                                     {-7 /or acceptanceof such boundaries                                                                                                                              i
~0           73'                    7\ 75                                           76'                     7 7                    73                    7 9                     8 0 






IBRD 25752
I                I                                  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  . 
77                                  78'                                 79-                                80'
I N D I A
DISTRICT PRIMARY
EDUCATION PROJECT
TAMIL NADU                                                                    .*. "- -'                              Madra
C.                                      '~~~~~~~..  ~~~13'
Vellore   '-<-     CHENGALPATTU
DPEP DISTRICTS                 *                                    AMBEDKAR               tK- Knchipuram
DISTRICT CAPITALS          .      \   C. ,
(3      STATE CAPITAL
THIRUVANAMALAI 
_.~ _  '    DHARMAPURI
KILOMETERS
0              50              100                          *Dharmapur'
12                    30              60                                                                                                            12-
MILES                                   - 
,  #   \-   ,SOUTH ARCOT 
z   /                        I                                 \  _E~~~~~*~1e                  Cuddaborg1
-]         v~~Salem          1 
NILGIRIS          V                ->       A           SALEM
J, Udago.arndalam                           -m.ji
*0~~~            -~   P ERIYAR                                             --0
'-, -"  >) ~~~TIRUCHCHIRAPPALLI
COIMBATORE   2                   I                                                                                      (b
\ 2 > ! tv ~~~~~~~~~Tiruc                        :POlirop1>X 
gi,}        sE   ,~~~--"4           ) t,,--                                      THANJAVUR                        (
I                                               IJ->     ~     /~
\.                JANNA                              -)                 Puduk&ottoi
...  ",                      *Dindigul   '       PUDUKKOTTAI
'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O "u' \ ,
MADURAI J        duro   ~      PASUMPON          _'                                                    1
(    J    MADURAI   -\  -_    *Sivagong,-j -1
*evirudunagar    'L---                                               '.
,   KAMARA~JAR                g                
*, _ RIj   r1~                   JRAMANATHAPU                                   I                              9
/ 1 2-X ,<_ < \ / ~~Ramanathopu-ram \
-91                                  L-            * CHIDAMAA                v                                                                        q  c-
NELLAI             Tuicorinn                 G  u    I       f
\KATTABOMMAN U
a \        '        Ti - _veli*y- sX     HT,
M a n n a r /
Tho boundaries, colors, denominations
ond any other informofion shown on
this mop do not imply, on th, port of
The World Bank Group, ony judgment
KA   IYAKUMARI'                                    on the legol status of any territory, or
iKfO;C il*    \ -                      any ndorsmone ntor accptance of
such boundaries.
77                                 786                                 79'                                80'
MAY 1994



