                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 25266

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-26610)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 180 MILLION

                                       TO

                                     INDIA

                                     FOR A

                      DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT




                                 December 18, 2003




Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective March 1994)

              Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
                        Rs. 1 = US$ .031
                       US$ 1 = Rs. 32
         At the end of the project US$1 = Rs. 45


                     FISCAL YEAR
                  April 1     March 31

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AWPB        Annual Work Plan and Budget
BAS         Baseline Assessment
BRC         Block Resource Center
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CRC         Cluster Resource Center
CSS         Centrally Sponsored Scheme
DfID        Department for International Development (UK)
DIET        District Institute of Education and Training
DISE        District Information System for Education
DPEP        District Primary Education Program
DPEP I      District Primary Education Project
DPO         District Project Office
EC          European Commission
ECE         Early Childhood Education
EdCiL       Educational Consultants India Limited
EEB         Elementary Education Bureau
EMIS        Educational Management Information System
GOI         Government of India
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICDS        Integrated Child Development Scheme
IDA         International Development Association
IED         Integrated Education for the Disabled
JRM         Joint Review Mission
MAS         Mid-term assessments
MHRD        Ministry of Human Resource Development
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NCERT       National Council of Education Research and Training
NEP         National Education Policy
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NIEPA       National Institute of Education Planning and Administration
NSDART      Lal Bhadur Shastri National Academy of Administration
PRI         Panchayati Raj Institution
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
SASHD       South Asia Human Development Sector

SC             Scheduled Caste
SCERT          State Council of Educational Research and Training
SIDA           Swedish International Development Agency
SIEMAT         State Institute of Educational Management and Training
SIS            State Implementation Societies
SMC            School Management Committees
SSA            Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan
SPO            State Project Office
ST             Scheduled Tribe
TAS            Terminal Assessments
TSG            Technical Support Group
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
UEE            Universal Elementary Education
UP             Uttar Pradesh
UPBEP          Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project
VEC            Village Education Committee

                Vice President:     Praful C. Patel
             Country Director:      Michael F. Carter
      Sector Director/Manager:      Charles Griffin/Michelle Riboud
           Task Team Leader:        Prema Clarke

                                            INDIA
                            DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Summary of DPEP projects and Key Performance Indicators                 33
Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution                                                 36

Project ID: P010464                                                  Project Name: DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION
Team Leader: Prema Clarke                                            TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 18, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-26610
    Country/Department: INDIA                                                             Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (63%); Sub-national government administration
                            (11%); Tertiary education (11%); Pre-primary education (9%);
                            Central government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Gender (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/11/1993                                     Effective: 03/28/1995                03/28/1995
     Appraisal: 03/09/1994                                         MTR: 06/30/1998                  09/28/1997
      Approval: 11/22/1994                                      Closing: 03/31/2002                 06/30/2003



     Borrower/Implementing Agency:         GOI/GOA; GOI/GOH; GOI/GOM; GOI/GOK; GOI/GOT; GOI/GOK
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                D. Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Heinz Vergin
Sector Director:                Charles C. Griffin                             Richard Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:             Prema Clarke                                   John Middleton
ICR Primary Author:             Prema Clarke


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
QAG Quality at Entry review not available at beginning of project. Assessment against QAG criteria made in the
text.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
At the time of project preparation, 48 percent of India's population was still illiterate and more than a
fourth of enrolled students dropped out before reaching Class 2 and nearly half before reaching Class 5.
Furthermore, disparities disproportionately affected girls and students from Scheduled Caste (SC) and
Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities. Quality was poor and planning and management in education was
inadequately developed due to the lack of attention given to primary education, and the dearth of
information and systematic research on education.

Education is a "concurrent" or shared responsibility of the central and state governments. In this
partnership, the central government's role is to set policy, stimulate innovation, and create a planning
framework. Up until 1986, the states were fully responsible for the financing and provision of primary
education. Since the introduction of the 1986 National Education Policy (NEP) and related Plan of Action
(1992), the central government is committed to financing a portion of development expenditure in this
sub-sector through Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) such as the District Primary Education Program
(DPEP). Although contributing only a fraction of public expenditure in the sub-sector, the DPEP has
initiated significant reform in primary education in India.

The urgency and importance of providing universal primary education, driven by the 1990 Jomtien
conference on 'Education for All' and the NEP, represented the contextual landscape for the development of
the DPEP by the Government of India (GOI). The DPEP is essentially constituted in a set of broad
guidelines for reform in primary education. The "Guidelines" were built upon at least ten years of earlier
small-scale projects and experiments in basic education funded by both the government and external donors
(DfID, Netherlands, SIDA, and UNICEF). In 1993, IDA funded the forerunner of DPEP, the state-based
Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project (UPBEP). The multi-state District Primary Education Project
(DPEP I) in six states operationalized the DPEP Guidelines and is the first among a series of projects
implemented in 18 states and about 270 districts in India (A summary of DPEP projects are in Annex 8).
The districts chosen were the low female literacy ones and the number covered by DPEP represents about
half the total number of districts in India.

The development objectives comprised national, state and district level objectives. As this was the first
project in primary education in India of such magnitude, emphasis was placed on building capacity for
project implementation at all three levels. National objectives include: (i) the establishment of a fully
functional DPEP Bureau in the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) for overall project
management; (ii) the provision of technical assistance to states and districts for implementing project
activities; and (iii) the setting up of a fully operational Educational Monitoring Information System
(EMIS). State objectives include: (a) the establishment of registered State Implementation Societies (SIS)
to receive and manage project funds; and manage project implementation; (b) support to state level
technical institutions to manage textbook revisions; and (c) the development of inservice training for
teachers. District objectives include: (a) the establishment of district project offices (DPOs); (b) the
strengthening of District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs) and the provision of inservice
training; (c) reduce disparities in access among gender and social groups to less than five percent; (d) the
improvement of learning achievement by 25 percent over baseline; and (e) the reduction of dropout to less
than 10 percent. Attention to children with disabilities was not part of DPEP I; however, subsequent DPEP
projects did include the education of these children in the development objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:
NA




                                                        - 2 -

  3.3 Original Components:
  This project had an integrated and cascading design in which national institutions supported the project
  states, which supported the districts, which in turn provided direct support to schools and their
  communities. This is evident in the components that constitute the project. The
  components/sub-components were designed to strengthen existing institutions in the context of ongoing and
  well-understood policies and programs. The importance of the intended outcomes of improving the quality
  and attractiveness of schools, especially for girls and children from disadvantaged communities including
  the ST and ST, are reflected in the allocation of almost 83 percent of the project funds to the third
  component, which focus on improving access and quality.

                                                     Components
  1. Building national institutional capacity US$23.4 million
  2. Building state institutional capacity US$28.4 million
  3. Improving quality and access in primary education US$258.7 million

Building national institutional capacity: This component provides for:
l Establishing and supporting the DPEP Bureau responsible for the flow of funds, and for the development of
  policy and program units for project management and implementation.
l Constituting a General Council to provide directions for policy and to facilitate center-state coordination.
l Ensuring staff continuity by appointing the project development team members as the initial key staff in the
  DPEP Bureau.
l Providing technical services for appraisal of state and district sub-projects, conduct of supervision missions,
  implementation progress monitoring and setting in place an information system; supervision of finance and
  procurement, civil works, pedagogical improvement, training in planning and management, programs for ST
  education and conduct of research and evaluation studies.
l Establishing an innovations facility by the name of "Fund for Innovation" to support innovative practices at the
  state and district levels.
l Support for international cooperation programs.


Building state institutional capacity: This component provides for:
l Participation of six states (Assam, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharastra and Tamil Nadu). Each state to
  provide 15 percent counterpart funds.
l Strengthening capacity in five areas: (i) program management; (ii) improving textbook development and
  production; (iii) improving teaching and inservice training; (iv) improving educational planning, management
  and monitoring; and (v) improving educational research and evaluation.

Improving quality and access in primary education: This component provides for
l Project implementation in 23 districts in the six states.
l Building district institutional capacities through constitution of DPOs, strengthening DIETs and establishing
  new ones, and implementation of pilot projects for strengthening school supervision.
l Improving access through provision of approximately 470,000 student places created in new schools and
  classrooms and support for alternatives to formal schooling for isolated small communities and for working
  children.
l Improving learning achievement through enhanced inservice teacher training, use of improved learning materials
  and teaching aids; targeted interventions for girls and SC/ST students; and piloting early childhood education
  (ECE) programs.
l Reducing the number of dropouts by strengthening school/community organizations, improving school facilities
  and conducting awareness campaigns.


                                                        - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:
NA

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. At the time of project preparation, no formal Quality at Entry criteria
were available. However, the program can be assessed using the Quality Assurance Group's (QAG)
standards of looking at program design, its relationship to the overall strategies provided in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), and government priorities. Using this standard, quality at entry is rated
satisfactory for the following reasons: (i) solid country ownership of the program as indicated in the
national policies, increased central expenditure in the sub-sector, and GOI's role in the monitoring and
supervision of the program; (ii) the firm grounding of the project design in ongoing and well-documented
national policies, programs, processes and institutions, thereby ensuring government commitment to the
project; (iii) the focus on outcomes as attested to by the monitoring indicators and the development of
capacities for policy and program adjustments based on data and research built into the project; (iv) the
focus on the quality of education viewed in terms of student learning outcomes; and (v) the high degree of
integration with other donor-funded projects supporting the same policies and programs.

The project's objectives and components were well anchored in the Bank's CAS. The CAS stressed the
importance of human development interventions that increased literacy and education achievement. These
interventions included the stimulation of local demand for schooling and increases in the provision of
schools and teachers and the supply of appropriate inputs to improve learning outcomes with special
attention to girls. The CAS also recognized that "since the late 1980s, the most successful program of the
Bank has been in human development." This was reinforced by reference in the CAS to an Operations
Evaluation Department evaluation, which showed that human development projects "performed particularly
well in terms of outcomes, sustainability and institutional development." The project supported India's
ongoing education development policies and programs. The embeddedness of the project in the GOI's
DPEP Guidelines demonstrates the ownership of the project objectives by the central and the state
governments. The cascaded development of institutions at the national, state and district levels was
appropriate considering the status of educational planning and management at each of these levels. The
situational analysis of education portrayed clearly the constraints to achieving universal primary education
in the states and the links between project components and development objectives that addressed these
constraints.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory. The performance of the project with regard to the
development of national, state and district institutional capacities to manage and monitor the project can be
rated highly satisfactory. But in reference to the increase in access and learning achievement and reduction
in dropout, the project is only rated satisfactory. It is noted that girls' participation and learning have been
significantly addressed in the project.

National and state Objectives: Both national and state objectives to establish and strengthen national level
institutions to plan and manage the development of primary education in the states have clearly been
accomplished. At the national level, the DPEP Bureau, now called the Elementary Education Bureau (EEB)
in the MHRD, has guided and managed project implementation in all project states. A network of technical
assistance institutions has been established to understand, document and assess project activities, especially
focusing on classroom practice and community development. The EMISs are in operation across states in
districts covered by the project providing timely and comprehensive data on educational indicators. Similar


                                                        - 4 -

to the Bureau, well-staffed State Project Offices (SPO) supported by resource groups have efficiently
managed project activities across districts. Supervision reports convey the increased capacities of state
level technical institutions to plan and manage education.

District Objectives: Increased abilities to manage education, and improvement in retention, learning, and
access in education support the satisfactory rating of the project. The first objective involving the capacity
of districts to manage education has been achieved through the setting up of DPOs and the establishment of
sub-district level structures. Block Resource Centers (BRCs) and Cluster Resource Centers (CRCs) at the
sub-district levels, set up during the project period in all project districts, were crucial to the functioning of
schools. Ensuring the functioning of the district level technical institution, namely the DIET, has however,
only been achieved to some extent, as DIETs, being a part of a separate CSS, could not be influenced as
much in the project.

The second district level objective was to improve equitable access. DPEP I was expected to create
470,000 student places. These places included the rebuilding of dilapidated classrooms and schools,
accounting for about 4 percent of the enrollment at project commencement. The other half was meant for
increases in enrollment that would reduce disparities with regard to gender and caste. Student places
created through the construction of additional classrooms and schools in project districts are about 400,000
close to the target level. Total enrollment in DPEP I states has increased by about 285,000 or about six
percent. Based on the EMIS data collected from 1996, overall enrollment has increased for all categories of
students (Annex 8: Figure 4). Growth rate of girls' enrollment was seven percent. Substantial gains are
represented in the index of gender equity (proportion of girls enrolled relative to the population) and the
share of girls' enrolled to boys. About 95 percent of the districts have reached the DPEP goal of 95 percent
index of gender equity and the proportion of girls to boys increased from 45.6 percent to 47.8 percent over
the project period. SC enrollment increased by six percent and ST by 26 percent.

When enrollment in the DPEP I states over the project period is considered, there seems to be an increase
until mid-project and then a slight decrease towards the end of the project in some states (Annex 8: Figure
5). Significant progress has been made in Karnataka (24 percent) and to a lesser extent in Assam, Haryana
and Tamil Nadu (four to eight percent). Kerala and Maharastra register negative growth rates of six and
one percent respectively. There is no clear explanation for this decline at this point. Possible reasons
include demographic declines and increases in unaided private school provision. To get a better sense of
project impact, Jalan and Glinskaya (2002) use household data from the National Sample Survey (Round
50, 1993-94 and Round 55, 1999-2000) to evaluate the net impact of DPEP I compared to non-DPEP
districts on enrollment and completion. The study concludes that the project's net impact on enrollment was
positive, but much smaller than its gross impact. In addition, the rate of change was only slightly higher in
DPEP I versus non-DPEP districts in the same states and the project was limited in reducing social
disparities. Since the DPEP districts in the states were chosen precisely on the basis of low female literacy,
the results of comparison between DPEP and non-DPEP would need to be interpreted with caution.

The third objective was to improve learning by increasing achievement scores at least 25 percent over
baseline, and to ensure equity in achievement. When the average achievement scores of all states and
districts are considered, DPEP I has achieved substantial increases in learning achievement. Average
mathematics and language test scores increased over time for students in both Class 1 and Classes 3/4.
Three years of project implementation boosted scores 28 percent over the baseline in mathematics and 11
percent over the baseline in language for Class 1; 13 percent in mathematics and 19 percent in language for
Classes 3/4. An additional three years boosted scores 20 percent over the midterm level for both subjects at
Class 1 and, 45 percent in mathematics and 35 percent in language at Classes 3/4. Because the tests were
different, it is not possible to compile these percentage increases across the full six years of the project.


                                                       - 5 -

Improvement in learning achievement is also evident in the distribution of achievement scores in the
population of students tested (Annex 8: Figure 1). At the mid-term, three years into the project, the scores
were decidedly at the lower end of the distribution, while at the terminal assessment using the same tests,
they had shifted to the right.

Disaggregated results by district and target groups nonetheless reveal variability and wide ranges in scores
between gains for Class 1 and Classes 3/4, and across states and districts. District level scores range from
less than zero percent to gains of more than 25 percent (Annex 8: Figures 2 and 3). The project was able to
improve Class 1 scores more than that for Classes 3/4. While the project has reduced the gender gap in
achievement across districts to less than five percent, this was not fully achieved for SC and ST students.
The results for the ST students in particular are worthy of serious attention: they had the widest range of
scores, scoring up to 33 percent less than the other groups.

The fourth objective was to reduce dropout to below 10 percent. Here also, there is considerable variation
across districts and states and the overall objective was not met. However, one should acknowlege that
initial conditions related to dropout in targeted districts were higher than the national average of 50 percent.
Dropout has reduced to below 10 percent in the districts in Kerala only. In the districts in the states of
Haryana, Maharastra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, average dropout ranged from 20 to 40 percent, and in
Assam over 40 percent.

4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Building national institutional capacity (US$20.5 million)

Building national institutional capacity includes the strengthening of relevant institutions and the production
of specific outputs related to data collection, research, development and training at the national level.
Support to the national level centered on the DPEP Bureau consisting of a Project Development team that
performed the functions of appraisal, supervision, monitoring and evaluation --functions that, in earlier
projects, were assumed by the funding agencies. The policies and progress of the Bureau are reviewed by a
General Council (which include both political and bureaucratic leaders) and the DPEP Project Board acts
as a sanctioning body for activities, financing and staff appointments. The Bureau, a central, operational
element in the national ownership of the DPEP projects, did ensure continuity in the vision and role at the
national level vis-a-vis the states.

The project states received technical support from four national level institutions -- the National Council of
Educational Research and Training (NCERT), the National Institute for Educational Planning and
Administration (NIEPA), the Lal Bhadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (NSDART) and the
semi-autonomous Educational Consultants India Ltd. (EdCil). The team in the EdCil, which provided
support to DPEP was called the Technical Support Group (TSG). NCERT and NIEPA supplied prototypes
for various project activities according to project specifications, developed the EMIS and introduced
national assessment of student learning levels. The support received by the states and the literature and
studies produced suggest that NCERT, NIEPA, NSDART and EdCil were consistently involved in project
activities and have contributed effectively toward implementation.

The Bureau together with national level institutions have played a significant role in introducing states to
the different project activities such as textbook revision, inservice teacher training, and establishing and
training community support groups through workshops, seminars and in-state programs. Moreover, the
national team has supported states through the innovation facility, especially in developing the different
areas according to contextual persuasions and limitations.




                                                       - 6 -

The collection, maintenance and analysis of critical data related to education in the EMIS, grounded in the
District Information Systems for Education (DISE), is a major contribution of DPEP. Indeed, the DISE
have been introduced beyond the DPEP districts and now provide comprehensive information on education.
The numerous studies produced at the national and state levels also demonstrate the shift in educational
planning and policy making to a more empirical base. It is clear that a culture of collecting and data usage
has permeated all levels of the education system covered by DPEP, a desirable trend in any education
system. Even villages have begun to maintain databases in the form of Village Education Registers that are
updated every year.

International cooperation was intended to encourage collaboration and use of technical expertise of
institutions and individuals outside the country. Apart from organizing international seminars and
participating in a few international courses and conferences, the GOI decided against the full
implementation of this activity. This decision was based on the perceived limited impact of such
collaboration on project activity and implementation. It is questionable whether this approach to
international collaboration was reasonable.

2. Building state institutional capacity (US$24.7 million)

Improved planning and management: The semi-autonomous SISs that managed project implementation
and the flow of funds to the districts were crucial for the success of DPEP. The reason for using SISs was
the historical weakness of the state education departments and the proclivity of states to capture CSS funds
and not release them for use at lower levels. By intentionally bypassing the state finance departments, and
not commingling project funds with overall budgetary transfers to the states, DPEP effectively earmarked
central funds for the purposes for which they were intended. The Societies were by and large adequately
staffed over the course of the project though frequent staff transfers did affect project activities to some
extent. The DPOs efficiently managed project activities in the districts. DPEP implementation began with a
perspective plan covering the entire project period. Such long-range plans were not commonplace before
the project. The Annual Work Plans and Budgets (AWPBs), which define the annual activities of the
project, are participatory and based on district and state-level interaction and data analysis. Even though
the extent and quality of the plans are noted to be uneven across the states, DPEP has successfully
introduced at all levels the concept of reflective and deliberate planning towards reaching specific
outcomes.

State level technical assistance provided by the State Council for Education Research and Training
(SCERT) and the State Institutes for Educational Management and Training (SIEMAT), and the
involvement of DIETs at the district level have proven to be critical and will require concerted capacity
building and development in future programs. In all the states, the SCERTs have been directly involved in
the training of teachers and Village Education Committees (VECs) and textbook development and revision.
SIEMATs, established in DPEP for planning and management, are autonomous in some states and are a
part of the government in others. Assam, Haryana and Maharastra have established SIEMATs under the
government umbrella and in, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu the roles and functions of these
institutions are absorbed into the SPOs. The increasing tendency toward decentralization, where states are
assuming direct responsibility for the planning and management of education, suggests the need for further
strengthening of the SIEMATs in the areas of policy support and implementation analysis.

Improved textbook development and production: DPEP, which supported the textbook revision process
until the production of camera-ready copies, was responsible for a new approach to the development of
textbooks. Before the project, the production of textbooks for primary education rarely involved primary
schoolteachers and the larger community and the pilot testing of textbooks before final printing was not


                                                      - 7 -

common practice. In DPEP, textbook production included policy discussions, expert inputs, teacher inputs,
and field trials. Textbooks, based on the DPEP philosophy of child centered activity based learning, are
now much improved with more illustrations, enhanced print fonts and better quality of paper. Attention is
paid to removing gender and caste bias in textbook content and the curriculum is made more appropriate
for the grade level. The next step in such a process should be to evaluate the new curricula and textbooks
against standards for quality instruction along with the insights of teachers and students who have used
them.

Improved education research and evaluation: DPEP has indeed brought to center stage the importance of
research and evaluation in primary education, similar, to secondary and higher education. More than 180
studies have been completed over the course of the project. Concern, though, has been expressed that
monitoring, research and evaluation undertaken under DPEP could have been further strengthened. In
absolute terms, especially as regards the quality of the production and how it is used, this may well be the
case. This issue, however, needs to be seen in evolutionary terms. In this light, it appears (i) that clear
progress has been made, but (ii) that concern for the quality and usability of data and research needs to be
continually addressed.

3. Improving quality and access in primary education US$270.4 million

Civil works: Construction of new schools and refurbishment of existing ones is an important contribution
of DPEP. The civil works targets were revised, based on the need for physical infrastructure and,
correspondingly, the ceiling for civil works, which was initially 24 percent of the total project cost was
raised to 33 percent. Again, guided by nationally organized cross-state workshops and the innovation fund
available in the project, low cost and creative designs and construction were introduced across DPEP I
states, altering conventional orientations to civil works. BRCs and CRCs were constructed using project
funds. Creative child-friendly classrooms were built largely by communities trained in construction and
monitored by a team of engineers employed by the SPOs. More thought could have been given to the
construction of classrooms appropriate for the school population of the particular school. Though the
project has achieved targets set at project commencement and these resulted in a doubling of the facilities
available in the pre-project period, gaps still remain in the provision of toilets, drinking water facilities and
general infrastructure. These would require attention in the future.

Improving instruction: Improving instruction consisted of strengthening DIETs, the setting up of BRCs
and CRCs, providing systematic inservice training and the disbursement of Rs. 500 as grant to teachers for
the development of instructional aids. As mentioned earlier, the development of DIETs was more difficult
to achieve in the project. More recently, the Department responsible for DIETs at the national level in the
MHRD is now merged with the EEB and MHRD has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with
states to develop these institutions. Though the establishment of sub-district structures was left to the
decision of states, all DPEP I states have established BRCs and CRCs to assist in pedagogical renewal in
the project districts. In addition to providing between 3 to 20 days of training at DIETs and BRCs, regular
teacher support was initiated at the CRCs. CRC coordinators organized training, usually one day each
month and visited schools to observe and help teachers internalize and implement the new instructional
model. The training of teachers is a very significant part of DPEP. Teachers, who hitherto had few
professional development opportunities over the course of their whole teaching career, were now
undergoing at least one round of training per year.

The impact of training is visible in the friendlier teacher-student relationship evident in classrooms and the
reduced use of corporal punishment by the teachers. Teachers also make use of instructional aids,
constructed or purchased with the Rs. 500 grant. Beyond these aspects, state evaluations of classroom


                                                       - 8 -

practices show a range of impact on the traditional pattern of instruction that emphasized rote learning.
Some evaluations show that children ask more questions, teachers give more positive feedback, and
children receive individual attention. Others find prevalence of traditional, hierarchical teacher-student
relationships and teachers' behaviors that emphasize rote learning. Moreover, the improvements made so
far provide support to instruction in Classes 1 and 2, but teachers in Classes 3 and above need a deeper
understanding of teaching and learning. It could be said that inservice training's heavy emphasis on the
motivational dimensions and the use of instructional aids during training did not pay sufficient attention to
the development of literacy skills and acquisition of mathematical competency over the course of the school
year.

Developing community involvement: Community mobilization in DPEP involved the communication of the
importance of primary education through the media, print materials and mobilization activities and the
establishment of community level structures at the village level. The project supported training, technical
assistance, and funding to local education support organizations (VECs and Panchayati Raj
Institutions[PRIs]) and user groups (School Management Committees, Parent Teacher Associations, and
Mother Teacher Associations). Local organizations were trained to manage school construction, and to
support enrollment and student attendance in schools. VECs were given a grant of Rs. 2000 for purchasing
such items as furniture, play equipment and books. Parents and other adults now have a much greater
awareness of the importance of primary education for all children, and local leaders express specific goals
for improvement of primary education in their area. The efforts of VECs and user groups, which have
focused on enrollment thus far, could be expanded to target transition and school completion by students.

Early childhood development: The strategy adopted by DPEP I was one of convergence with the Integrated
Child Development Scheme (ICDS), which is the major program used by the project states for early
childhood development. DPEP provided funding for ICDS to extend the hours at these centers so that the
timings were better coordinated with school hours. In villages without ICDS, DPEP set up ECE Centers.
Overall coverage was limited and it will be important to scale up this component in the future.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic benefits: The higher levels of primary enrollment and school completion due to DPEP I will
increase the supply of primary educated labor to the economy as well as a strongly positive and statistically
significant effect on female labor force participation. In addition, it will increase the future supply of
secondary, college and technically educated labor, as some of the primary school children go on to
secondary education and above. Rates of return to investment in human capital are high in India A
simulation was done on alternative earning streams for DPEP students with five years of primary education
entering the labor market as adults (Annex 3). These earnings were analyzed in terms of expenditure per
student in DPEP to derive rates of return to the project. In the lowest case scenario, where earnings
increase by only Rs. 2,400 per year and a mere 15 percent of students benefit from the project, the rate of
return is over 9 percent. In the highest case scenario, where earnings increase by Rs. 3,600 per year and 25
percent of students are assumed to have benefited from the project, the rate of return rises to over 17
percent. In the central case, where earnings increase by Rs. 3,000 per year and 20 percent of students are
assumed to have benefited from the project, the rate of return is 13.3 percent. DPEP I clearly has the
potential to produce considerable future economic benefits. Further, these estimates of rates of return
should be seen as minimum, since the impact on human capital of children who go beyond primary are not
included. The actual impact of the project, if all these factors are taken into account, is likely to be
substantially higher and the return on the project correspondingly greater.

Social benefits: Externality benefits of education are also clearly evident in India. For instance, maternal
education has a powerful effect on reducing infant and child mortality through better ante-natal, neo-natal



                                                      - 9 -

and post-natal care, limiting family size and spacing births, and improving the utilization of maternal and
child health services in India. Govindasamy and Ramesh (1998) estimate that the probability of child
vaccination among primary educated mothers is about 142 percent greater than that among uneducated
mothers. Similarly, primary educated mothers are 74 percent more likely to treat their children for
water-borne diseases, and 32 percent more likely to utilize modern health care services for their children
resulting in lowering levels of morbidity and under-nutrition and promoting hygiene. Moreover, an educated
mother would support the education of her children, especially the girl child. Both public officials and
representatives of civil society repeatedly stated that the DPEP has contributed to a deep appreciation of
the value and importance of basic education, both in policy circles and at the grassroots levels.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The DPEP has strengthened a complex institutional fabric whose functions and structures vary across
states --one of the successes of DPEP. Overall, the institutional strengthening under the DPEP has
substantially increased the capacity of states to plan, manage and monitor the provision and quality of
primary education. Probably the clearest indicator of the institutional development impact of DPEP is that
much of the institutional network strengthened within DPEP is being scaled up as India moves into the new
flagship program for universal elementary education, called the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), to be
implemented across the country. The SSA, encompassing all CSSs, adopts most of the elements of DPEP
and is to be implemented in all Indian states and Union Territories. DPEP has focused attention on
institutions (SCERT and SIEMAT) at the state level that would support the planning and management of
education in the states. The institutional vacuum that existed at the sub-district level has been addressed
through the establishment of BRCs and CRCs and these centers have provided pedagogical support to
schools and communities. All states have formally adopted and established these sub-district level
structures in non-DPEP districts. At the village level, VECs and parent groups are revitalized and enthused
about the importance of education.

The culture of using data and studies to inform planning and policy is growing at all levels of the system.
At the national level, effective support is provided for the development of tools for management and
planning such as EMIS and achievement testing. At the state and district levels, the use of the EMIS has
spread beyond project districts. The relative plethora of data and studies associated with the DPEP and
analyzed in the report, A Review of Educational Progress and Reform in DPEP (Sipahimalani-Rao and
Clarke, 2003), attests to the project's commitment to the generation of critical and useable knowledge. This
wealth of studies gives rise to a paradoxical situation: on the one hand, the sheer amount of documentation
is almost overwhelming; on the other hand, there are the inevitable methodological issues and differences of
interpretation. Such a situation, where policymakers and program implementers who do not have the
'luxury' of working from one or a few 'definitive' studies is commonly found in the developed countries.
Both the state and national governments also recognize the limitations of the studies carried out and are
trying to put in place in the SSA, a system whereby institutions across the country are to be given the
responsibility for quality control of research.

The SSA at the district level, instead of being managed by a separate office, has become the responsibility
of district departments of education, which have their own culture of administration and management.
Some concerns remain, however. While the MHRD has recommended to the states that staff developed
under DPEP should, to the extent possible, be retained under the SSA for continuity and knowledge
transfer, this may not happen in all cases. Although the SIS are regarded as having proven their worth, an
artifact of establishing a dual administration is that certain critical issues remain un-addressed, the most



                                                      - 10 -

crucial issue here being the management of the teacher cadre. Some analysts feel that as the project did not
pay teachers' salaries (except when appointed under the project) the commitment of teachers to project
goals and ideals was limited. This issue will be addressed in the SSA at the district level through the
merging of project units with the departments of education. Questions have arisen in some quarters as to
whether DPEP created a parallel structure of institutions, which cannot be sustained. More analysis of this
situation needs to be undertaken. SSA has made a commitment to retain the structures and institutions for
the next ten years. This concern regarding parallel structures has thus diminished for the time being. The
question of whether states can finance DPEP interventions subsequent to the SSA can only be answered
after ten years.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Exogenous factors contributing to the success of DPEP include: (i) increased awareness of the importance
of education across the country and the continued discourse on ensuring education as a fundamental right,
which culminated in May 2002 with the 93rd Amendment to the Constitution ensuring education as a
fundamental right for children aged 6-14; and (ii) decentralization of authority to local governments
through the implementation of the Panchayati Raj Act, which provided statutory powers and authority to
assist in the management of education at the village level.

Unforeseen general elections in the country caused intervals of inactivity and less than satisfactory
disbursement and project implementation. Elections, normally held once in five years, took place three
times (1996, 1998, 1999) during the project period. General elections involved the deployment of teachers,
and state and district personnel for election duty thereby affecting scheduled project activities.

Specific to Kerala, there was a public protest against the joyful and activity-centered pedagogy introduced
in DPEP. This protest was orchestrated mainly by parents unfamiliar with and suspicious of the new
pedagogy, which did not foster rote learning and thereby would not sufficiently prepare their children for
the examination system. Though public sessions and the media helped to address the concerns of parents,
the alignment of any new pedagogy with the secondary school certification system will be crucial for future
programs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Leadership, ownership and availability of skilled personnel at all levels --national, state and district-- of
DPEP are the major factors contributing to the success of the project. To this must be added the flexibility
of the Bank project team and their ability to understand the importance of working with a project that was
truly home-grown. Counterpart funding was provided in a fairly timely fashion, which allowed project
implementation to proceed on schedule. More regularity in fund flows from the central government to the
states during the course of the project would however, have been helpful. The Bureau and TSG were highly
successful in generating information and building the capacity of states to plan and implement their
programs, particularly in the early years of the project. National project Guidelines were widely perceived
as useful although some reservations were expressed that they may have introduced some rigidities. More
depended on how skillful and effective a state or district was in operating the Guidelines.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Heavy reliance on using professionals from within the system contributed to the high degree of
internalization of the program's objectives and processes. The pedagogical renewal effort in DPEP
attempted to change embedded and deep-seated traditional instructional practices. Using only teacher
trainers from within the system could have limited the impact of such change as these individuals are
steeped in traditional pedagogy and were exposed to the new method only within the life of the project.


                                                     - 11 -

Further thought could be given to bringing about an optimal balance between the use of internal and
external change agents.

Focus on the teaching-learning process and student achievement helped maintain focus on the central
educational issue, which, of course, is all about learning. Both BRCs and CRCs and the achievement
testing helped maintain the operational focus at all levels throughout the system. More power, especially at
the district level, to deal with issues of teacher accountability in terms of curriculum coverage and
regularity in attendance could have helped to better address dropout and learning.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The estimated total cost of the project at appraisal was US$310.5 million, comprising of US$260.3 million
from IDA funds and US$50.2 million (or 15 percent of the total project cost) as counterpart funds from
the six state governments. The largest allocation of US$258.7 million was for improving quality and access
in primary education, while developing national institutional capacity and state institutional capacity were
allocated US$23.4 and US$28.4 million respectively. The original project, which was for seven years, was
extended by one year. The financial performance of the project was satisfactory. The project was able to
spend 93 percent of project funds leaving about US$18 million un-disbursed at project closing. This was
largely due to the devaluation of the rupee from Rs. 32 to a US dollar at project commencement to Rs. 45
at project closing. In effect the project did utilize the entire project cost at the original dollar rate.
Utilization under different categories was: 103 percent for civil work, 35 percent for goods, 68 percent for
training and consultants and 137 percent for incremental operating and maintenance costs. Over-budgeting
is evident in the case of goods, consultants and training. The low expenditure in consultants and training
category could be due to MHRD's decision to only partially implement the sub-component dealing with
international cooperation.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely. At the national level sustainability is evidenced by the scaling up of DPEP
into SSA, which will carry on and expand DPEP activities across the country and into upper primary
schools. SSA is clearly supported by the Constitutional amendment (2002) that ensures education as a
fundamental right. At the state level, commitment to sustainability is represented by the institutionalization
of the DPEP interventions through the expansion of DPEP elements into non-DPEP districts, which started
during the 12 month extension period and continued into the SSA-funded effort. The SSA does attempt to
provide a comprehensive plan for service delivery in elementary education by adopting the best practices of
DPEP, in addition to other CSSs.

To ensure sustainability of DPEP-initiated reform efforts in an SSA environment, structures and systems,
which have proven successful under DPEP such as SISs, have been retained for implementation by SSA.
At the districts level, in the SSA, project offices have been merged with the district departments allowing
for line departments to be introduced to the work culture of DPEP and to be able to address issues such as
the motivation and management of the teacher cadre at the district level. In addition, an Financial
Management manual is to be prepared and uniformly implemented across the country in the SSA. The
project's emphasis on decentralizing implementation authority to the district and sub-district levels and the
community involvement in reaching project goals have led to a new sense of ownership of primary schools
among parents and local leaders. This commitment and involvement at the local level are being sustained in
the SSA with its emphasis that planning be initiated at an even lower level than DPEP, at the habitation
level and consolidated at higher geographic and administrative levels.




                                                       - 12 -

Fiscal sustainability: While the central and state governments are committed to continuing the reforms
undertaken by DPEP in primary education, the sustainability of the program will depend on the capacity of
states to cover, under their own budget, the recurrent costs necessary to maintain the DPEP interventions in
the targeted districts, after project closing. With the introduction of the SSA program, which covers the
entire country and for which the central government will only provide 75 percent of the plan cost during the
period of the 10th plan (2002-2007), the fiscal burden on the states is further increased. At the same time,
SSA can provide ways to continue financing a number of interventions, which were supported by DPEP in
a cost-sharing mode. Under the 11th plan (2007-2012), the central government will continue to support the
program, decreasing its share to 50 percent of the program cost. In subsequent plan periods, the central
government is expected to maintain this level of funding until the goals of universal elementary education
are achieved.

States are required to pay their share of the cost from the non-salary segment of their education budgets,
which is a small part of the education budget, as between 95 to 97 percent of recurrent expenditure in
primary education is spent on salaries. Preliminary estimates of program cost and projected budgets show
that almost all DPEP I states will be able to sustain the program interventions with the assistance of the
SSA program. However, considering the higher counterpart funding required in the SSA, DPEP I states
with high economic levels will cover their share more easily than states with low economic levels. Initial
estimates show that the program costs included in the counterpart funding required of states for the SSA
with high per capita incomes (over Rs. 20,000) like Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharastra, and Tamil
Nadu will cover half of the states' non-salary budgets, whereas the cost in Assam with its low per capita
income (around Rs. 10,000) will take up almost all of the non-salary budget.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The SSA is currently being implemented across the country without donor funds. The Bank and donors are
considering participation in this program and will likely bring a Sector Wide Approach Program to Board
during FY2004. An evaluation regarding the transition and its impact on sustainability is being done as
part of the SSA project preparation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
To understand the Bank's role in DPEP preparation and implementation, it is essential to understand that
prior to 1990, the GOI had deliberately opted not to seek external financing for primary education. A series
of events in the early 1990s spurred the GOI to seek support for primary education reform. Bank staff were
first invited to brainstorm on 'best practice' in primary education development across the world and then in
the latter part of 1992, they were asked to "appraise" a proposal prepared by the Government of Uttar
Pradesh (UP) and the GOI. The Bank staff recognized the proposal as a fully-owned and well-developed
project, for and by Indians, and provided some additional work and analysis to complete the proposal. The
UPBEP became the first Bank investment in elementary education, and the pilot on which the DPEP model
is based. Simultaneously, the fiscal crisis hit India, causing the GOI to look for ways to generate foreign
currency, including IDA and consequently a framework and guidelines were developed for engaging with
external financiers for support to primary education in the DPEP.

The project preceded the Loan Administration Change Initiative, and as such no formal Financial
Management Assessment of the implementing agencies were conducted at the appraisal stage. However, the
appraisal did undertake a detailed analysis of funds flows in the project resulting in the setting up of bank
accounts at different levels down to the village to support project activity. These accounts would record



                                                       - 13 -

deposits and withdrawals. Strengths of the Bank team during preparation included: (i) the continuity of
staff and consultants who had worked on the program over time; (ii) the ability of Bank staff to recognize
the strengths and capacities of the GOI counterparts, GOI policy, and lessons learned; (iii) the good
balance and high level of technical expertise provided; (iv) the simultaneous in-depth sector work to learn
from early interventions, improve sector knowledge, and adapt the program accordingly.

7.2 Supervision:
A joint supervision of all the DPEP projects, both by the Bank and other donors, was developed to
maximize coordination, and minimize imposition on the GOI and state governments. The DPEP supervision
strategy, with rotating leadership responsibilities among development partners, was subsequently used in
other countries. The name of the supervision missions was changed from Joint Supervision Missions to
Joint Review Missions (JRM) in 1998 in recognition of the collegial, supportive nature of these visits to the
states and to differentiate the roles of GOI and its funding partners: supervision was the role of the former,
while the latter participated to confirm and verify the supervision results. National, state and district
officials universally praise the process followed by the JRMs with its clear objectives. These missions were
seen by state and district staff as filling several functions: (i) problem solving (e.g., facilitating the release
of funds); (ii) monitoring; (iii) providing professional advice, sharing of experiences and cross-fertilization,
both nationally and internationally; (iv) facilitating communication between education officials, and state
and national policymakers; (v) motivating and supporting project staff; and (vi) ensuring continuity in
states where there had been frequent changes in education personnel. In 1999, the QAG identified the
quality of DPEP supervision as being "highly satisfactory."

Some concerns were expressed that the impact of the JRM weakened over time. The perception was that (i)
the depth of coverage lessened; (ii) they became more mechanistic; (iii) the Terms of Reference became too
vague and yet restrictive by limiting what teams in the field could assess; and (iv) in some cases, the JRM
could be a burden because of the amount of work required bi-annually by the states. Difficulties also
emerged from the Bank's perspective in meeting its fiduciary requirements since the JRM did not allow for
the review of procurement, disbursements and financial management aspects. This was subsequently
changed to allow for a once a year review, outside the JRM, in a sample of states. More systematic review
of accounting and book keeping procedures would have helped address issues raised in audit reports.
Another problem was that review of the national component, or performance of the national implementing
agency and its support institutions, was not included in the JRM. The limitation discussed above could be
considered a weakness on the Bank's part since the team was unable to move the dialogue on improving the
review mechanism forward.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
With DPEP, the GOI sought to move away from fragmented project efforts to a comprehensive and holistic
program of both expansion and improvement of primary education. The GOI incorporated national and
international advice in the development of its plan and requested the Bank to support this effort, first with a
state project and then with the multi-state DPEP. GOI fully led in the preparation of DPEP and ensured
that the project efforts supported its program for universal elementary education.




                                                       - 14 -

During project preparation, the Bureau was responsible for the coordination of the appraisal process with
the help of academics, teachers, administrators, and staff from non-governmental organizations (NGOs),
national resource institutions, and state-level education institutions. Until DPEP I, CSS for education in
India had been fully conceptualized at the center. In this project, districts and states were fully assisted in
developing perspective and annual plans according to project guidelines.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The EEB coordinated the financial management of the project, the supervision and evaluation of state and
district programs, and policy development needed to support project efforts. The Bureau also established
the TSG in EdCil to provide guidance and assistance to the states and organized the biannual JRMs to each
of the states. The Bureau ensured that the JRM aide memoires represented a consensus among the
participants. As outlined in project documents, mid-terms reviews involved several studies being carried
out, including an assessment of achievements. Data collection and analysis improved during the project
period, but further refinements should focus on providing information for specific policy and program
design decisions. More targeted technical support to states, which either want to go beyond the Guidelines
to deal with reform more holistically or are hampered by the political economy of the state, would be
useful. The amount of funds left unspent in the project suggests that there could have been more realism in
the financial planning of AWPBs.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
All six states embraced the objectives of the project and managed resources well. Setting up state and
DPOs did involve some initial delays causing lag in expenditure, which is expected in a project of such
magnitude and complexity. The project's satisfactory performance after this initial delay did support the
extension of project closing date by twelve months. Review visits to the states consisted of candid
discussions on implementation performance, successes and shortcomings. In addition to project personnel,
government officials were open to the suggestions made by the project team. Continuity in staff at district
levels helped assuage the transfers among State Project Directors, which were frequent in some of the
states. The goals of universal access, the completion of primary schooling and increasing the levels of
achievement are accepted widely at the state level, and the centrality of the primary school is now a part of
the social and political dialogue across the country. Though the human capacity needed to reach these goals
is greatly increased, higher levels of achievement and improved transition rates require attention.

Procurement in DPEP I was centralized. Review of procurement for the ICR was based on visits made to
two selected sample states: Haryana and Tamil Nadu. No major issues were observed during the execution
of the project. However, the time taken for procurement and contract implementation were on the higher
side. Delays evident in DPEP I became less apparent in subsequent projects. The ex-post reviews carried
out by the Bank contributed to such improvements. In general, project staff expressed their acceptance of
the Bank's procurement procedure. The procurement experience of SPO staff in Haryana is moderate while
in Tamil Nadu it is satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

Comprehensive and precise baseline data is crucial for monitoring impact. Project preparation
documents were enriched by the depth and magnitude of sector work that was done as background to this
project. The social assessment studies were crucial in identifying children from disadvantaged communities
targeted in the project. Project preparation and monitoring were to some extent hampered by the absence of
reliable data in states and districts on the basic indicators for primary education. For example, baseline


                                                       - 15 -

data on enrollment in primary education in the six states according to the Staff Apprasial Report (1994)
was calculated at 5,594,000, in contrast enrollment figures provided by the EMIS data, first available for
the year 1996, was lower at 4,882,421. Accurate baseline data in addition to data on non-DPEP districts
would have helped measure project impact with precision.

Center's role is critical, in addition to state engagement in holistic planning for reform in education.
National leadership and ownership are crucial for the success of a project as ambitious as this one. Indeed,
sustainability grew out of the GOI's commitment to its own program of expansion and improvement of
primary education. The broad guidelines prepared at the national level, which were extremely useful to
states in the early years of implementation, may have later stifled the initiatives of states to understand and
plan for comprehensive reform in the primary education sector. At the end of the project, the level of
awareness and ownership in the DPEP I States indicate the readiness of these states to plan comprehensive
reform in education including issues of teacher management. Within the SSA program, it will be important
to encourage this kind of systematic and comprehensive planning in the states.

Continuous evaluation and fine tuning of the supervision strategy is important. The Bank's commitment
to Education for All (or SSA), its staff expertise and their proximity to the field, its focus on outcomes and
its appreciation of GOI's complete ownership of the program led to effective preparation and
implementation. The JRMs were a critical component that allowed GOI and the Bank to influence the
efficiency and effectiveness of state-level implementation. Nonetheless, their format would benefit from
some review and renewal to avoid becoming overly mechanistic. Furthermore, supervision would have
benefited if the financial management and procurement aspects of the project were part of the JRMs.

Reflection and a culture of learning from implementation experience would benefit progress toward
development objectives. Both the center and states' willingness and the ability to build upon and learn from
their experience did facilitate project implementation. DPEP was built on the foundations of previous, more
limited programs that, in effect, informed the formulation of DPEP. DPEP itself produced considerable
information that encouraged an emphasis on continuous learning and innovation. The expansion of DPEP,
to cover half the districts in India, was in part due to DPEP I's emphasis on learning from doing. It is
important, therefore, to sustain and develop evolving institutional cultures that are capable of learning from
experience. The availability, quality and use of data are important. While considerable data was available
and a number of studies were done during the course of the project, the methodologies and analysis done
were limited with reference to informing policy and implementation. This is an area where technical inputs
from external sources could play a constructive role.

Pedagogical reform is difficult and requires sustained attention. Pedagogical reform is a difficult process.
It is easier to redesign textbooks than to make teachers think differently and transforming supervisors to
become enablers, in addition to being enforcers. More attention given to the CRC's role of providing
regular on-site training could have facilitated teachers adoption of the new methodology. The project would
have benefited from an understanding of the theories on literacy acquisition and a more concerted emphasis
on curriculum coverage and assessment. Furthermore, the organization of training indicates that states,
unaccustomed to the notion of systematic inservice training, have embarked on considerable
experimentation and need to be supported in their analysis of issues, such as the optimum length and
content of teacher training, and the logistics of training thousands of teacher within a short period. Dropout
and student learning would be better addressed with more attention given to instruction and classroom
practices.

Community support for education would be more effective if parents are also involved with student
learning. Involvement of local leaders and parents was essential to raising enrollment and attendance rates


                                                       - 16 -

and bringing additional resources to the school. However, DPEP portrays the need for parents to give
sustained attention to the functioning of schools during the school year, which could improve retention
levels and learning. It is difficult for VECs and parents to become involved in this way. Facilitators are
needed to guide, structure and monitor community level processes and sustain the communities' interest in
the education of their wards over the school year.

Data on enrollment in private schools is integral to providing a complete picture of educational
performance. DPEP Guidelines and project interventions appear to have developed capacity to monitor
public education (including aided private schools) rather than overall educational achievement in the states.
The trends in enrollment and dropout even in public education would have been better understood if there
was information on private school enrollment. More specifically, enrollment in fully private recognized and
unrecognized schools in project districts is important to monitor for two reasons. First, private school
enrollment would have allowed enrollment rates to be calculated instead of enrollment numbers. Second,
information on private school enrollment would have informed financial estimates on the extent to which
government resources will be required for achieving universal primary education.

There is need for understanding educational performance and policies in the country as a whole. The
appraisal document envisaged a much more policy-oriented role for the supervision missions and the
implications of project intervention for education in the states and in the country as a whole. For example,
the donor and GOI supervision missions were to monitor financial outlays to education at the state and
central levels in addition to educational policies in the states over the project period. This did not take place
since GOI did not consider this aspect for review in the JRM. The sector approach and budget support
envisaged in SSA will allow more opportunity for this level of understanding.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided a consolidated report for both DPEP I and II. Significant sections of the report are
included below and the remaining sections are in Annex 9.

Bank and Borrower performance
The World Bank
Facilitative Role : The Bank has played a very facilitative role without being interfering at any point, right
from the stage of project design. It has maintained a low profile and remained in the sidelines except in
matters where it was mandated to be an involved party. The manner in which the Bank interjected on such
instances was indeed facilitative.
Participation in Appraisal Processes : Appraisals prior to formal launch of a project have afforded
opportunities to the Bank to interact with the center and states. Their observations on these occasions have
been balanced and productive that helped in enriching the project documents to lead up to smooth
negotiations.
Participation in JSM/JRM : Through participation in the process of joint supervision/review, the Bank has
been able to interact with the states and get a first hand feel of the field situation. Interactions with the
center and the states have been on a constructive note and never prescriptive.
Procurement System : The Bank's procurement systems are complicated and different as compared to the
systems followed in the Government in India. To familiarize the users with the Bank's procurement
systems, training was imperative. It took time to bring about the required state of preparedness that resulted
in delays.




                                                      - 17 -

Centralized Procurement : Centralization of procurement systems by the Bank has defied the decentralized
spirit of the project.

Lessons learned
There are several demonstrated outcomes of DPEP that have provided a good learning experience for the
sector. The DPEP model by its design and the implementation strategies is a workable one in terms of the
structures set up, processes followed, the targets set, the methods adopted, the supplementary support
drawn upon, the thrust areas, etc.
The major lessons learnt have been summarized below.
1. Priority areas when well conceived can give a good start to efforts but as the understanding of issues get
further refined/sharpened with implementation experience the interventions can be made more focused and
directed at specific issues. This openness in planning is very important for reaching targeted goals.
2. Adequate preparation and commitment from the state Governments are necessary pre-conditions that
alone can make it possible to implement a complex sector/sub-sector project of complex nature that
requires multidimensional inputs
3. Implementation through a Society that functions with a balanced share of autonomy and state
Governments' control through its Executive Committee, that has the representation of several government
departments, offers a viable arrangement. This mechanism allows for inter-sectoral convergence and
greater flexibility and decentralization within prescribed limits.
4. The gains of a holistic approach as compared to a schematic approach in addressing the sectoral issues
and bringing in reform-based changes was realized through the DPEP experience.
5. Project design of DPEP was conceived for ideal conditions, which were not available in all the states.
Certain conditions were almost assumed that were really not available in the state context and had to be
created for proper implementation and this meant loss of time for actual implementation. In such a situation
targets set vis--vis the time frame was inadequate. The inadequacy of time was also felt in the context of
the varying levels of baselines that were sometimes far below the project targets, warranting greater
improvement/progress in a shorter time.
6. Projects of this intensity culminate in the need for reforms and operational changes in the primary sector.
A long-term view thus becomes crucial. At the close of these phases of DPEP there are issues to be tackled
yet, that are particularly related to qualitative improvement of primary education. Considering these a
longer-term project would be appropriate to achieve the goal of UEE. But the support of adequate
mechanisms will be necessary to continue working in the same pace and spirit without slipping into laxity.
A ten year project duration would enable successful completion of all program cycles and still be left with
adequate time to handle the difficult areas of access and quality aspects.
7. Community involvement is crucial for effective schools and quality education. Decentralized processes
that encourage popular support are also important for improved local management, enhanced
responsiveness to local needs that makes implementation effective. The stage is set for decentralizing
primary education with PRIs operational in most states. This will be an important administrative move that
will empower the PRIs to be directly involved in decision making and enjoy financial control as well.
8. A strong preschool component can positively influence children's entry into primary schools and their
demonstrated performance at the primary level speaks of the impact preschool has on quality education.
9. District specific financial ceilings that were enforced in DPEP did not allow the districts to plan in
accordance with their needs. This was a serious detrimental in setting up academic support structures in
case of districts with several blocks. To meet this institutional gap, the state will have to rely on other
projects/sources. Future projects need to examine this closely while setting financial norms.
10. Full and meaningful participation of existing institutions/personnel like SCERT, DIETs and
educational administrators will require some more time and effort though substantial improvement in their
functioning has been possible through interventions under DPEP. The whole approach to activizing them
would require a long-term view with the backing of and rigorous planning/implementation. In this context,


                                                      - 18 -

leadership, capacity building, delegation of power and control, development of simple and flexible
mechanisms would be all-important.
11. The importance of informed decision making and close monitoring in planning, implementation and
improvement was established through conduct and use of research and evaluation studies, collection,
analysis and utilization of EMIS, and organization of periodical review meetings. All of these facilitated
mid-course corrections that added greater rigor to programming
12. The limited experience with SIEMAT does suggest their value in obtaining technical support for
educational planning and management including promotion of research to encourage evidence based
planning
The continuity of leadership and staff in critical positions at all levels for a minimum duration is a
non-negotiable for the concepts and spirit to grow roots. This can assure implementation in the desired
direction.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Financial Management: The disbursement and payments were carried out as per the Bank's standard
procedures in India. Though the quality of audit reports in India was perhaps the best in DPEP projects, the
major issues brought out in these reports, such as non-reconciliation of cashbooks and Bank statements and
the non-receipt of utilization certificates, could have been addressed more promptly. Another common issue
was the large amounts of outstanding advances, especially where PRIs were responsible for school
construction. There were also reconciliation issues between the SPO and the PRIs. The Manual for
financial management, perceived as a valuable document, outlined accounting and payment rules for the
hierarchy of DPEP flows. DPEP projects are implemented by ring-fenced entities outside the government
accounting system so the government accounting rules do not apply to these bodies. However, that being
the case, accounting practices could have been strengthened. Simplification of procedures for receipt of
utilization certificates could have circumvented the problem of large outstanding advances at the end. An
efficient and effective internal audit function could have addressed some procedural weaknesses in
accounting. Trainings of staff responsible for bookkeeping are essential to good book accounting practices.
FM supervision, which was only included in the JRMs towards the end of the project, may have helped to
address some of the concerns on weak accounting and reporting systems.




                                                      - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Increasing access.                               Additional classroom space for 4,00,000.     Classroom space was provided for an
                                                 Increase in enrollment by 2,85,000 students. additional 4,00,000 students through the
                                                                                              construction of additional classrooms and
                                                                                              schools.
                                                                                              Enrollment has increased by 2,85,000
                                                                                              students.
                                                                                              Disparity in enrollment between boys and
                                                                                              girls has reduced to less than 5 percent in all
                                                                                              states. The proportion of girls to boys has
                                                                                              increased from 45.6 percent to 47.8 percent.
                                                                                              Overall Schedule Caste enrollment increased
                                                                                              by six percent and Schedule Tribe by 26
                                                                                              percent.

Reducing dropout.                                Between 10 and 40 percent                    Dropout rate:
                                                                                              Kerala is below 10 percent
                                                                                              Assam over 40 percent
                                                                                              Remaining 4 States 20-40 percent.

Improving learning achievement.                  Increase of 20 percent for Class 1 and about At mid term: Average increase was 28
                                                 40 percent for Class 3/4.                    percent and 11 percent over baseline in
                                                                                              Class 1 for mathematics and language
                                                                                              respectively; 13 and 19 percent for Class 3/4.
                                                                                               End project: Average increase was 20
                                                                                              percent over mid-term for Class 1 for both
                                                                                              mathematics and language; 45 and 35
                                                                                              percent for Class 3/4.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
DPEP Bureau fully functional.                    Appraisal reports provided.                  Appraisal reports of six states provided twice
                                                                                              yearly, and necessary information made
                                                                                              available between supervision missions.


School statistics computerized to district       Data provided on key indicators.             EMIS systems in place. Comprehensive
level.                                                                                        computerized data available on major
                                                                                              educational indicators. Reports have been
                                                                                              provided consistently to supervision teams.


National training resource group established Support for training activities.                 The inservice teacher training program was
to support state and district training activities                                             introduced to states by the national training
for teachers, head teachers, cluster resource                                                 resource group consisting of EdCil, NCERT
teams, master Trainers.                                                                       and NIEPA, through national level workshops
                                                                                              for state and district level master trainers for
                                                                                              all six states.
DPEP program on evaluation, research and         Research and evaluation in preparation for   Mid-term and terminal achievement studies
studies established to assess DPEP program       the ICR.                                     conducted and reported in addition to regular
strategies and impact and build research                                                      reporting on EMIS data. National level
capacity in state institutions.                                                               institutions conducted more than 33 studies.



Program of technical assistance to states in     Consistent technical assistance provided.    Workshops were held on preparing AWPBs.
education planning and management and                                                         State and district plans were appraised
training to train state and district Officials.                                               regularly. Progress reports provided to
                                                                                              supervision missions assessed the
                                                                                              implementation of these plans.




                                                                   - 20 -

Programs for (i) reading skills and           Training provided to teachers and textbooks Workshops were held at the national and
comprehension enhancement; (ii)               revised.                                    state levels to discuss difficulties in teaching
mathematics activity and (iii) instructional                                              language and mathematics and to identify
materials renewal established.                                                            and share strategies being used by different
                                                                                          states. The textbooks in all states were
                                                                                          revised.


Program of special emphasis for ST            Production of supplementary material for    States, which have large tribal populations,
education established.                        tribal students.                            have produced supplementary instructional
                                                                                          material in tribal languages.


State Implementation Societies and district   Fully functional state and district         State Implementation Societies and district
offices fully functional.                     implementation offices.                     offices are fully functional and have
                                                                                          effectively managed implementation for the
                                                                                          whole project period. Sub-district level
                                                                                          structures at the block and cluster are also in
                                                                                          place both for local level school functioning
                                                                                          and monitoring.


Strengthen state textbook production. Project Textbook production revised.                States have revised textbooks with
funds used until camera-ready copies of the                                               participation from teachers and practitioners
revised textbooks were produced.                                                          in primary education and have field tested the
                                                                                          textbooks. Teacher guides and student
                                                                                          workbooks were also supported with project
                                                                                          funds.
Strengthen State Councils for Educational     Strengthened capacity of technical          SCERTs have been strengthened in the
Research and Training.                        institutions at the state level.            states through the hiring of additional staff
                                                                                          supported by state funds. The capacity of
                                                                                          staff has been built through: attendance in
                                                                                          national workshops, involvement in producing
                                                                                          training modules, and training of teachers
                                                                                          and VEC members.


Establish State Institutes for Educational    SIEMATs established.                        SIEMATs have been established in
Planning and Administration.                                                              departments of education in Assam, Haryana
                                                                                          and Maharastra and as a unit in the SCERT
                                                                                          in the other states. These institutions' role in
                                                                                          educational planning and capacity is still to
                                                                                          be developed in project states.



Early childhood education.                    ECE centers set up.                         In places where the Integrated Child
                                                                                          Development Scheme was not implemented,
                                                                                          early childhood centers were established in a
                                                                                          limited fashion.


Civil works included construction of schools, 200 BRCs; 1032 CRCs; 5183 additional        Though baseline targets were not set at
additional classrooms, Block Resource         classrooms; 2183 school buildings; 10004    appraisal stage, targets were decided soon
Centers, Cluster Resource Centers, toilets    toilets; 7368 drinking water faucets; 4076  after project commencement. These targets,
and provision of water facilities.            schools repaired.                           though, were increased at different points
                                                                                          during the project. Project funds supported
                                                                                          the construction of the following:
                                                                                           -- 200 BRCs
                                                                                           -- 1032 CRCs
                                                                                           -- 5183 additional classrooms
                                                                                           -- 2183 school buildings
                                                                                           --10004 toilets
                                                                                           -- 7368 drinking water faucets
                                                                                           -- 4076 schools repaired.


Improved classroom instruction.               Improved classroom instruction.             Classroom instruction has improved in so far
                                                                                          as students enjoy being in school and there
                                                                                          is less corporal punishment. The project was
                                                                                          unable to ensure consistent coverage of the




                                                                  - 21 -

                                                                           curriculum and significant changes to the
                                                                           practice of rote learning.


Developing community involvement.    VECs and user groups established and  Community mobilization was implemented
                                     involved with schooling.              across DPEP districts through campaigns
                                                                           and the media. VECs established in all
                                                                           villages. Enabling VEC involvement and
                                                                           monitoring of school functioning needs to be
                                                                           strengthened.

1End of project




                                                       - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate         Estimate           Appraisal
                         Component                              US$ million     US$ million
1 Building national institutional capacity                         20.50              20.41               100
2. Building state institutional capacity                           24.80              24.00                97
3. Improving quality and access in Primary education
      Building district institutional capacity                     12.50              12.00                96
      Improving retention                                          42.70              36.34                77
      Improving access                                             97.50              97.50                98
      Improving learning achievement                               72.40              75.00                82

Total Baseline Cost                                               270.40             265.25
  Physical Contingencies                                           21.40
  Price Contingencies                                              18.70
                           Total Project Costs                    310.50             265.25
                   Total Financing Required                       310.50             265.25

The actual expenditure under the project is $265.25 million against estimated sum of $310.50 million. This
reduction is mainly due to reduced expenditure under educational materials in the category of goods. The
work carried out by communities increased by more than two-fold. This is very significant for a project of
this nature. Expenditure under NCB, however, is low.

Civil Works: The expenditure predicted for civil works at appraisal was US$63.90 million, actual
expenditure is 3 percent more. However, expenditure under each procurement method changed
significantly. More than 50 percent of the civil works were programmed at appraisal to use NCB
procedures and 28 percent and 21 percent were to be done by communities and force account procedure,
respectively. However, NCB proeducres were used for 34 percent of the civil works and communities
undertook more than 66 percent.

Goods: The procurement of goods under the project was reduced drastically from the amount at appraisal.
The total estimated amount at appraisal was US$86 million. Actual performance was as low as US$26.29
million.This 70 percent reduction was mainly due to educational material and books. Only US$2.51 million
was utilized for educational materials against $51 million estimated, and only US$8.52 million for books
utilized from the US$15.60 million estimated. The provisions for books and learning materials at appraisal
were over estimated. A marginal increase is observed in furniture.

Training and Consultancy: The expenditure incurred is reasonably tallying with the estimates. It is
encouraging that more funds were disbursed following competitive procedures against direct contracting
estimated at appraisal.
Incremental Operating Costs: Against the original estimate of US104.8 million, the actual expenditure
was US$126.5 million, representing a 20 percent increase over the original estimate. This was mainly due
to the recruitment of additional teachers.




                                                   - 23 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category                          ICB         NCB         Other       N.B.F.    Total Cost
A. WORKS                                                       32.2        31.7                    63.9
                                                              (28.9)     (28.4)                  (57.3)
B. GOODS                                           1.1         21.2        63.6                    85.9
                                                 (1.0)        (17.5)     (51.8)                  (70.3)
C. TRAINING & CONSULTANTS                                                  55.9                    55.9
                                                                         (55.9)                  (55.9)
D. INCREMENTAL OPERATING                                                  104.8                   104.8
AND MAINTENANCE COSTS                                                    (76.9)                  (76.9)
TOTAL                                              1.1         53.4       256.0                   310.5
                                                 (1.0)        (46.4)    (213.0)                (260.4)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category                           ICB         NCB         Other       N.B.F.   Total Cost
A. WORKS                                                        22.5        43.3                   65.8
                                                             (20.30)        (39)                 (59.3)
B. GOODS                                           0.23         8.71       17.35                  26.29
                                                 (0.00)        (8.4)        (16)                 (24.4)
C. TRAINING & CONSULTANTS                                                  44.86                  44.86
                                                                          (37.9)                 (37.9)
D. INCREMENTAL OPERATING                                                   126.5                  126.5
AND MAINTENANCE COSTS                                                    (105.6)               (105.6)
SA for all categories                                                                  (1.8)      (1.8)
TOTAL                                              0.23        31.21     232.01                 265.25
                                                  (0.0)      (27.34)     (196.5)       (1.8)  (229.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.

Project Financing by Expenditure Category (in US$ million equivalent)

Disbursement Categories                     Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest       Percentage
                                                                     Estimate          of Appraisal
                                              IDA       Govt.      IDA      Govt.     IDA      Govt.
CIVIL WORKS                                     57.3        6.5       59.3       6.5      103        99
GOODS                                           70.3       15.5       24.4       1.9       35        12
TRAINING & CONSULTANTS                          55.9           0      37.9       7.0       68         -
INCREMENTAL OPERATING AND                       76.9       27.8      105.6     20.9       137        74
MAINTENANCE COSTS
SA for all categories                                                  1.8
TOTAL                                          260.3       50.2     229.00     36.3        88        72




                                                   - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Project cost in terms of IDA funds was US$260 million of which 93 percent was spent on a comprehensive
and complex set of interventions to improve primary education. Analysis of economic costs and benefits
was not undertaken at appraisal. The economic analysis at project completion included an analysis of the
project investment per student and rates of return and fiscal sustainability.

(i) DPEP I achieved important results in increasing access, bridging the gender gap, and improving
efficiency and outcomes at a fairly low investment level. The investment in DPEP I covered about 5 million
students. Investment per student or unit cost was computed by dividing the total project or input cost by the
number of students enrolled in schools since 1996-97. Average investment per student annually in DPEP I
was $7.4. Wide variations in unit costs across the project states are evident. High unit costs were found in
Haryana ($14.4), and Assam ($15.3), whereas the rest of the states had a unit cost around the an average
of $5.

(ii) A recent study by Duraiswamy (2000) based on an analysis of 1993 and 1998 household surveys,
estimates the rates of return to primary education in India to be about 8 percent, while the return to
secondary education is approximately 17 percent, to college education 12 percent and to a technical
diploma or certificate 15 percent. Using the parameters estimated by Duraiswamy, a part of the human
capital benefit of the project has been quantified. Several alternative scenarios were run based on different
assumptions concerning the proportion of beneficiaries and the incremental impact on human capital. Table
1 below presents several scenarios of the economic benefit of DPEP I, measured in terms of rates of return
to the project.

         Table 1. Rates of Return to DPEP1 Under Alternative Benefit Scenarios (Percent)

  Alternative Scenarios                                                     Net Beneficiaries
                                 15% of                17.5% of             20% of students     22.5% of              25% of
                                 students              students                                 students              students
Incremental earnings                    12.3                  13.7                 15.0                 16.3                17.4
increase of Rs. 3,600
per year
Incremental earnings                    11.6                   12.9                14.2                 15.4                16.4
increase of Rs. 3,300 per
year
Incremental earnings                    10.8                   12.1                13.3                 14.4                15.5
increase of Rs. 3,000 per
year
Incremental earnings                    9.9                    11.1                12.2                 13.3                14.3
increase of Rs. 2,700 per
year
Incremental earnings                    9.1                   10.2                 11.3                 12.3                13.3
increase of Rs. 2,400
per year
Source: WB estimates.
Assumptions: between 15%-25% students in DPEP districts are net beneficiaries of the project; 70% of children complete
primary education, and the project impact will result in earnings increases by between Rs. 2,400 to 3,600 per year for these
beneficiaries. These assumptions have been taken as the most reasonable, based on the DPEP literature cited in
(Sipahimalani-Rao and Clarke, 2003), and Duraiswamy (2000). Earnings streams are assumed to commence 5 years from now,
and the duration of a life-cycle earnings profile is assumed to be 40 years.




                                                              - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/06/1993              12     Mission Leader (1),
                                             Implementation Officer (1),
                                             Architects (2), Principal
                                             Sociologist (1), Social
                                             Development Specialist (1),
                                             Education Advisor (1)
                                             Management (2);
                                             Economist (3)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              3/28/1995               15     Education Advisor (1);
                                             Management (2);
                                             Gender/Tribal (1);
                                             Economist (3); Civil Works
                                             Specialists (2), Social
                                             Development Specialist (1),
                                             Sr. Implementation
                                             Specialist (1), Textbook
                                             Specialist (1), Education
                                             Specialists (2), Distance
                                             Education Specialist (1)

 Supervision
              April 1995                5    Management (1);                       S              HS
                                             Gender/Tribal specialist (1);
                                             Staff development &
                                             Training (1); Civil Works (2)
              November 1995             5    Management (1); Gender/Tribal         S               S
                                             specialist (1); Staff Development
                                             & Training (1); Civil Works (2)
              April 1996                5    Research Specialist (1);              S               S
                                             Management (1); Staff
                                             development & Training (1);
                                             Civil Works (1); Implementation
                                             Specialist (1)
              November 1996             5    Management (1); Gender/Tribal         S               S
                                             specialist (1); Staff development
                                             & Training (1); Civil Works (2)
              April 1997                5    Management (1); Gender/Tribal         S               S
                                             specialist (1); Staff development
                                             & Training (1); Civil Works (2)
              November 1997             5    Research Specialist (1);              S               S
                                             Management (1); Staff
                                             development & Training (1);
                                             Civil Works (1); Implementation
                                             Specialist (1)




                                              - 26 -

April 1998       5 Management (1); Gender/Tribal        S    S
                   specialist (1); Staff development
                   & Training (1); Civil Works (2)
November 1998    5 Research Specialist (1);             S    S
                   Management (1); Staff
                   development & Training (1);
                   Civil Works (1); Implementation
                   Speclst (1)
April 1998       5 Management (1); Gender/Tribal        S    S
                   specialist (1); Staff development
                   & Training (1); Civil Works (2)
November 1998    5 Research Specialist (1);             S    S
                   Management (1); Staff
                   development & Training (1);
                   Civil Works (1); Implementation
                   specialist (1)
April 1999       5 Management (1); Educational          S    S
                   Planning (1); Education (2); Staff
                   development & Training (1)
November 1999    6 Management (1);                      S    S
                   Curriculum-Instruct (2);
                   Sociology (1); Civil Works (1);
                   Inst. Capacity Bldg (1)
April 2000       6 School Based management (1);         S    S
                   Planning And management (1);
                   School Effectiveness (1); Early
                   Childhood Edu (1); Curriculum
                   & Instruc (1); Educational
                   Research (1)
November 2000    7 School-Based management (1);         S    S
                   Planning & management (1);
                   Teaching And Learning (1);
                   Early Childhood Edu (1); School
                   Effectiveness (1); School
                   Improvement (2)
April 2001       8 School Improvement (3);              S    S
                   Planning & Management (1);
                   Special Education (1);
                   Economics Of Education (1);
                   Economic Of Education (1);
                   School Administration (1)
November 2001    7 School Improvement (2);              S    S
                   Planning & Management (1);
                   Early Childhood (1); Special
                   Education (1); Education
                   Economist (2)
April 2002       8 School Improvement (2); Early        S    S
                   Childhood (1); Special Education
                   (1); Economics (2); Gender
                   Issues (1); Assessment (1)
November 2002    8 Teaching And Learning (1);           S    S
                   Early Childhood (1); Disabilities
                   (1); Economics (2); School



                   - 27 -

                                            Improvement (3)

 ICR
               05/05/2003             9     Pedagogy (1); School
                                            Improvement (2); Special
                                            Education (1); Education
                                            Economist (3); Civil Works
                                            (1); Institutional Analysis
                                            (1); Community Processes
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             135                             349
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    59                            169
  Supervision                            304                             775
  ICR                                      23                             50
  Total                                  521                            1344




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
         Socially and economically
disadvantaged groups such as
Schedule Caste, Schedule Tribe,
children with mild to moderate
disability and working children.
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                               Rating

   Lending                                          HS      S      U       HU
   Supervision                                      HS      S      U       HU
   Overall                                          HS      S      U       HU
The considerable strengths of Bank's supervision performance (described in Section 7) are influenced by
two factors: (i) the inability to build the trust required to be able to conduct a full evaluation of the National
Component, and (ii) the fact that fiduciary reviews were not able to be undertaken by the JRMs and could
only be conducted outside the regular missions with limited scope.
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating

   Preparation                                      HS      S      U       HU
   Government implementation performance            HS      S      U       HU
   Implementation agency performance                HS      S      U       HU
   Overall                                          HS      S      U       HU




                                                        - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Joint Supervision/Review Mission Reports
Aide Memoire. First Joint Supervision Mission (April 1995). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Second Joint Supervision Mission (November 1995). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Third Joint Supervision Mission (April 1996). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Fourth Joint Supervision Missiotn (November 1996). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Fifth Joint Supervision Mission (April 1997). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Sixth Joint Supervision Mission (November 1997). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Seventh Joint Supervision Mission (April 1998). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Eighth Joint Review Mission (November 1998). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Ninth Joint Review Mission (April 1999). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Tenth Joint Review Mission (November 1999). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Eleventh Joint Review Mission (April 2000). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Twelfth Joint Review Mission (November 2000). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Thirteenth Joint Review Mission (April 2001). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Fourteenth Joint Review Mission (November 2001). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Fifteenth Joint Review Mission (April 2002). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
____. Sixteenth Joint Review Mission (November 2002). District Primary Education Program (DPEP)
State reports accompanied the aide memoires. Background papers were provided for supervision missions,
which later became published documents reviewed in the World Bank Report (SASHD 2003).

State and National Implementation Completion Reports
Reflection Papers were prepared by the Governments of Assam, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharastra,
     and Tamil Nadu. May 2003.
National Reflection Paper. Implementation Completion Report. The District Primary Education
     Programme, Phases I & II. Department of Elementary Education & Literacy, Ministry of Human
     Resource Development, GOI. May 2003.

National Studies
Aggarwal, Yash. 2001.District Primary Education Programme. Progress towards Universal Access and
     Retention. District Report Cards. New Delhi, National Institute of Educational Planning and
     Administration.
Aggarwal, Yash. 2002. District Primary Education Programme. Universal Access and Retention. Where
     do we stand? Elementary Education Report Cards. New Delhi, National Institute of Educational
     Planning and Administration.
Gautam, S.K.S. 2002. District Primary Education Programme. Students Achievement Under TAS. An
     Appraisal in Phase-I States. New Delhi, National Council of Educational Research and Training.
Tara, S. Nayana and V. Nagadevara. 2002. External Evaluation of District Primary Education
     Programme(DPEP) in Kerala State. Conducted by the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore for
     MHRD, GOI.
Reddy, V.N. and Raghabendra Chattopadhyay. Evaluation of District Primary Education Programme in
     Assam. Conducted by Indian Institute of Management, Kolkata for MHRD, GOI..
Tara, S. Nayana and V. Nagadevara. 2002. External Evaluation of District Primary Education
     Programme(DPEP) in Tamil Nadu State. Conducted by the Indian Institute of Management,
     Bangalore for MHRD, GOI.
Sharma, Rajeev. 2002. External Evaluation of DPEP-I, Maharashtra. Conducted by the Indian Institute
     of Management, Ahmedabad for MHRD, GOI. .
Dewan, H.K. 2002 External Evaluation DPEP in Karnataka. Conducted by Vidya Bhavan Society for


                                                 - 31 -

    MHRD, GOI.
Prakash, Ved, S.K.S. Gautam, and I.K. Bansal. 2000. Scholastic Attainment Under MAS. An Appraisal.
    New Delhi, National Council of Educational Research and Training,

World Bank Reports/Studies
Sipahimalani-Rao, Vandana and Prema Clarke. A Review of Educational Progress and Reform in The
    District Primary Education Program (DPEP I and II). 2002. DPEP Evaluation. Report No.1. New
    Delhi, SASHD, The World Bank.
Hirshberg, Susan. 2003. DPEP Case Study. Washington DC, The World Bank.
Jalan, Jyotsna and Elena Glinskaya. 2002. Improving Primary School Education in India: An
    Impact Assessment of DPEP-Phase I (draft). Washington DC, The World Bank
Pandey, R. 2000. Going to Scale with Education Reform: India District Primary Education Reform,
    1995-99. Washington DC, The World Bank.
Hussock, Howard. 2000. Implementing Education Reform in India: The Primary School
    Textbook Debate and Resistance to Change in Kerala. Cambridge, MA: Kennedy School
    of Government, Harvard University.
Lockheed, Marlaine, John Middleton, Keith Hinchliffe, N.K. Jangira, Philip Cohen, Jane Hannaway, and
    Adrian Verspoor. 1997. Primary Education In India. Washington, D.C., The World Bank.
Bashir, Sajitha, and V. Ayyar. 2001. District Primary Education Programme. Encyclopaedia of Indian
    Education. New Delhi, National Council of Educational Research and Training.




                                                  - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of projects and key performance indicators

                             Bank-Financed District Primary Education Projects

                             Number of states         Number of Districts        Closing Date           IDA amount ($
                                                                                                            million)
  DPEP I                                7                       42               June 30, 2003               260.3
  DPEP II                           (7) + 5                     92               June 30, 2003               425.2
  DPEP III (Bihar and                   2                       17            September 30, 2004             152.0
Jharkhand)
Andhra Pradesh (under                   1                       14              March 31, 2004               137.4
APERP)
  Rajasthan DPEP I                      1                       10             December 31, 2004              85.7
  UP DPEP III                           1                       42            September 30, 2005             182.4
  Rajasthan DPEP II                     1                        9             December 31, 2006              74.4
Total                                  18                      226                                           1317.4
* In addition to these 17 states, districts in West Bengal are financed by DFID. Post DPEP I and II, remaining
states and districts in DPEP include Bihar, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttaranchal,
financed by the Bank; Gujarat financed by the Netherlands; and West Bengal and Orissa financed by DFID.

                                     Key performance indicators for DPEP I


                       Figure 1: Number of Class 3/4 students by test score

           35
           30
           25
           20
           15                                                         Students in

           10                                                              000's

             5
             0                                                        Mid-term
                  0-20    20-40                                     Terminal
                                    40-60      60-80   80-100
                       Test Score


                                            Terminal    Mid-term




                                                        - 33 -

   Figure 2: District terminal achievement              Figure 3: District terminal achievement
      scores compared to mid-term in                   scores compared to mid-term in language
                mathematics



                            15%                                   12%            14%
        26%



                                                          24%

                                   30%


           29%                                                                       50%




         <0    0-15      15-25   >25                          <0    0-15      15-25   >25



     Enrollment numbers are given in Figures 4 and 5.

                             Figure 4: Enrollment in DPEP I


6000000

5000000

4000000

3000000

2000000

1000000

      0
              Total             Boys'          Girls'    SC enrollment ST enrollment
            enrollment       enrollment     enrollment


                                          1996-97    2001-02




                                               - 34 -

                  Figure 5: Enrollment in DPEP I States
2000000

1800000

1600000

1400000

1200000

1000000

 800000

 600000

 400000

 200000

      0
         1996-97   1997-98     1998-99     1999-2000   2000-01   2001-02

       Haryana                 Assam                     Kerala
       Maharashtra             Karnataka                 Tamil Nadu




                                       - 35 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's contribution


               National Reflection Paper: Ministry of Human Resources, Government of India
                THE DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION program - PHASES I & II

I.       Trends in Basic Education
The resolve of the National Policy on Education 1986 to ensure universal elementary education (UEE) by
2000 was reinforced in the Plan of Action 1992. With this end in view the Central Government launched
programs and schemes to supplement the efforts of States. During the late 1980s and the early 1990s
experimentation in the primary education sector was at its height through state projects and targeted
projects. It was around this time that the GOI stepped in to adopt a proactive position that was triggered off
by the growing concern for primary education. Rich experience gained in executing these projects
contributed in formulating the District Primary Education program (DPEP).

II.      Project Design and Quality at Entry
2.1      Project Design: A CSS, DPEP was perceived as a means of revitalizing primary education, that
was an additionality to the levels of expenditure on primary education in the States as on fixed cut off years
specified for the two phases of the program. The idea was to provide that added boost to the primary
education sector over a fixed time span through additional funding for critical areas to bridge gaps, infuse
quality in the delivery of primary education and accelerate achievement of UEE in the project districts.

This time around, educational needs were viewed in totality and efforts aimed at addressing the gaps and
priorities with urgency. Every facilitative factor, process and key partners as preconditions for quality
education to happen had been taken into account in the project design. The holistic planning and
management approach adopted for this central sector initiative was able to move far beyond mere
provisioning for primary education development through stand alone schemes. This departure from the
fragmented perception of educational needs has marked the beginning of a new era in the planning and
delivery of primary education.

Apart from redefining the approach to primary education, DPEP ushered in a new perspective and also
focused on aspects of primary education that were not quite taken into account in the prior experience of
planning and the implementation process. The design itself introduced new elements to take care of the
basics and the process that went into the designing of the project was novel.

DPEP was by design not a finance driven program, but one that sought to build systems that are cost
effective, equitable, replicable and sustainable. It built on the long term perspective of establishing systems
and mechanisms that lent themselves to quality primary education.

The design of the program mandated liberal use of data in planning that was made possible with creation of
baselines and social assessments in the selected districts. The States/districts were thus able to identify
needs and gaps and prioritize their strategies and interventions in line with these while formulating their
plans.

Convergence in project implementation was envisaged by design and finds specific mention in the context
of ECE, service delivery and inclusive education.

The project design provided an exclusive and dedicated management and program structure at the National
level that was set up with funding under DPEP I.


                                                      - 36 -

The National Management structure set up for DPEP consisted of:

GENERAL COUNCIL             To provide policy direction DPEP


                            Envisaged as an empowered body to recommend policies, consider
PROJECT BOARD               AWP&B and approve changes in norms, review progress & provide
                            guidance to DPEP Bureau

DPEP BUREAU                 To coordinate, appraise, finance, supervise & evaluate State & district
                            programmes. Overall in charge of implementation of DPEP

TSG (DPEP)                  To provide technical services for programme management




In addition, apex educational institutions like the NCERT, the NIEPA and NSDART supported this
National set up for DPEP in program planning, implementation, monitoring, research and evaluation,
capacity building, etc.

Though the General Council did not meet during the tenure of DPEP I and II, the Project Board met
annually where the annual project progress was shared, issues that came up in the course of the year were
discussed and the AWPB for the current financial year were placed for approval.

2.2      Process of Designing the Project: Led by the Department of Education, GOI the design of the
new project was based on discussions with the academia, teachers, specialized institutions and resource
centers, educational administrators and representatives of NGO. In 1993, a DPEP Project Development
Team comprising a Joint Secretary, three Deputy Secretaries and support staff was set up for the
preparation of the DPEP projects. Besides drawing upon the national resources, such as NCERT and
NIEPA, states were brought on board from the very beginning of the process of project designing. Frequent
interactions were held with the states to elicit their views for incorporation in the design of DPEP, generate
state ownership of the project and commitment to the implementation process. Developed nationally, the
project is an indigenous output of homegrown ideas and experiences.

The design of DPEP is influenced by the
l NPE
l National experience of executing CSSs and first generation basic education projects such as Andhra
    Pradesh Primary Education Project, UPBEP, Bihar Education Project (BEP), Lok Jumbish and the
    Mahila Samakhya program
l Central Advisory Board for Education (CABE) guidelines


The DPEP guidelines served the purpose of ensuring a basic degree of uniformity amidst diversity. While
providing the essential coherent structure of a national program, the guidelines granted states and districts
considerable flexibility in designing programs to suit their local contexts.

2.3      Quality of Design at Entry: DPEP's holistic view of primary education can be credited to have
recognized the criticality of many otherwise undermined/neglected aspects of provisioning primary
education. Departing from a supply driven, often dispassionate and mechanical approach, the project's
emphasis on the importance of nurturing greater community involvement with defined roles and




                                                       - 37 -

responsibilities through decentralized planning and implementation was a significant shift. The project
strengthened the standing of Government schools and regained community confidence in the provisioning of
primary education by the Government.

The NPE's recommended district based education planning was realized in DPEP by taking the district as
the unit of planning. Setting the process of district based planning in motion, core teams were constituted at
district and sub-district levels. House to house contacts, consultative meetings, group discussions with
community groups and stakeholders became an integral part of the planning process. As this was the first
attempt at district planning for education, at some scale, capacity building in planning became a critical
facilitative input. Thus, to realize the goal of district based planning, special efforts to develop planning
skills were imperative. In the initial stages of DPEP Phase I, NCERT, NIEPA and NSDART contributed in
the effort at capacity building for district planning in primary education. Consequent to this, district level
planning capacities are so much more evolved.

What makes the DPEP design stand out as `special' and `different' are stated below.

Process based (intensive) project : Project planning and implementation in DPEP was envisaged as
dynamic and participatory with the scope of enlisting community participation. The decentralized planning
and implementation approach warranted the active involvement of village leadership, stakeholders, elected
people's representatives, NGOs, district, block and school level personnel, etc. The project further
encouraged consensus building through broad based participation, consultative meetings and group
discussions. Facilitating community involvement, the project provided for setting up grassroots structures
such as VEC to function as organized/empowered `agents' of the community in matters of primary
education. All of this coupled with a one third representation of women in the VECs has encouraged
women's participation in a big way.

Contextual : Diversity is the distinctive mark of India. The success of any intervention in this country
depends to a great extent on the ability to capture the diversities and target them through appropriate
programmatic measures. Being district specific, DPEP made room for sensitive handling of local
specificities that have a bearing on educational progress/advancement.

Evolving system : a Learning Process : A unique feature of DPEP has been its openness to learn from
experience and remodel its approach and strategy and shift focus from time to time to make it an evolving
system. Characterized by an open planning process, the structures put in place for administrative and
academic roles also followed similar principles. The plans that were approved for the entire project period
could be altered to cover local priorities and contexts while formulating the AWPB to make them more
responsive to needs that emerged in the course of project implementation. Financial flexibility granted to
DPEP has supported programmatic flexibility.

Distinct cycles that the project has undergone in terms of the shifting thrust, that began with enrolment and
moved on to retention and student learning, was a clear sign of an evolving system at work that matured
over years of implementation experience.

Innovations/piloting and upscaling : The project recognized the worth of trying out innovations and
piloting such interventions for eventual up scaling. Separate fund allocations for innovative interventions
that were provided on a yearly basis at the state and district levels facilitated innovations in
implementation. It is borne out by experiences of project implementation that many of the regular and large
scale interventions were preceded by a phase of piloting them as innovations.




                                                       - 38 -

Time bound : Attainment of project goals has been tied down to a time period of five to seven years in these
phases of project implementation. This time bound approach has kept the pressure on to sustain the
momentum until the project goals are realized.

Systematic capacity building at all levels : Capacity building has been a key programmatic component of
DPEP right from the stage of formulating the perspective plans through the entire duration of project
implementation. Efforts at capacity building encompassed program functionaries, functionaries of the main
line Education Department, those providing academic and other resource support, teachers, VEC members,
ECE functionaries, etc. A national core team, consisting of faculty from NCERT and NIEPA as well as
consultants provided technical training and support to planning teams and also in conducting project related
studies.

Apart from the fact that the new features and programmatic directions of the project necessitated capacity
building, this was an opportunity for individual skill development in diverse fields that also contributed in
institutional rejuvenation as in the case of DIETs and SCERTs.

Flexibility in Implementation and Financial Rules : There was a clear understanding that plans and
implementation strategies would be tailored according to the variations that existed in the states/districts.
No prototype was attempted in this respect. This allowed for immense flexibility, thereby enhancing the
possibility of better results. Qualitative improvement in strategising and implementation was furthered by
the flexibility to draw upon the best in the system alongside specialists from the open market. Financial
flow and flexibility was made possible by the modus operandi of project implementation. The hazards of
functioning through the regular system were possible to avert by entrusting specially set up SIS to
implement DPEP.

Outreach to Educationally Worst Districts : Reflected in the Design : By design the educationally worst
off district were included in the project because districts with female literacy rate below the national
average qualified for selection under DPEP. Only some districts in the Southern states, the heightened
demand generated for elementary education consequent to a successful total literacy campaign, became a
selection criterion for these districts. Quality improvement was the priority in these districts.

State-center Partnership : A dramatic shift took place when GOI's role became more proactive with its
direct involvement in guiding the planning and implementation process of DPEP. Regular dialogue with the
state Governments enabled the GOI to accelerate the process of implementation through necessary
interventions that sometimes had reform and policy implications.

III.     Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
The setting in which the implementation of DPEP commenced is best described by the `status at entry'
which meant
l Low enrolment, especially of girls
l High dropout rates, especially for girls
l Low levels of achievement
l Poor school infrastructure
l Lack of management capacities
l Low community participation
l Inadequate access to primary education facilities
l Adverse Teacher Pupil Ratio
l System insensitive towards special categories of children (socially backward, first generation learners,
    girls, to name a few)


                                                      - 39 -

The baselines at the commencement of DPEP were varied in the project states. These variations determined
the thrust of the project in the districts included.

DPEP has been able to impact on the basic education indicators and show the way of doing it as well as
make the point that `it is possible'. If the primary project goal is assessed, it is clear that there has been a
surge in enrolment among all categories of children and the gender divides almost eliminated. Enrolment
rates for girls and boys are in sync with the proportion of females to males as per population figures in
Census 2001. Thus, the scope of further improvement in girls' enrolment is limited except in some districts
in the project states.

The baselines for enrolment in the project states in both the phases of DPEP were varied. The baselines for
the DPEP II states were lower than those for the Phase I states. In fact, three of the states in Phase I
(Kerala, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu) had gender difference in enrolment less than five per cent. Over a
period of seven years of implementation, the gender gap has dropped to below five per cent in all the states
except in Madhya Pradesh, which is marginally above the targeted level of difference to be achieved.

Contrasted to this, gender gaps were below five percent in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu
when the Phase II commenced. The striking difference in the baseline status for the two phases of DPEP is
the high gender gaps in three states (16% in Gujarat, 14% in Madhya Pradesh and 22% in Uttar Pradesh).
Though the gender gaps remain wide in these states after five years of implementation, the gains in
narrowing the gender gap have been immense.

In six of the 10 states, the gender gap has declined to below the five per cent mark. Gender gaps in the
enrolment rates of SC children was an issue at the time of starting DPEP I. Three states, viz., Kerala
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu began with a gender gap of less than five percent. Contrasted to this, the
gender gap was very high in Madhya Pradesh followed by Assam, Haryana and Karnataka. After seven
years the situation has improved significantly with the gender gap declining to less than five per cent in all
the states except in Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. In these two states, the gap is six per cent points.

According to baseline data, the proportion of ST girls enrolled was a matter of concern in Karnataka,
Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The consequent high gender gap in these states was an issue to contend
with. However, the scenario has undergone a sea change with significant reduction in the gender gap in
these states. At the end of seven years, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu remain above the targeted gap of
five per cent points.

While on the question of enrolment, the enrolment status of children with disabilities needs to be reflected.
But for Assam, all the other states have been able to mainstream reasonably high proportions of the
children who were identified with disabilities.

Retention Rates : The productivity of the school system can be rated from its capacity to retain children in
schools. This is a basic condition for learning to take place. At project onset, retention rates were low and
dropout rates were high. And correcting this was high on the agenda for DPEP. Table 1 provides the lowest
and highest retention rates in the project districts of DPEP I states at the start of the project.

Table 1 : Retention Rates of DPEP I states at Project Commencement
                                               Range of Retention Rates (%)
     States           Boys            Girls        SC Boys      SC Girls       ST Boys          ST Girls



                                                      - 40 -

 Assam           25.6  49.9     23.5  44.7      32.8  36.2    29.5  38.5 24.2  40.4 20.6  36.8
 Haryana         65.2  91.9     58.6  79.2      49.5  98.5    49.1  78.8       -             -
 Karnataka       45.0  87.0     36.3  70.2      37.2  81.8    28.3  56.6 11.7  86.4 32.4  59.8
 Kerala                 -                -              -             -            -             -
 Maharashtra     32.1  76.8     30.4  65.1      30.4  65.1    25.6 65.1 27.9  65.1 19.9  65.1
 Tamil Nadu      68.1  80.9     73.5  75.7      53.7  73.8    53.0 71.8 28.0 71.8     24.8  68.8
 Source : Staff Appraisal Report, India, District Primary Education Project, November, 1994

According to the above table
l The range in the retention rates speaks for the prevalent diversities in the project districts
l Gaps in retention rates of girls and boys were more than five per cent among all boys and girls, SC
    boys and girls and ST boys and girls
l The retention rates were low at project onset except in Tamil Nadu and in selected project districts in
    the other states.

In understanding the trends of retention, children enrolled in Class I in year one vis--vis enrolment in Class
IV/V in year 4/5 were compared using the DISE data. For Assam, Karnataka and Kerala, the primary
cycle ends with Class IV while in the other states it goes up to Class V.

Tracking  cohorts, Table 2 shows the retention at the end of each cohort beginning in 1995-96, 1996-97,
1997-98 and 1998-99. The retention of SC and ST children has been provided in Table 3. These tables also
provide insights into gender differentials in retention.

Table 2 : Retention Rates of Children Enrolled in Class I in 1995-96, 1996-97, 1997-98 and 1998-99 -
           DPEP I states (%)
Phase I states        1995-96                  1996-97                 1997-98               1998-99
                    (Cohort-I)               (Cohort-II)            (Cohort-III)           (Cohort-IV)
                Boys Girls Total Boys Girls Total Boys Girls Total Boys Girls Total
Assam            33     34      33       24       24      24      24      24     24      26    26     26
Haryana          90     83      87       71       69      70      56      57     57
Karnataka        90     84      87       67       62      64      85      83     84      73    73     73
Kerala           104   103     103       107      106     106    114     112     113     106  104     105
Maharashtra      79     76      78       74       71      73      73      71     72
MP               87     79      83       73       69      71      81      78     80
Tamil Nadu       83     83      83       85       86      85      85      84     85
Total            62     57      60       53       50      52      55      53     54
Source : DISE

Table 3 : Retention Rates of SC and ST Children Enrolled in Class I in 1997-98
     - DPEP I & II states(%)
State                                 SC Children                                ST Children
                           Boys            Girls           Total         Boys       Girls       Total
Assam                       29               28             29            23           21        23
Haryana                     59               56             57
Karnataka                   94               84             89            86           80        83
Maharashtra                 74               70             72            40           37        38
Madhya Pradesh              83               78             81            71           70        70



                                                        - 41 -

Tamil Nadu                   66             64           65           59           59          59
Gujarat                      59             51           55           61           51          57
Himachal Pradesh             65             62           63           66           62          64
Orissa                       57             51           54           51           43          47
Uttar Pradesh                46             45           46           61           65          63
Source: DISE

In recently concluded evaluation studies in selected states of DPEP  I and II the retention of children with
special needs was found to be as follows:

                  Madhya Pradesh                   :       83%
                  Maharashtra                      :       51.33%
                  Tamil Nadu                       :       100%
                  Uttar Pradesh                    :       81.6%

Completion Rates : Cohort studies have been carried out in some of the DPEP states. This was done in all
the schools covered in the DPEP districts by tracking each child enrolled in Class I, four/five years ago
(from the year of the study). A structured format was uniformly used to record child wise progress with
respect to promotion, repetition, transfer and drop out. As the cases of children leaving school with transfer
certificates was negligible, records of such children were not considered while carrying out the analysis.
The objectives of the study were to ascertain the
        proportion of children who complete primary education in the stipulated time period of 4/5 years
        repetition rate of children who remain within the system
        proportion of children dropping out of the primary schooling system

When the findings pertaining to dropout rates are compared to the retention rates, the findings match in the
case of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. However, there is a difference in the case of Maharashtra.

Levels of Learning : To assess the level of learning of students, DPEP had set baselines at project
commencement, which were to be used twice to measure progress  once at the mid point of the project
tenure and then at the end of the project period. The comparable situations of the learning levels of children
have been in the Baseline Assessments (BAS) and Terminal Assessment (TAS) are been presented for
Phase-I and the comparison between Mid-term Assessments (MAS) and TAS for Phase-II districts (TAS
results are in the process of finalization).

While comparing the improvement in students' achievement for TAS over BAS, insofar as the DPEP goal
of improving the learning levels by 25 percent over baseline learner achievement figures the following
picture emerges :
Class I
l Out of 49 districts, the DPEP goal has been achieved in 23 districts in language and in 38 districts in
    mathematics
l There are 6 districts in language and 4 in mathematics where achievement has declined
l Dhar in Madhya Pradesh, Belgaum and Raichur in Karnataka and Wayanad in Kerala are four districts
    in which achievement has declined in both the subjects.
Class III
l Out of 15 districts, 12 in language and 10 in mathematics have achieved the DPEP goal
Class IV
l Out of 34 districts, 27 in language and 25 in mathematics have achieved the DPEP goal.




                                                     - 42 -

Analyses of results reveal the following in respect of achieving the DPEP goal of reducing the differences
in achievement between boys and girls to less than 5 percent.
Class I
l Achieved by 44 districts in language and 40 districts in mathematics.
Class III
l Achieved in 15 out of 15 districts in 1 language and 14 out of 15 districts in mathematics.
Class IV
l Realized in 31 out of 34 districts in language and 31 out of 34 districts in mathematics.


Analyses of results reveal the following in respect of achieving the DPEP goal of reducing the differences
in achievement to less than 5 percent between SC and Others and ST and Others :
SC vs Others  Class I
l Achieved in 38 of the 49 districts in language and 39 of the 49 districts in mathematics
SC vs Others - Class III
l Achieved by 13 of the 15 districts in language and 13 in mathematics
SC vs Others - Class IV
l Achieved in 26 of the 34 districts in language and 30 in mathematics.
ST vs Others - Class I
l Achieved in 29 out of 45 districts in language and 33 out of 45 in mathematics
ST vs Others - Class III
l Achieved in 12 of the 15 districts in language and 10 out of 15 in mathematics
ST vs Others - Class IV
l Out of 30 districts, 20 districts in language and 21 in mathematics have attained the DPEP goal.


The comparative profile of students' achievement on BAS 1996 vs 1999 revealed that 12 out of 17 districts
have shown significant hike in language achievement in class-I and 9 out of them have registered a hike of
more than 10 percent. Against this, none of the three districts of Gujarat in class III have shown significant
improvement in language achievement. In class IV, 8 out of 14 districts have displayed significant
improvement in language achievement. Of them, 5 have registered a hike of more than 10 percent.

Districts have shown significant hike in mathematics achievement in class I and of them 10 districts have
displayed more than 10 percent hike in achievement. None of the districts in Gujarat has shown any sign of
improvement in mathematics achievement in class III. In class IV, 10 out of 14 districts belonging to
Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa have portrayed significant improvement in mathematics
achievement. Of them, 7 districts have registered a hike of more than 10 percent.

The following emerge in regard to reducing the gender differences in achievement levels to less than five
percent :
Class I
l The goal has been attained in both language and mathematics in all the 15 districts across the four
    states.
l Of the remaining districts, Rayagada in Orissa has to bring down the gender differences in achievement
    to less than 5 percent mark in both the subjects.
l The differences in achievement in Kalahandi in language and in Vizianagaram in mathematics also
    need to be brought to the limit of 5 percent
l Differences in achievement found favour with girls in 7 out of 17 districts in language and in 2 out of
    17 districts in mathematics.
Class III


                                                    - 43 -

l All the districts in Gujarat have narrowed the differences in achievement in both the subjects to less
     than five percent. One district in language and two districts in mathematics were such where
     differences in achievement favored girl students.
Class IV
l Genderwise differences in language achievement were found to be far below 5 percent level in all the
     14 districts of Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa. These differences in achievement found
     favour with girls in two districts in Andhra Pradesh and in three districts each in Orissa and Himachal
     Pradesh.
l In mathematics, the achievement differences between boys and girls were found to be less than 5
     percent in 4 out of 5 districts each in Andhra Pradesh and Orissa and all the four districts of Himachal
     Pradesh.
l The differences in achievement in mathematics have found favour with girls in one district each of
     Andhra Pradesh and of Orissa and in all the districts of Himachal Pradesh.
l Districts Warangal in Andhra Pradesh and Bolangir in Orissa are marginally above the DPEP goal in
     mathematics.

It is seen that the DPEP goal of reducing the differences in achievement between SC and Others in Class I
in language has been realized in three districts each in the state of Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and
Orissa and in both the districts in Gujarat. The remaining districts have still to reach the level of the DPEP
goal. The position in respect of ST versus Others is similar to that of SC versus Others. In mathematics, it
is evident from the results that the goal of DPEP of reducing achievement differences between SC and
Others has been realized in eleven out of sixteen districts in the four states. As regards the differences in
achievement in mathematics between ST and Others, the DPEP goal has been realized in seven of the
sixteen districts across the four states.

The analyses of achievement in language in Class III between SC and Others in Gujarat reveals that the
goal of DPEP has been attained in one of the two districts. The differences in achievement between ST and
Others have been reduced to less than five percent in both the districts of the state. In mathematics, the
categorywise differences between SC and Others have been reduced to less than five percent in
Banaskantha and the differences between ST and Others have been reduced to less than five percent in
Panchmahals districts.

The results of differences in achievement in Class IV language between SC and Others reveal attainment in
the case of all the ten districts of Andhra Pradesh and Orissa and in three districts of Himachal Pradesh.
The differences in achievement between ST and Others have also been reduced to the DPEP ceiling of less
than five percent in four districts each of Andhra Pradesh and Orissa and in two districts of Himachal
Pradesh. In Class IV mathematics, the differences in achievement between SC and Others have been
reduced to less than five percent in four out of five districts both in Andhra Pradesh and Orissa and three
out of four in Himachal Pradesh. In respect of ST and Others the achievement differences have been
observed to be less than five percent in three districts of Orissa and in two districts each of Andhra Pradesh
and Himachal Pradesh.

Using the district achievement results in the subjects for children in different classes, tables have been
generated on achievement levels to provide the comparative picture of class wise student achievement levels
in Language and Mathematics (separately for Phase I and II) for the project states as a whole. After this,
the levels of learning by gender, SC and ST are presented in the same format.

As the Baseline, Midterm and Terminal Assessment Studies were conducted in sample schools and
districts, it was necessary to calculate the weighted mean (Wt.Mean) for the state using the district specific


                                                     - 44 -

rates. The weighted means for the state have been calculated by using the given sample size and means for
individual districts in the state. As a first step the sample and mean for a district is multiplied and the result
of this operation for all the districts added. This figure is then divided by the sum of the district sample in
each state to arrive at the weighted mean.

Access : Access to primary education facilities was one of the prime concerns of the project as it was
committed to provide the facility in formal and non-formal settings in order to include all children in
primary education. The 86,850 new schools opened in the DPEP districts has made it possible to provide a
primary school within a radius of one kilometer. This large scale infrastructural growth has significantly
impacted on access to primary schooling facilities. That the gap in access at the primary level has either
been eliminated or is close to elimination is clear from the infrastructural requirements for the primary level
articulated in the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) plans for DPEP districts. In the DPEP districts, 83,500
alternative schooling centers have been set up through which 3.6 million children have been reached. This
intervention has increased the reach and coverage of children in small habitations and also those in difficult
situations. Access to children with disabilities has improved with focused attention of the project on the
identification and mainstreaming of these children.

Institutional Capacity Building : Substantial investments have been made by DPEP towards institutional
capacity building that operationalised new institutions (SIEMAT) and rejuvenated existing institutions
(SCERT and DIET). The SIEMAT at Allahabad, that was set up under the UPBEP transformed into a
vibrant institution that constantly catered to the planning and educational management needs of DPEP in
Uttar Pradesh. DPEP provided this SIEMAT the opportunity of associating with one of the largest primary
education interventions in the state that has helped to build its credibility across the region. Under DPEP,
SIEMATs have been set up in Haryana, Maharashtra and Orissa. In these states, the project not only set up
the institutions but also took the initiative of activizing them by involving them in planning and research
activities.

Strengthening SCERTs was a conscious decision of DPEP. This was done by posting additional faculty,
providing equipment and scope for faculty/institutional enrichment. The underpinning of this was to expand
the role of SCERT in primary education delivery and help it to perform its role to potential/as expected.
The experience with SCERTs has been different in the project states. In Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, the SCERTs have been the prime moving factor in the curriculum and
textbook renewal process, development of teacher training modules, development of teaching learning
material / supplementary learning material, conducting research and evaluation. The other situation had the
project take the lead in the pedagogic arena with active support from the SCERTs. States such as Uttar
Pradesh operated along these lines and a close partnership between the project and SCERT was
established. In the case of some states, the process of getting SCERT on board was prolonged and ridden
with obstacles. While there are instances from this set of states of the project and SCERT falling in step,
they continue to function as parallel entities only in a few cases.

The start up for pedagogic activities under SSA is promising in the DPEP states as the basic groundwork
has been done by the project. SSA will have to focus more on the upper primary level. Contrasted to this,
the non-DPEP states will have to begin from the stage of primary education. DIETs had been in position
prior to DPEP in many districts with a limited set of activities confined primarily to teacher training. DPEP
planned its investments in the DIETs to bring them into the thick of pedagogic activities. With pressure
from the project, vacant positions have been gradually filled up and with stronger teams the DIETs are now
engaged in teacher training, curriculum and textbook renewal, ECE, supervision, and monitoring. In a way,
DPEP has been able to get the DIETs to provide academic leadership as was envisaged.




                                                        - 45 -

Capacity building efforts made it possible to ground the whole new concept of academic resource support
closer to the school, at the CRC and BRC levels. These have now become active hub centers of academic
exchange, enrichment and regular support to the quality aspect of primary education. The subject
specialists or resource persons attached to these centers in some states have further impacted on the quality
of the teaching learning process in school. The varied models for providing academic support in the states
have been designed to gel with their existing systems and structures.

Besides this, DPEP's outward looking approach has encouraged localizing resources and outsourcing
resources/institutions. Local institutions were involved to the extent possible and the expertise of national
institutions such as the Indian Institutes of Management, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, NSDART, etc
were accessed as and when necessary. The opportunity afforded to local institutions/organisations to work
with national/specialized institutions has contributed in the growth of the former and reduced state
dependence on resources from outside the state.

IV.      Major Factors affecting Implementation and Outcomes
There have been several factors that facilitated project implementation and enabled positive outcomes of
efforts under DPEP. Some of the key factors are described below.

Working through SIS : The many advantages of working through specially set up state Implemented
Societies have made it possible to record good progress. With an empowered management structure,
located within the systems of the state Government, with a certain degree of autonomy, quick
administrative decisions have been possible. Working through its own bank account the society has ensured
timely and uninterrupted fund flow. The working of the society and the operational flexibility it enjoyed
have led to a range of activities that has created an euphoria about primary education. The resultant
heightened stature of primary education in the states has made it possible to garner state support for timely
release of state shares of the project budget, placement of effective Project Directors and Education
Secretaries.

Induction of the `best' Staff for Project Implementation : DPEP has been able to draw upon the services of
the best in the system and outside it. This freedom to choose the team at all levels of operation has made a
big difference to the quality of human resource at the disposal of the project. To ensure that the `best'
actually enter the project delivery system, DPEP had followed very rigorous and elaborate selection
processes that enabled the selectors to go into greater depth about each individual.

Facilitative Funding Mechanism : A major boost to the sector as well as to the state Governments came
with the GOI picking up 85 percent of the project cost and the state having to bear a meager 15 percent of
the project cost.

Proactive role of Central Government : The role of the Central Government gained a new profile under
DPEP. A dedicated team at the helm of affairs has been an enabling factor that has successfully synergised
the center  state partnership in providing elementary education. Through the joint review missions (JRM),
attendance in Executive Committee meetings, follow up of field level processes through regular MIS
reports and state visits, the GOI has not only kept itself informed but has been able to effectively guide and
influence major implementation issues and even reorient policy at state level.




                                                     - 46 -

Decentralization : Decentralization in terms of the district as the unit of planning and the process of
planning that allowed voices from the grassroots to influence the district plans have made a qualitative
difference to the vision enshrined in the plans and their implementation. Even the `never heard' got an
opportunity to express their views on the education system, their expectations from it and aspirations for
their children's education. The participatory spirit has characterized the entire duration of project
implementation. When unforeseen needs emerged, often from the grassroots, these issues were taken up for
addressal in subsequent plans. The flexibility to change course has been possible as a consequence of
decentralization. Decentralization received a fillip with setting up of VECs/SMCs as local level people's
bodies for education. The activation of the Panchayati Raj system and delegation of powers to the
Panchayati Raj Institutions, for whom education is one of the several responsibilities, also carried forward
the spirit of decentralization. These together with the fact that DPEP has set a trend of primary education
delivery in active partnership with the community are major successes of the project.

Reference points of Local accountability : The vision to create VECs was indeed farsighted as it formed
the base for people's involvement in primary education, unsurpassed enthusiasm and commitment in the
community has been experienced in several parts of the project area. A spin off from this has been the
formation of other informal community groups with different configurations. The close ties between the
community and schools have reversed community attitudes towards governmental facilities for primary
education. It has also created referral points of local accountability that keep a check on the performance of
the school and demand transparency in functioning of the school.

Convergence : A convergent mode of operation has brought in greater resource support for the project both
in human and material terms. At the outset, convergence with the ICDS was articulated in the guidelines.
Similar convergence has also been mandated to optimize benefits to children with disabilities. Keeping this
in mind DPEP entered into an agreement with Rehabilitation Council of India, a statutory body under the
Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, to provide 45-day training to teachers. The MoU with
ALIMCO (a company that produces aids and appliances) to provide aids and appliances to the needy
children, on a cost sharing ratio of 60:40 with ALIMCO bearing 60 per cent of the cost and the remaining
40 per cent is borne by DPEP Societies. Mainstreaming children with disabilities in regular schools has
been possible through strong networking with specialized institutions, agencies and experts. The project
objectives were also furthered through convergence with the department of Rural Development, Pradhan
Mantri Gramodaya Yojana, Operation Blackboard, funds from the 10th Finance Commission and Drought
Relief, in school infrastructure development efforts.

Alternatives in Education Facilities : Use of alternative models of primary education facilities enabled
DPEP to plan for the inclusion of several categories of children and also cover small habitations that do not
qualify for formal schools if the state norms for setting up new schools were to be applied. Alternative
schooling gained in exponential growth in DPEP, both in numbers and the variety of models.

Widespread Support : Multi-directional support that was forthcoming from various quarters enriched the
project immensely. The initial slow response of academic institutions, social science/development
institutions, educationists, NGOs, etc is the manifestation of caution exercised in treading the unknown.
Persistent efforts by program managers successfully built partnerships with many of them. A lot of interest
has since been generated. Today they have joined hands with the Government to respond meaningfully to
the challenges of primary education.

Reform and Policy Implications : The experience of implementing DPEP has highlighted the need for
reform and policy reorientation. Steps taken to effect reform and provide policy support have in turn
strengthened the implementation arm of the project, e.g. para teachers, various alternative schooling


                                                      - 47 -

models, textbook development and production, and distribution systems, teacher support structures, teacher
rationalization, maintenance grants to schools, etc.

Contrasted to the supportive factors, there were factors that adversely affected the implementation process
and outcomes of the project. Some of these are:

Uncertain Tenure of Leadership : Occasionally, the momentum of the project has been arrested as a fallout
of frequent, untimely or abrupt transfer of leadership. This had a very unsettling effect on the
implementation process. Results did not show up because of the short tenure that the leadership was
allowed in the project. Such periodic slowing of project implementation has adversely affected the overall
outcomes.

Weak Operational links with Mainline Education System : Though the project was required to work hand
in hand with primary school teachers and functionaries of the mainline education department, project
implementation was hindered because the project did not have administrative control over them. Resistance
to falling in line with the project originated in the perception of the project being outside the education
system. The slow response came in the way of teacher training programs and partnering on issues of
supervision and monitoring. It took time to establish this critical link and synergise efforts to reach the
targeted goals. This situation at times made it appear like parallel systems were working on UEE.

Ripple Effect : DPEP Initiatives taken to Scale : Striking examples of the ripple effect of DPEP
interventions have been in the areas of :
l Universalizing the use of textbooks, workbooks, teacher guides, and pupil evaluation methods
    developed by DPEP in the state. The benefits of a coherent pedagogical approach have thereby reached
    all the children in the state
l Successfully pitching primary education as important for all children and generating community
    enthusiasm that has transformed into a willingness to participate in the education system
l Expanding the concept of academic support structures throughout the country
l Streamlining the education system
l Creating space for the community to take active interest in primary education, VECs were set up
    across         states as a consequence of the learnings from DPEP
l Establishing links between ECE and primary education through generic Government orders applicable
    in the entire state
The opportunity to bring out the best in teachers has paid rich dividends by way of realizing the potentials
of teachers that lay dormant. Their creative potential has been exploited to impact in classroom processes
through different means. Teachers have conducted action researches that have brought in significant issues.


DPEP has successfully sown the seeds of decentralized and participatory planning in elementary education.
This is evident from the quality and depth of the District Elementary Education Plans developed under SSA
in DPEP and non  DPEP districts.




                                                       - 48 -

V.       Sustainability
What DPEP has demonstrated as `possible' and `beneficial' to the delivery of primary education needs to
be continued and integrated with the educational systems and structures in place. Living up to their
commitments, state Governments have taken landmark decisions to continue the academic support
structures created in the project districts and the teachers recruited under DPEP. State enactments on local
self-government have not only defined the working of the community and the schools, they have also
ensured that the bonding between the community and school is lasting and strong. Committed to sustained
universal access to primary education facilities, states have made policy articulations on alternative modes
of education and para teachers. The latter policy has helped sustain a balance in the teacher pupil ratio. The
Central scheme of Education Guarantee Scheme and Alternative Education has added strength to state
resolve at universal access and inclusion of the difficult groups of children as well as children in small
habitations that do not qualify for formal primary schools.

DPEP has successfully run different models of ECE centers that have contributed in children's smooth
transition to the primary level. An understanding between the Departments of Women and Child
Development and Elementary Education and Literacy at the national level has improved the prospects of
keeping alive this vital link between the pre-primary and primary levels. ECE centers started by DPEP will
be sustained as ICDS centers after DPEP comes to a close (vide letter DO No 3-7/2002  CD  21 dated
23.12.2002, issued by Joint Secretary, Department of Women and Child). The examples of states having
started a year of pre-primary schooling by the Education Department speaks for the commitment towards
quality education through provisioning a supportive environment from the early stages of child
development.

With the introduction of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, sustaining the demonstrated gains of DPEP has been
assured, at least until 2010. In many ways this decade long program will be following the footsteps of
DPEP in regard to structures and processes that will necessitate it to sustain what DPEP initiated.

VI. Borrower Performance
The DPEP Bureau
The project development team set up to formulate the DPEP project was, with the commencement of DPEP
I, expanded to form a full time DPEP Bureau in the Education Department.

The DPEP Bureau as the focal point for the implementation of DPEP was responsible for the coordination,
appraisal, financial management, supervision and evaluation of state and district programs. It has also
provided critical programmatic and policy support to the states and assisted them in maintaining the pace of
progress. Where necessary these are supplemented through Internal Supervision Missions. Overall in
charge of implementation of DPEP, the Bureau functioned with the active support of specialized
institutions across the country and particularly in close coordination with the TSG for DPEP.

In its functioning, clear division of responsibilities had been laid down for the officers in the Bureau. For
each state, the Deputy Secretary/Director supervises and monitors the progress as the GOI nominee on the
Executive Committee of the SIS, as also regularly monitors program performance through quarterly
reports, EMIS and Project Management Information System reports, state visits and appraisal of AWPB.
These officers clear the release of funds to state societies on assessment of financial performance.
This arrangement has worked very effectively in
        quick and detailed monitoring, and
        responding to states' requirements in ways that are supportive of their needs.
The Bureau also coordinates meetings of the Project Board and JRMs, guides the process of formulation of



                                                       - 49 -

annual plans and budget allocations for DPEP, release of funds to states, audit of DPEP, answers to
Parliament, coordination with states and national level institutions like NCERT, NIEPA etc.

This CSS was with a difference. It has redefined the role of the GOI such that it was able to lean on states
for policy, changes, and improvements in both the policy and funding frameworks in the primary education
sector. It provided leverage to the center. The Bureau's contribution has been critical in the way it provided
leadership to facilitate program development and implementation and in charting the course of the project in
tune with field level changes and reoriented policy. This operational arrangement at the center has proved to
be a very effective administrative mechanism for tracking implementation in the states.

The role played by the Bureau is captured in the paragraphs below.

Design of Frameworks : Using the DPEP guidelines as the basis, the Bureau designed frameworks
covering the planning, operational, implementation and financial aspects of programming. Elaborated
versions of these frameworks were often provided to the states in the form of manuals and explanatory
notes that helped them understand the requirements and enabled them to act accordingly.
Garnering Resource Support : The Bureau has been able to bring specialist institutions and the whole
body of resource support at national level to contribute to the multidimensional needs of the project.
Problem Solving : Problem solving and backstopping has been part of the role played by the Bureau. As
the apex facilitative unit in the management structure, it has stepped in on every occasion to support states
in project implementation and consolidate project efforts through convergence.
Influencing Decision and Policy : It goes without saying that progress in the primary education sector
hinges critically on timely decisions and supportive policy. The Bureau has been very particular in handling
both these critical aspects in order to sustain the rate of implementation.
Role in Media : With concerted efforts of the Bureau, the very profile of primary education in the country
got a boost. Besides positive image building, efforts led to constructive debates on primary education that
offered practical and workable suggestions.
Creation of Separate Department : Realizing the expanding role of a dedicated arm of the central structure
the logical expansion of the DPEP Bureau has culminated in the creation of a separate Department of
Elementary Education and Literacy.
Constitution Eighty Sixth Amendment Act, 2001 : This constitutional amendment has bound the state to
"provide free and compulsory education to all children of the age of six to fourteen years" (Article 21 of the
Fundamental Rights). Further, "the state shall endeavor to provide early childhood care and education for
all children until they complete the age of six years" (Article 45 of the Directive Principles of State Policy).

Technical Support Group for DPEP
The need for technical services in key areas was deemed essential for successful implementation of DPEP.
It was recognized that a regular technical support mechanism would have to be installed to work in
coordination with the DPEP Bureau and the states. Fulfilling this need the TSG was set up. Since its
inception the TSG has been providing critical support to program management and has responded well to
the demands made from it at national and state levels. Some of the distinctive features of this group in
terms of its role and modus operandi are described below :




                                                       - 50 -

Unique, flexible, and Active Resource Support : Setting up a special technical services organization was
unique to DPEP. The flexible conditions of working made it the focal point of active resource support for
the states and the larger program management.
Geared to meet Project Demands : New systems and approaches introduced by the project were possible
to follow/adapt with this hub center of resources. It helped in syncretizing the approaches, operationalise
them and systematize them. Several good examples of this are procurement and disbursement, MIS,
planning, supervision, appraisal, AWPB formulation, levels of clearances, and financial organization.
Hands on Involvement : The TSG has played a significant role at the center as well as in the states. It has
contributed immensely in structuring supervision, carrying out extensive documentation  what has been a
marrying process documentation and field visits  helping to institutionalize the DISE, building a ground
swell for greater community involvement, improving the quality of school infrastructure, creating material,
etc.
Direct Resource Support : The TSG for DPEP had extended technical assistance to states for major
functional areas which include alternative schooling, appraisal and supervision, civil works, community
mobilization and VEC, gender and ECE, IED, management information system, pedagogical improvement,
planning, procurement and disbursement, research, evaluation and studies, documentation, media. Through
its hands on association, TSG has successfully developed relevant and desirable elements into the primary
education system.

These units, apart from providing technical support, have participated in appraisals, organized cross state
sharing through workshops and documentation, provided special help to weaker states, helped in building
capacity in state institutions, and captured national and international resources to assist states. Process
documentation, organization of workshops, and conceptual redesigning was possible largely because of
TSG.

Civil Works : The civil works unit assisted in giving a direction to the investments proposed under civil
works with design elements that were child friendly, supportive of the new pedagogy and cost effective.
With efforts at the national level, community participation in civil works has been made a reality. Repairs
and maintenance of school infrastructure received due emphasis as effective means of infrastructure
improvement. To be able to meet many of these requirements under DPEP, perspective building was
necessary. This task was performed by the team of consultants in the civil works unit.

Pedagogy : Pedagogical reform has, from the beginning, been the cornerstone of DPEP strategy. The
program has adopted a multi pronged effort to bring about a change in this area to facilitate effective
learning. Considerable emphasis has been placed on promoting activity based and child centered pedagogy,
mandating the establishment of and strengthening academic support systems, renewal of curriculum and
teaching learning material and appropriate training programs for teachers. Harnessing the potential of the
DIETs and SCERT in the pedagogic arena was attempted through interactions and capacity building
efforts. state visits, National workshops, development of base papers, discussions, involvement in capacity
building and material development efforts in the states were the various ways in which the pedagogy unit
supported pedagogical reform in the project states.

Gender : Gender sensitivity was a pre-condition for planning and implementation in DPEP. Consequently
this sensitivity had to be inculcated across all levels in all aspects of program planning and implementation.
This was a challenge undertaken by the Gender Unit. Despite resistance, the unit's persistent efforts have
been able to create a supportive environment for girls' education. At least the initial barriers are broken and
there is wider acceptance of the importance of focusing on improving the participation rate of girls for
realizing UEE. Interventions have facilitated in planning for gender under DPEP, community mobilization
for girls' education, gender sensitization of teachers and educational staff, analysis and usage of MIS data


                                                      - 51 -

for program planning, designing micro level strategies for girls' education, creating supportive classroom
processes from the gender angle, monitoring girls' education etc.

Integrated Education for the Disabled (IED) : The most significant contribution of the IED unit has been
to bring issues of mainstreaming children with disabilities to the fore. It has helped the states to grapple
with this very challenging aspect of DPEP with sound technical inputs. Apart from the technical inputs to
teachers to deal with children with disabilities, the introduction of barrier free environment in the schools
has factored the large presence of children with disabilities in the formal primary schools. These qualitative
changes in the field were possible with support from the IED Unit.

Alternative Schooling : The alternative schooling unit has assisted states in developing conceptual clarity
about this approach for harnessing the out of school children. This brought about a significant turn in the
efforts at provisioning primary education. It drew upon resources in the country to learn from past
experiences of implementing alternative schooling models. This has helped to create a broad-based
understanding of issues and informed the states of the range of options to model their strategies. This unit
contributed in the formulation of the central scheme of the Education Guarantee Scheme and Alternative
Intergrated Education Scheme, an integral part of the strategy under SSA.

Changing roles : In the initial years' the TSG played a more proactive role in servicing the states,
provoking the states to concretise their strategies and put systems in place. Over the years this role had
changed and the need for central support reduced, as many states were able to go forward on their own.
Capacities were adequately built with this model of central technical support. Presently the TSG performs a
more supervisory role and helps to disseminate good practices across the country, develop documentation
--all of which helps states in refining their approaches and interventions to be on track with their contexts
and needs.

The last two sections of this reflection are included in the main text of this report.




                                                      - 52 -

- 53 -

