CREDIT NUMBER 2661 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(District Primary Education Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   D2--, 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2661 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      , 1994, between INDIA,
acting by its President, (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B)   the Project will be carried out by the States of Assam,
Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu (the Project
States) with the assistance respectively of the Assam Prathamik
Shiksha Achani Parishad (APSAP); Haryana Prathamik Shiksha
Pariyojana Parishad (HPSPP); Karnataka Prathamik Shiksha Vikas
Yojana (KPSVY); Tamil Nadu State Mission of Education for All (TNE);
Maharashtra Prathamik Shiksha Parishad (MPSP); and Primary Education
Development Society of Kerala (PEDSK) (collectively referred to
hereinafter as State Implementation Societies) as well as the
assistance of the Borrower and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Project States and the State
Implementation Societies the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date between the Association of one part and the
Project States of the other part;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)   "Assam" means the Borrower's state of Assam, or any
successor thereto;
(b)   "Assam Society" means Assam Prathamik Shiksha Achani
Parishad  (APSAP), a registered society under the Borrower's
Societies Registration Act;
(c)   "DIET" means District Institute for Education and
Training;
(d)   "DPEP" means the Borrower's District Primary Education
Program;
(e)   "ECE" means Early Childhood Education;
(f)   "Haryana" means the Borrower's state of Haryana, or any
successor thereto;
(g)   "Haryana Society" means Haryana Prathamik Shiksha
Pariyojana Parishad (HPSPP), a registered society under the
Borrower's Societies Registration Act;
(h)   "Karnataka" means the Borrower's state of Karnataka, or
any successor thereto;
(i)   "Karnataka Society" means Karnataka Prathamik Shiksha
Vikas Yojana (KPSVY), a registered society under the Borrower's
Societies Registration Act;
(j)   "Kerala" means the Borrower's state of Kerala, or any
successor thereto;
(k)   "Kerala Society" means Primary Education Development
Society of Kerala (PEDSK), a registered society under the Borrower's
Societies Registration Act;
(1)   "Maharashtra" means the Borrower's state of Maharashtra,
or any successor thereto;
(m)   "Maharashtra  Society" means Maharashtra    Prathamik
Shiksha Parishad (MPSP);
(n)   "MIS" means management information system;
(o)  "MLL" means minimum levels of learning;


﻿-3-
(p)   "NCERT" means the Borrower's National      Council of
Educational Research and Training;
(q)   "primary  education"  means   the  lower   section  of
elementary education (classes 1 through 4 or classes 1 through 5,
depending upon State norms);
(r)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association of the one part and the Project
States of the other part, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(s)   "Project Districts" means the districts in Project
States designated as such by the Association;
(t)   "Project State" means Assam, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala,
Maharashtra or Tamil Nadu and "Project States" means all of these
States collectively;
(u)   "SCERT" means a State Council of Educational Research
and Training;
(v)   "SIEMT" means the State Institute for Educational
Management and Training of a Project State to be established or
strengthened pursuant to the Project;
(w)   "Scheduled Castes" refers to the population groups
specified as "Scheduled Castes" pursuant to Article 341 of the
Constitution of India;
(x)   "Scheduled Tribes" refers to the population groups
specified as "Scheduled Tribes" pursuant to Article 342 of the
Constitution of India;
(y)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(z)   "State" means a State of the Borrower;
(aa) "State Implementation Society" means each of the
following: the Assam Society, the Haryana Society, the Karnataka
Society, the Kerala Society, the Maharashtra Society or the Tamil
Nadu Society; and "State Implementation Societies" means all of them
collectively;


﻿-4-
(ab) "Tamil Nadu" means the Borrower's state of Tamil Nadu,
or any successor thereto; and
(ac) "Tamil Nadu Society" means Tamil Nadu State Mission of
Education for All (TNE), registered as a society under the
Borrower's Societies Registration Act.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
eighty million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 180,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes. of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.   Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitmient charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate


﻿-5-
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1,
commencing April 1, 2005 and ending October 1, 2029. Each install-
ment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2014
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on


﻿- 6 -
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall (i)
cause the Project States and State Implementation Societies to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the respective obligations of the Project States and State
Implementation Societies set forth therein, shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
Project States and State Implementation Societies to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and (ii)
carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
educational practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Project States in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of
India and to State Implementation Societies under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association.


﻿-7-
(c)   Without prejudice to the generality of any other
provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that  State
Implementation Societies receive Project funds on a six monthly
basis, in a timely manner, for anticipated expenditures under their
approved annual work plans.
(d)   The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out,
or carry out Part A of the Project, in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out jointly and severally by the Project
States and the State Implementation Societies pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Burrower shall carry out the District
Primary Education Program in the Project States G-d shall not make
any change to such Program, including in respect of its financial
and administrative procedures, that would, in the reasonable opinion
of the Association, materially and adversely affect the ability of
the Borrower or any Project State to carry out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
activities related to the Project, of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.


﻿-8-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors    acceptable   to    the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, certified copies of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
account, reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that all records     (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records.
(d)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,


﻿- 9 -
in   accordance   with    appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors  as  to   whether  the   statements  of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any Project State shall have failed to perform any of
its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that a Project State will perform its
respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower or any Project State with respect to
itself, shall have failed to carry out the District Primary
Education Program in a manner that, in the reasonable opinion of the
Association, materially and adversely affects the objectives or
implementation of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
(d)   Any Project State shall have reduced the level of its
budgetary expenditure for primary education (net of Project expendi-
tures) below the level, in constant terms, of such expenditure in
the Borrower's financial year 1991-1992.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and the concerned Project State.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by each Project State respectively
and is legally binding upon each of them in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Director,
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                Telex:
ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
2 All,-
ByAl                     VL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works            35,330,000        90%
(2)   Equipment,             20,680,000        100% of foreign
vehicles,                                expenditures,
books and                                100% of local
furniture                                expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures
for other
items procured
locally
(3)   Consultant             35,950,000        100%
services,
fellowships
and training


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Categgr              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4)   Incremental             73,290,000        90% of local
salaries, honoraria                       expenditures
for volunteers,                           incurred until
consumable teaching                       September 30
materials and operation                   1997; 80% of
and maintenance costs                     expenditures
incurred
from October 1,
1997 until
September 30,
2000; and 60% of
expenditures
incurred
thereafter
(5)   Unallocated             14,750,000
TOTAL             180,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "incremental operation and maintenance costs"
means operation and maintenance costs for the Project pursuant to
DPEP, incurred on or after March 1, 1994; and "incremental staff
salaries" means salaries paid in respect of posts created for the
Project pursuant to DPEP, including consulting or contractual
services, on or after March 1, 1994.


﻿- 15 -
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures incurred prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 5,540,000, may be made on account of payments made for expendi-
tures before that date but after March 1, 1994.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding $300,000
equivalent; (b) services under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent
for employment of individual consultants respectively; (c) training
and fellowships; (d) works procured under force account; and (e)
incremental salaries, incremental operational and maintenance costs
and honoraria for volunteers, all under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to build national,
state and district level managerial and professional capacity for
sustainable primary education development, decrease drop out rates,
increase learning achievement, improve access to primary education,
in particular for female students as well as scheduled caste and
tribal students, and enhance community participation in primary
education in the Project States and Project Districts.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Association from time to time:
Part A:     Building National Institutional Capacity
(1)   DPEP Bureau: (a) Establishment of a DPEP Bureau in the
Borrower's Department of Education with responsibility for
appraisal,  technical   assistance,  implementation  supervision,
research, evaluation and monitoring; and (b) strengthening the DPEP
Bureau's capacity for carrying out such technical and professional
activities.
(2)   School  Statistics  and  MIS:   (a)  Development  of   core
specifications for computerized MIS systems, through specialized
educational institutions, for adaptation by Project States, ensuring
that State-level systems are mutually compatible; (b) developing
prototype training courses for use in implementing such systems at
national, State and district levels; and (c) training of master
trainers at the State level for the implementation of such systems.
(3)   Teacher In-Service Training: Establishment of a National
Training Resource Group in a specialized educational institution to
improve classroom teaching through in-service training by: (a)
identifying best practices in-service teacher training in India,
evaluating designs and materials and disseminating selected models
to States; (b) developing field-tested prototype teacher in-service
training designs and materials; and (c) assisting Project States
with: (i) development of capacity for adapting prototype training
designs and materials; (ii) developing State and district-specific
designs and materials; and (iii) conducting formative evaluation
activities aimed at improving in-service courses.


﻿- 17 -
(4)   Program Evaluation and Research: Establishment of a national
program for evaluation, research and studies administered through a
specialized educational institution to: (a) improve the educational
research and evaluation capacity of national and State-level
research organizations; (b) organize international conferences and
study tours on primary education research and evaluation; (c)
conduct or commission systematic studies and evaluations in primary
education; and (d) disseminate the results of such studies to
national, State and district Project management as well as
internationally, through reports, seminars and newsletters.
(5)   Program  for  Improved Pedagogy:   (a) Identification   and
dissemination of best practices, information and learning materials
on pedagogical practices; (b) provision of access to, and
dissemination of, international research on and new approaches to
primary reading and mathematics competencies; (c) research into
reading readiness and difficulties in classes 1 and 2 including
identification of competencies on which performance is weak; (d)
development of comprehensive, research-based, field-tested prototype
packages of instructional materials based on MLL and of integrated
and active learning techniques for reading and mathematics
development in early primary grades; (e) provision of technical
assistance to Project States and Project Districts for the
implementation of improved pedagogy in relation to MLL; (f)
improvement of design layout and production of instructional
materials such as textbooks and teaching/learning materials; and (g)
provision of training and technical assistance to strengthen the
capacity of the Project States for instructional materials
development and publication through State agencies.
(6)   Educational Planning and Management: Provision of technical
support and consulting services to develop capacity of Project
States   in  (a)   establishing  and   strengthening  State-level
units/institutions of education planning and management; (b)
developing prototype training packages and organizing training for
Project planning and management; (c) strengthening district level
education planning; and (d) developing skills in effective use of
MIS for education planning and management.
(7)   Tribal  Students:  Carrying  out   national  research  and
development activities to support programs of special emphasis for
tribal students undertaken by Project States and Districts.


﻿- 18 -
(8)   Project Preparation Facility: Establishment of a facility to
support preparation of primary education projects outside Project
States or Project Districts.
(9)   Innovative Activities: Establishment of a facility to support
innovative but untested approaches to improve primary education.
(10) International   Cooperation:   Strengthening   international
technical collaboration in the development of primary education
inter alia through international conferences, international study
tours and training and collaborative arrangements with international
consultants.
Part B:     Buildin Institutional Capacity of Project States
(1)   Improved Instructional Materials Development and Production:
Improving the quality and efficiency of textbook production and
distribution inter alia by: (a) the preparation of instructional
materials based on MLL; (b) field piloting of print materials prior
to publication; (c) improvements in textbook design, illustration,
layout and durability; (d) computerization of inventory management;
and (e) professional training for textbook agency staff.
(2)   Improved Teaching: Strengthening the    capacity of State
Councils for Educational Research and Training (SCERTs) or
equivalent  organizations  in  Project  States  to   support  the
development of improved classroom teaching models and teacher in-
service training inter alia by: (a) provision of training and
technical assistance to DIETs; (b) adaptation of national prototype
training and classroom materials in regional languages; (c) training
of master trainers; (d) adaptation, development, testing and
dissemination of early childhood education materials; and (e)
development of learning materials in tribal languages.
(3)   Improved  Planning   and  Management:   Establishment   and
strengthening of SIEMTs or equivalent agencies, to provide technical
assistance and training in education planning, management and
monitoring to state and district level education staff.
(4)   Improved Educational Research and Evaluation: Strengthening
and expansion of SCERTs to: (a) conduct program evaluation and
research studies; and (b) build capacity in DIETs to conduct program
evaluation and research studies.


﻿- 19 -
Part C:     Improving Quality and Access in Primary Education:
(1)   Building District Level Institutional Capacity
(a)   Establishment of District Project Committees in Project
Districts;
(b)   establishment of new school statistics MIS system at the
district level system in Project Districts;
(c)   establishment and strengthening of DIETs; and
(d)   carrying out pilot projects to      strengthen  school
supervision.
(2)   Reducing Dropout
(a)   Strengthening   school/community   organizations    to
facilitate operations of schools and non-formal education centers,
conducting annual surveys of village children to identify non-
enrollers and drop-outs and encouraging parents to send children to
school and retain them in school;
(b)   repair, rehabilitation and maintenance of existing
schools, including the installation and maintenance of toilets,
water supply and electricity; and
(c)   carrying out awareness campaigns to increase awareness
about primary education and its benefits to communities and schools.
(3)   Improving Learning Achievement:
Improving the quality and effectiveness of classroom
instruction to improve learning achievement by: (a) development of
teacher in-service training to improve classroom practice for multi-
grade teaching and preparation of teaching aids and instructional
materials for teaching language and mathematics in early grades by
development of initial designs and systems for training trainers and
teachers; (b) development of the physical infrastructure needed to
bring training to the block and school cluster level; (c) expansion
of the variety of learning materials and teaching aids in schools
through grants to school/community organizations; (d) development
and implementation of targeted interventions on behalf of female
students as well as scheduled caste and scheduled tribe students;


﻿- 20 -
and (e) expansion or introduction of early childhood education
through evaluated pilot programs.
(4)   Improving Access
Carrying out of the following in Project Districts: (a)
Construction of new schools and classrooms as well as provision of
teachers to create approximately 470,000 new student places in new
schools and classrooms; (b) provision of teachers required by
enrollment expansion in existing schools; and (c) establishment of
non-formal primary classes for out-of-school children who cannot be
reached by formal schools.
The Project is expected to be completed b1y September 30, 2001.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall: (a) carry out, and shall cause the Project
States and the State Implementation Societies to carry out, the
District Primary Education Program; and (b) shall discuss with the
Association any proposed change to the District Primary Education
Program which may, in the reasonable opinion of the Association,
adversely and materially affect the objectives or implementation of
the Project.
2.    (a)   The Borrower shall carry out Parts A(5), A(6) and A(7)
of the Project, with the assistance, where required, of institutions
acceptable to the Association, under appropriate arrangements,
including terms of reference, acceptable to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall select the institutions, and enter
into the arrangements referred to in paragraph 2(a) of this Schedule
by June 30, 1995.
3.    The Borrower shall carry out Part A(8) of the Project in any
district acceptable to the Association.
4.    The Borrower shall carry out by December 1, 1997, a review of
the management arrangements of State Societies, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association.
5.    The Borrower shall maintain the DPEP Bureau in its Department
of Education, with adequate staff, resources and facilities, and
with terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
6.    The Borrower shall establish DIETs and appoint key staff at
such DIETs by January 31, 1996.
7.    Without limitation to the generality of any other provision of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i)    review annually with the Association progress in
Project implementation and Credit disbursements
over the preceding twelve months;


﻿- 22 -
(ii)    discuss with the Association by January 31 of
each year, annual work plans and budgets for the
next twelve months;
(iii)    ensure that assessment studies, with scope and
content acceptable to the Association, are
carried out in all Project Districts in the third
and sixth calendar years following the calendar
year in which Project implementation commenced;
(iv)    carry out, no later than June 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Association shall establish,
along with the Association, a mid-term review of
the  Project,   with  particular   reference  to
improvements   in    dropout   rates,   learning
achievement scores and enrollments; and
(v)    duly take into account the comments offered by
the Association during such review, in the course
of further implementation of the Project.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Cat.-gories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $12,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Acco-"nt such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿-24 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(i)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible


﻿- 25 -
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any. time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be c-redited to the Credit
Account, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


