Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20659-TH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
SECOND ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan No. 44470-TH
July 26, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Baht (B) (as of June 30, 2000)
US$1.00 = B 38.2
B 1.00 = US$ 0.0262
ABBREVIATIONS
AMC    -      Asset Management Corporation
BIBF   -      Bangkok International Banking Facilities
BAAC  -       Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
BOT   -       Bank of Thailand
BRO   -       Business Restructuring Office
CCC   -       Civil and Commercial Code
CCP   -       Civil and Commercial Procedures
CDRAC         Corporate Debt Restructuring Advisory Committee
CGD   -       Comptroller General's Department
DIA    -      Deposit Insurance Agency
EGAT  -       Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EGCO  -       Electricity Generating Company
EXIM   -      Thai Export-Import Bank
FC     -      Finance Company
FIDF   -      Financial Institutions Development Fund
FMRP  -       Financial Market Reform Program
FRA   -       Financial Sector Restructuring Authority
FSIA   -      Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
GSB   -       Government Savings Bank
ICAAT -       Institute of Certified Accountants and Auditors
IFCT   -      Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
IIAT   -      Institute of Internal Auditors of Thailand
JTI     -    Judicial Training Institute
KTB     -    Krung Thai Bank
KTT     -    Krungthai Thanakit Public Co., Ltd.
MOC    -    Ministry of Commerce
MOF    -    Ministry of Finance
NESDB -       National Economic and Social Development Board
NPL     -    Non-performing Loan
PLMO   -      Property Loan Management Organization
SEC     -    Securities and Exchange Commission
SEPC    -    State Enterprise Policy Commission
SES     -    Socio-Economic Survey
SET    -      Stock Exchange of Thailand
SFI     -    Specialized Financial Institution
SIP     -    Social Investment Project
SIFC    -    Small Industry Finance Corporation
SSO     -    Social Security Office
TBA     -    Thai Bankers Association
FISCAL YEAR - October I - September 30
Vice President:         Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:       Jayasankar Shivakumar, EACTF
Sector Manager:         Homi Kharas, EASPR
Task Manager:           Ejaz Ghani, EACTF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
SECOND ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 44470-TH)
CONTENTS
Preface
1.   Project Data .......................................1
2.   Principal Performance Ratings ......................................2
3.   Assessment of Development Objectives and Design,
and of Quality at Entry .......................................2
4.   Achievement of Objectives and Outputs .......................3...............3
5.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ...........................9
6.   Sustainability ......................................         10
7.   Bank and Borrower Performance ............. ......................... 11
8.   Lessons Learned ...................................... 13
9.   Partners Comments ......................................      15
10.  Additional Information ......................................  17
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators .18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing .18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs .20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components 21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance .21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .21
Annex 8  Government and Non-Government Stakeholder
Feedback on EFAL II   ..22
Annex 8A Survey Results    ..22
Annex 8B List of Participants in the EFAL II/III Workshop. .       26
Annex 8C. Feedback from Supplementary Bilateral Meetings with
Non-Government Stakeholders    ..29
Annex 9. Summary of Progress in Social Sector Projects .33
Annex 10. EFAL II Supervision: The Policy Matrix   .  .35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
SECOND ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 44470-TH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Economic and
Financial Adjustment Loan (EFAL II) to the Kingdom of Thailand. This Loan (No. 44470-TH),
in the amount of US$600 million equivalent, was approved by the Board on 25 March 1999,
signed on 26 March 1999, and made effective on 30 March 1999. The single tranche, released
upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed on 30 March 1999. The loan was closed on 31 October
1999.
The ICR was prepared by Richard Carroll (Consultant) and reviewed by Mr. Ejaz Ghani
(Country Economist, EACTF), Mr. Ijaz Nabi (Lead Economist, EASPR), and Mr. Homi Kharas
(Sector Director, EASPR).
Preparation of this ICR was started in March 2000. It is based on material in the project
files in Washington and in the Country Office. The ICR also includes comments from the
Borrower. There was no separate mission for the ICR, but field-based staff provided extensive
comments and inputs. The Borrower commented on the ICR but did not prepare a separate
evaluation.






THAILAND: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
Project ID: P058536                                  Project Name: Economic and
Financial Adjustment Loan II
Team Leader: Ejaz Ghani                              TL Unit:
ICR Type: Intensive Learning ICR                     Report Date:5122100
1. Project Data
Name:                 Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan II L/C         44470
Number:
Country/Department:   Thailand                                 Region:      East Asia and
Pacific
Sector/subsector:     PREM
KEY DATES
Original         Revised/Actual
PCD:           October 6, 1998        Effective:       March 30, 1999
Appraisal:     November 1998          MTR:             NA
Approval:      March 25, 1999         Closing:         October 31, 1999
Borrower/Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Finance and Bank of Thailand
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                              At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal ud-din Kassum                  Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager:     Jaysankar Shivakumar                 Jaysankar Shivakumar
Sector Manager:      Homi Kharas                          R.Kyle Peters (Acting)
Team Leader:         Ejaz Ghani                           Ijaz Nabi
ICR Primary Author.   Richard J. Carroll                  NA



2
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible)
Outcome:                               S
Sustainability.                        L
Institutional Development Impact.      S
Bank Performance:                      S
Borrower Performance:                  S
QAG (if available)   ICR
Quality at Entry.               NA                    S
Project at Risk at Any Time:    M
3. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1   Original Objective
EFAL II was the third in a succession of four to five planned single tranche loans. The
objective of the U.S. 600 million loan was to continue to support reform in the financial and
corporate sectors, but focus more on strengthening the competitive foundations of the
economy, while also supporting the Government of Thailand's (GOT) proposed fiscal
stimulus, especially programs that shore up social protection. The original objective proved
appropriate as evidenced by the Thai economy's continued improvement. The goal of social
protection for the poor, the elderly and the unemployed was relevant and the GOT has
continued its efforts to make social policy more coherent. (Note: This ICR concentrates on
the implementation period of EFALII, roughly from October 1998 through the first quarter of
2000).
3.2   Revised Objective
No Revisions.
3.3   Original Components
I. Macroeconomic and Fiscal
II. Financial Sector Restructuring
A. Managing Problem Institutions
B. Strengthening the Financial Sector Structure
C. Enhancing the Regulatory and Supervisory Regime
III. Corporate Restructuring
A. Strengthening the Legal Framework
B. Strengthening the Enabling Environment
C. Speeding the Restructuring Process



3
IV.   Competitiveness
A. Financial Accountability and Corporate Governance
B. Privatization
C. Competition Policy and Investment Incentives
V.   Poverty and Social Protection
A. Improve Strategic Design and Coordination of Social Policy
B. Protecting the Poor
C. Social Protection for Workers
D. Protecting the Elderly
E. Improve the Information Base for Monitoring
3.4   Revised Components
No revisions
3.5   Quality at Entry
Based on its consistency with the country assistance strategy and the fulfillment of Board
conditions, the rating of EFAL II at entry is satisfactory. No assessment was made by the
Quality Assurance Group.
4.    Achievement of Objectives
4.1   Outcome/Achievement of Objective
Thailand has achieved a great deal since the advent of the crisis, both in terms of averting a
second wave of crisis as well as in fundamental, long-term reforms. All objectives were
achieved as measured by fulfillment of Board conditions. The accomplishments are strong in
light of the fact that recovery has begun, a trend that can reduce the commitment for reform,
which supports a satisfactory rating for the overall loan.
4.2   Outputs by components
The major accomplishments, impacts and ratings are summarized below. The responsible
agency is also noted in parentheses.
Macroeconomic and Fiscal (NESDB)
As with previous operations, the IMF took the lead on the macroeconomic framework, with
the Bank providing key inputs. GOT concentrated on expenditures with low import content
and on social programs. Specific actions achieved under EFAL II included identifying
specific projects totaling 1 percent of GDP, of which 40 percent of expenditures were
allocated to workfare and means-tested transfers. The fiscal deficit was increased from 1.8
percent in FY97 to a projected 5.0 percent in FY2000, while expenditure on social safety nets
increased from 1 percent of GDP to 2.2 percent over the same period.



4
The overall effects of the program were very positive as the economy rebounded more
quickly than expected. GDP growth rebounded from a 10 percent decline in 1998 to 4.2
percent growth in 1999, and the unemployment rate has fallen. Inflationi was virtually nil at
0.3 percent in 1999. EFAL II also triggered large additional funding (by Japan), that
constituted a stronger fiscal stimulus. The rating for this component is therefore considered
highly satisfactory.
Financial Sector Restructuring (MOF, BOT, FRA, AMC, FIDF, KTB)
EFAL II supported the ongoing reform program begun in the previous operations, Finance
Companies Restructuring Loan (FCRL) and the Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan I
(EFAL I). The overall rating of this component is satisfactory.
Managing Problem Institutions (FRA, AMC, FIDF, KTB). The Financial Sector
Restructuring Authority (FRA), which is limited to disposing of assets of 56 closed finance
companies (FC), completed seven rounds of core-asset auctions by end 1999. It had sold
Btl 86 billion in FC assets by the end of 1999, which is 28 percent of outstanding balance of
BT 664.8 billion. FRA has adjudicated or is adjudicating an increasing number of creditors'
claims which consisted of 2,900 creditors and claims of Bt920 billion for all the 56 FC assets
as of June 1, 1999. The impacts of the FRA's handling of problem institutions are that (a) a
major share of the assets have been returned to the private sector; (b) after a lapse in
servicing of over a year and a half, the assets are being professionally serviced by
incentivized, private parties; (c) benchmark prices were set in the market place for most
distressed assets; and (d) professional asset management companies and capacity was built
by both local and foreign firms, which has now started to be utilized by the banking sector.
Thailand opted for a non-government directed recapitalization approach for private banks. As
of end 1999, Private banks have raised approximately $9 billion from the private markets.
The public support program, which was designed as a capital source of last resort for private
banks, has been utilized by one bank and two finance companies. Only $1.6 billion has been
utilized out of a total $8 billion set aside by the Government for this purpose. Private banks
have resisted the prospect of Government control which they perceive as connected with the
current public support scheme. Three private banks have announced plans to raise capital in
the near future, and the Government is reviewing options for a revised public support scheme
given that the existing scheme terminates at EOY 2000.
One blemish is that little progress was achieved on Krung Thai Bank (KTB) restructuring.
The president of KTB and the entire board of directors were replaced. In mid April 2000, the
Cabinet approved a plan to establish an FIDF-owned asset management corporation for KTB,
to which the majority of non-perforning loans would be transferred. Once that is finalized,
the new leadership of KTB will proceed with a new operational restructuring plan. The GOT
debt-equity transformation of Bt206 is probably insufficient to cover losses and fund an asset
management company for KTB.
Strengthening the Financial Sector Structure. The Financial Services Task Force (FSTF)
has submitted to the Ministry of Finance preliminary recommendations for a medium term
strategy of the banking/money market. Preliminary recommendations for the capital market



5
will follow by mid-year.  The Bond Market Working Group, formed by the Ministry of
Finance with assistance from the Bank, established task forces in eight areas to develop the
government bond market. Work is proceeding on schedule. For specialized financial
institutions (SFIs), a time-bound action plan for rationalization of all SFIs has been prepared.
Enhancing the Regulatory and Supervisory Regime. Key legislation to enhance the
financial regulatory and supervisory regime was drafted. These included the (a) banking and
finance company laws (the Financial Institutions Law-FIL); (b) the Central Bank Act-CBA;
and (c) deposit insurance law. The FIL and the CBL were approved by the Cabinet in the
first quarter of 2000. The FIL will be particularly significant because it provides the
framework for supervision and ensures that it will be consistent with international standards.
Though a Deposit Insurance legislation has been drafted, the GOT has held further action in
abeyance pending an improvement in public confidence that would allow limits to depositor
protection. MOF constituted a task force of all the key regulators in Thailand for the
supervision of financial conglomerates, and its recommendations on a comprehensive
supervision framework are anticipated at the end of year 2000.
Corporate Restructuring (MOJ, BOT, MOF, CDRAC, FIDF)
Although in some cases, the Government did not go as far as hoped by the Bank, as in
amendments to the bankruptcy and foreclosure laws, much groundwork was laid for long-
term benefits. As such, this component is rated satisfactory in terms of design, but not fully
satisfactory in terms of the outcomes (in terms of deals flows).
Strengthening the Legal Framework (MOJ). The key measure was the amendment of the
bankruptcy law. It provided a venue to force dissenting minority shareholders to accept a
reorganization plan. Still, the legislation was faulted for having requirements that were too
high (by international standards) for debtor consent to a workout, thus leaving a bias in favor
of the debtor. GOT also adopted an action plan to equip MOJ to expedite processing of
bankruptcy cases. Another critical area was strengthening the legal framework for secured
lending. Work in this area continues, but has been very slow. Measures included
amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure (approved by the lower house of Parliament) and
additional legislation drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers including the establishment of a
modernized automated registry system.
Strengthening the Enabling Environment (BOT, MOF). The cabinet approved the
establishment of a credit bureau open to all financial institutions and trade creditors. Draft
legislation has been approved by the Cabinet, and is being considered by Parliament. Still,
the GOT has set up a Credit Bureau, which is operating on a limited voluntary basis. Credit
bureaus will be essential to financial institutions in evaluating the credit worthiness of
borrowers.  The BOT also issued a regulation permitting private asset management
companies to help banks and companies deal with distressed assets.
Speeding the Restructuring Process (CDRAC, BOT, FIDF). Under EFAL II, the GOT
formalized and strengthened the process for corporate restructuring. The Bank of Thailand
(BOT) and the Corporate Debt Restructuring Advisory Committee (CDRAC) developed and



6
encouraged the use of time-bound debtor-creditor contracts to achieve some resolution -- i.e.,
voluntary restructuring, foreclosure, or court-supervised insolvency of corporate distress
cases within 6-8 months. Just 75 percent creditor agreement is needed for such corporate
workouts. In addition, the BOT and CDRAC encouraged financial institution creditors to
implement a system for arbitrating inter-creditor disputes. The BOT assigned 60 staffs to a
CDRAC Office to track more than 700 high-priority cases more closely and to facilitate
progress.  One additional highly important measure to speed up restructuring is the
exemption of state-owned banks from criminal liability for damages relating to lending to
corporations. GOT has made progress, but the issue is not fully resolved. The exemption is
potentially very important because loans from state-owned banks represent over half of the
value of problem loans.
Competitiveness
The competitiveness component comprised both corporate governance and competition
policies. In light of the attainment of objectives, the rating for this component is satisfactory.
Financial Accountability and Corporate Governance (ICAAT, Ministry of Commerce,
SET, SEC). One of the main objectives of reform has been to improve the quality of
financial reporting and disclosure by reducing the government's role in regulating and
developing accounting and auditing standards and by strengthening the professional bodies.
This is being achieved through legislative changes aimed at strengthening the Institute of
Certified Accountants and Auditors of Thailand (ICAAT) and at establishing an independent
Thailand Financial Accounting Standard Board (TFASB). The draft legislation has been
approved by the Cabinet and is under deliberation at the Council of States. The legislative
process has been very slow, but many accounting standards consistent with best practices
have been put in place and almost all LDP actions have been carried out. The regulatory
framework for enforcement of laws and regulations for public companies was improved
through the implementation of operational guidelines for delineating duties among MOC,
SEC and SET. Preliminary work to amend the Public Companies Act to increase the
thresholds for actions by minority shareholders, increase accountability and liabilities of
directors, and improve sanctions in case of violation of laws has been completed. The Bank
has also supported the establishment of the Institute of Directors (October 1999) to provide
training to members of boards of directors of listed companies. The Stock Exchange of
Thailand has improved the requirements for audit committees and has announced a code of
best practices for listed companies directors and audit committees (March 2000).
Privatization (MOF, SEPC). Prior to EFAL II a master plan was drafted for privatization
in water, telecommunications, transport, and energy. Under EFAL II, further progress has
been achieved in streamlining the institutional framework for privatization including the
merger of the State Enterprise Policy Commission with the Corporatization Committee. The
Corporatization Law (drafted in December 1999) would provide a procedure for privatizing
state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The important issue of regulatory training has not
progressed. The Bank is following up both activities as part of the ongoing dialog. Overall,
progress has been satisfactory for creating the enabling environment for privatization, but not
much was achieved in terms of actual privatization.



7
Competition Policy and Investment Incentives. GOT is in the process of establishing the
Trade Competition Commission (TCC) that will issue regulations and guidelines under the
Business Competition Act. TCC establishment is slated for June 2000. A workshop to train
regulators on issues relating to the act is planned. In another area, recognizing the need for
foreign capital for asset purchases was strong and the Government increased the amount of
foreign participation allowed in 33 economic sectors. In general, work on competition policy
is in its early stages and much has to be done before a significant impact will be realized.
Poverty and Social Protection
This social component was the first in the three adjustment operations of the Bank in
Thailand. A broad array of specific social programs were funded directly by the U.S.$1.45
billion Stimulus Package funded by the OECF, the JEXIMand the Bank (see Box 1) and
implemented concurrently with EFAL II. The crisis had focussed GOT's attention on
poverty, specifically on a coherent framework for social safety nets. The GOT followed
through on budget allocations to social programs. The IMF/Bank stance on the fiscal deficit
supported higher spending, which accommodated social spending. However the GOT
achieved the greater spending mainly by accelerating projects that were already in the
pipeline. In implementing the social programs, there was a clear tension and trade-off
between fine targeting (which is administratively expensive and time consuming) and broad-
based job creation (the fiscal stimulus objective). In light of the progress in improving
information collection and in strengthening social safety nets, this component is rated
satisfactory. Table 1 summarizes the spending level on social programs. For a summary of
progress on related social programs, see Annex 9.
The poverty impact of the crisis has not been fully assessed, although the 1998 household
survey (which covered until late 1997), suggested it was less than expected. Poverty is
expected to decline from a total of 8.2 million poor at the 1998 peak of the crisis to 7 million
by 2002. The Household Survey for 2000 will provide a more meaningful assessment of the
crisis' poverty impact. Because poverty was under-targeted prior to the crisis, the need for
upgraded safety nets remains. The labor force survey was an important element because it
improved statistics, policy formulation and poverty measurement. Data showed poverty to
be worse in north eastern rural areas. A relatively large share of the stimulus package did go
to that area. This area suffered the double hit of not only losing the remittances from urban
areas, but also having to reabsorb those people who had lost their urban jobs.
Improve Strategic Design and Coordination of Social Policy. The GOT appointed the
National Social Policy Committee (NSPC) to develop a coherent social policy framework
with the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) serving as secretariat.
The NSPC has devised strategies for social protection, and is in the process of preparing an
action plan. EFAL II supported changes in the social security system with lowered
contribution rates from employees and employers (to ease the burden during crisis), but was
compensated for with a one percent government contribution. A high level task force was
constituted to develop a collaborative policy on social security, pensions and provident funds.



8
The MOF is reviewing recommendations of the report on pension funds before submission
for Cabinet approval.
Box 1: THE STIMULUS PACKAGE
The Miyazawa package aimed at quickly disbursing external funds to stimulate the economy through
job creation and productive investments, while protecting the poor from the crisis and building a
foundation for future competitiveness. To implement these objectives an inter-agency committee,
comprising the Ministry of Finance, the Bureau of the Budget, and the National Economic and Social
Development Board, compiled a list of expenditure programs which included "top-down" projects
developed by the central agencies and "bottom-up" programs developed by the line ministries. Six
expenditure categories were identified: I) investment in job creation (Bt 24.8 billion); 2)
improvement in the quality of life through public health, water resource, and pollution management
(Bt 9.6 billion); 3) improvement in the foundation for economic development by minimizing the
impact of the crisis on education, improving productivity and stabilizing commodity prices (Bt 7.2
billion); 4) improvement in competitiveness of manufacturing and export industries (Bt 2.3 billion);
5) improvement in infrastructure in border areas and remote rural areas to promote economic activity
(Bt 0.9 billion); and 6) enhancement of the effectiveness of public administration by increasing court
and judicial resources and supporting the establishment of institutions required by the new
Constitution (Baht 8.8 billion). The projects within this package were evaluated on the basis of four
criteria: 1) resource allocation; 2) process; 3) production, outcome, and impact; and 4) development,
learning, innovation. The majority of projects (81.5 percent) have been rated as satisfactory, 17.4
percent were highly satisfactory, while only 1.1 percent were unsatisfactory.
TABLE 1: STIMULUS PACKAGE AND SAFETY NET PROGRAMS
(% of GDP)
1998/1999    1999/2000
Social safety net expenditure     2.1           2.2
O/w: Employment generation       0.5           0.2
Social security and welfare      0.8           0.9
Housing and community services   0.8           0.8
Social Investnent Programn       0.1           0.2
Protecting the Poor.  As mentioned, protection of the poor received a boost from the
loosened fiscal stance. Measures under EFAL II included revising workfare programs to
include at least 30 percent unskilled workers, geographic distribution of the workfare budget
to reflect the incidence of poverty, improved monitoring of workfare programs, a general
increase in coverage for cash transfers for needy families and poor elderly (Bt200 to Bt300),
and for in-kind transfer programs.
Social Protection for Workers. GOT also committed to protection for workers through a
savings based system for workers not covered under the social security system and a fund to
partially finance unpaid severance claims. The savings based system is multi-purpose and
not geared toward old-age coverage, but rather for any large expenditures, such as for
education. The savings system has no tax advantage or other support from government. The
GOT did establish an employee welfare fund to partially finance unpaid severance claims.
Training and employment services were also designed and targeted. Voluntary provident
funds for private employees were also strengthened.



9
Protecting the Elderly. There was some progress in this subcomponent, but mainly only in
the cleaning up of the social security database. The other action was to develop a strong
supervision and regulatory structure for voluntary provident funds and improve their
portability across firms.
Improve the Information Base for Monitoring. A prerequisite for establishing appropriate
social programs is a comprehensive and reliable informnation database. The poverty database
was improved by implementing the socio-economic survey (SES) which provided a poverty
map, and complemented by a regularly updated LFS whose frequency was increased to four
rounds per year.
4.3   Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return
Not Applicable
4.4   Financial Rate of Return
Not Applicable
4.5  Institutional Development Impact
EFAL II reforms were concerned primarily with institutional and legal development and are
summarized in section 4.2. Additional institutional development was supported by the
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project (FSIAP). Disbursement of this loan was
accelerated in order to support competitiveness, financial sector and public sector reforms.
The EMAL and several trust funds were also important in supporting EFAL II
implementation.
5.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1   Factors outside government or implementing agency control
There were no major factors outside the control of government other than the fact that
economic conditions prevailing at the time of EFAL II were part of a general regional
economic and financial crisis that had been easing for some months.
5.2   Factors generally subject to government control
The government was assertive in a number of areas that affected the reform program. One
important area was the Bankruptcy Law. Foreclosure laws were strengthened, but more
needs to be followed up. Debtors are still difficult to force to the table, which tended to slow
progress in corporate workouts. Creditors were also reluctant at times to participate because
a write down would have meant additional resources need to recapitalize the banks. In the
social sector, GOT was also reluctant to go too fast on expanding social programs for fear of
creating too high future liabilities.



10
A more general factor was the pace of the legislative process in Thailand. Thailand's
bicameral parliament was very deliberate in passing legislation. Another general factor was
that with Thailand out of the state of crisis, EFAL II BOP support was not as urgent like that
of its two predecessors, which meant that negotiating reform conditions was much tougher.
There was a gap in the lending program during November 1999-after EFAL II close-and
the effectiveness of the planned EFAL III.
5.3   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
The FRA faced difficult political challenges even though it has been quite successful. It was
criticized for selling too much to foreigners, selling too cheaply, 25 percent of book value at
the more recent auctions. This criticism was probably exaggerated because book value is
probably well above market value. In addition, some of the assets could not be worked for 1-
1.5 years and, while they were in limbo awaiting their disposition, there was no activity, the
borrower makes no payments etc. Naturally, these assets would further decline in value.
FRA was the main user of the Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Loan (about 50
percent of the 15$ million was disbursed to FRA). However, borrowing for TA lost priority
as grant funds were made available by Partners, under the initiative of the Bank, and were
preferred by the Government. Individual agencies developed plans for the loans, but the
Ministry of Finance could have followed through more quickly. One example is the GH
Bank, which developed a $2 million plan to upgrade its credit risk management system. The
MOF has indicated that it will approve GHB's request on a cost-sharing basis. While
disbursements have slowed from the TA loan, this instrument continues to provide an entry
and funding platform for assistance in case grant funding cannot be identified for a particular
priority of the GOT.
5.4   Costs and financing
The total loan amount was $600 million that was disbursed in a single tranche on March 30,
1999. It was a single currency loan (SCL) in U.S. dollars, with a 15 year maturity, including
a 3-year grace period at the Bank's standard fixed U.S. Dollar SCL interest rate.
6.    Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the reform program supported by EFAL II and previous operations is
considered likely. The EFAL II program has improved the economy's capacity to manage
future shocks and rely less on emergency interventions. Specifically, the EFAL II operation
has helped develop a more prudent approach to risk-taking, has facilitated a more effective
market response through strengthened laws and institutional arrangements, and improved
early warning and problem detection capabilities. Despite the gap in program lending,
sustainability is bolstered by continuation of TA supported reform activities and a vigorous
dialogue of continued reform. The planned follow-on operation (referred to as EFAL III),
although delayed, appears likely in some form. An important development to support



I1
sustainability is the strong advance in borrower ownership of the program to the extent that
GOT is the principal author of continued reforms.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The urgency for BOP assistance has subsided, and, although lending operations may be
reduced, on most fronts, the GOT is continuing the reform process by implementing the
reform program that lays the basis for EFAL III. The main impetus in this continued
implementation appears to be the recognition of the need to improve competitiveness and
reduce the likelihood of another crisis. One area where sustainability might be threatened is
in the area of social safety nets. In EFAL II, GOT agreed to a number of social safety net
activities, and the GOT is further deepening the focus on social programs under the gt 5-year
plan. .
7.    Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1   Lending
By the preparation of EFAL II, the importance of Bank's role of providing BOP support had
already peaked. Although it was the third operation in a series, EFAL II was still designed as
a fast disbursing loan to deliver a quick fiscal stimulus, which meant that the action plan had
to be designed to facilitate compliance rather than to achieve large number of bold actions in
the tight timetable prior to Board approval. The somewhat mild actions for secured lending
were an example. The bill was not submitted to cabinet for approval.
In the design of the program, in some cases preparation could have been better. For example,
while the Bank had been encouraging the GOT to develop a medium term strategy for the
financial sector, the work of that task force developed more slowly than anticipated. The
Bank's support for enhancements to the debt collection regime was delayed. Another area
that could have been improved was the estimation of fiscal costs of the financial crisis. The
Bank could have made a stronger effort in this important dimension of the crisis. Otherwise,
the delivery of a comprehensive program of technical assistance was handled very capably.
Legal reforms were also supported by other instruments including a PHRD grant.
7.2   Supervision
The Bank managed a broad program in which some components naturally advanced faster
than others. For example, legal reform is generally a slow process. The Bank approached
local lawyers at big firms to find solutions, in particular, how to tilt the legal framework more
towards creditors than debtors. Although the legislative process was slow, the feedback and
products from local lawyers under EFAL II were relevant and will be useful over the long-
term, but cannot be implemented within the timeframe of a single tranche operation. There
was no issue of consistency with Thai law and the framework was detailed and relevant.



12
It was difficult to build a detailed program for social safety nets because data were simply not
yet available to support it. However, data issues were dealt with under EFAL II and data
continue to be more comprehensive, up to date and meaningful. A well-staffed resident
mission was able to carry out intensive, supervision which helped sustain the EFAL II
program and make progress on commitments in the Letter of Development Policy as well as
prepare with the GOT the continuation of the program in form of the planned EFAL III
operation.
7.3 Overall Bank Performance
The Bank's expectations were too high in some instances, such as establishing the tegal
framework and basing progress in corporate restructuring thereon. Relations with IMF
improved markedly over earlier operations starting with EFAL I and continuing through
EFAL II, as the nature of the crisis and its prescriptions became clearer. Because of the
relevance of the overall program and the continued progress in sustainable reforms, the
Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4   Preparation
The new element to the program for the GOT was the social safety nets. The depth of the
crisis had forced the Thai authorities to consider social safety nets. Still, there were concerns
that social programs could be fiscally onerous and compromise family-based traditional
welfare. There were a couple of instances of weakness, for example estimating a total cost
for bank restructuring. Quick calculations had to suffice.
7.5   Government implementation performance
Within the context of a rather slow legislative process, the overall Government
implementation performance was satisfactory with most of the commitments in the LDP
carried out. A few areas could be improved (e.g. the bankruptcy and foreclosure laws). On
the social side, with indications that poverty was less than expected, GOT was not keen on
implementing new programs that would be difficult to dismantle later. The Government, in
order to increase spending, accelerated projects, which were already in the pipeline. Given
the favorable level of public debt which Thailand had the time (about 20 percent of GDP
before the crisis), GOT adopted a rather conservative fiscal stance. Public debt has since
increased substantially, thus calling for a more fiscally conservative approach.
7.6   Implementing agency
Implementing agencies in general performed satisfactorily, and in some cases had very high
caliber personnel as were the lawyers at MOJ. However, there were some weaknesses. A
number of implementing agencies lacked the capacity to implement complex reforms.



13
7.7   Overall Borrower performance
Because the reform agenda advanced on all fronts during EFAL II and beyond, the overall
GOT performance was satisfactory.
8.    Lessons Learned
The following are lessons learned derived from interviews with Bank staff, government
counterparts and other stakeholders. Additional lessons learned may be found in Annexes 8
and 9.
It has become clear in countries in financial crisis that a high priority is to pursue
legislation that enhances loan collectability. Measures need to be carried out as soon as
possible to institute laws to (a) enforce security interests; (b) promote corporate governance
through greater transparency through eliminating insider transactions, strengthening the
accounting function and shareholders' rights; and (c) improve supervision by building
capacity and eliminating exceptions to supervision rules. One other important element is the
type of exit procedure has to be laid out in a clear way. Such a procedure may need to be
tailored to the specific country environment.  There is concern that over aggressive
foreclosures could deepen a crisis. However, a framework to enhance loan collectability
takes a long time to establish, and where one is lacking, must be pursued very early on.
Reform programs should not over tax implementation capacity. While it is important to
pursue a reform agenda as intensively as possible at the peak of a crisis, the reform program
has to be within the implementation capacity of the government.
There is sometimes a trade off between urgency and program ambitiousness vs. client
ownership. The Bank supported a broad program, which had a large degree of client
ownership, but which did not extend entirely to social safety nets.
Restructuring is an iterative process. The data and knowledge for one-time restructuring
does not exist even in more advanced economies with better-regulated financial systems.
Because restructuring is iterative, expectations about what can be achieved in one shot should
be realistic and there has to be continuous monitoring and repeated intervention for
restructuring to be successful. This approach is particularly challenging with single tranche
operations.
Achieving legal reform within the framework of emergency lending operations requires
two elements. The two elements are sets of conditions designed (a) to deal with the
immediate problems through emergency decrees and (b) to concretely reform the legal
framework (with the necessary implementing regulations) and implementation capacity so
that the future need for emergency decrees is reduced.
Broader participation in drafting reforms might slow implementation in the short-run,
but pays off in the long-run. The Bank was eager to achieve legal reforms and needed to
involve a broad representation of the Thai legal community. The Bank experienced



14
fristration over the process of amending the bankruptcy and foreclosure laws.  A
fundamental process of broad involvement could have been initiated earlier, although it
would not have met the urgent timing needs of EFAL II disbursement.
Bank participation in legal reform should also be broader. EFAL II preparation tended
to leave the legal framework to lawyers. A purely legalistic view sometimes misses
opportunities for negotiating the program. as may have been the case in the slow progress in
foreclosure laws.
Technical Assistance, especially grant-funded assistance, is an extremely useful catalyst
to implement reform  program  components.  One of the great tools of successful
implementation of the reform program was the availability of trust funds, administered by the
Barnk from the Japanese Government and the European Commission for targeted technical
assistance. (over four million dollars). While this is a small amount compared to the total
EFAI, II loan amount (U.S.$600 million), the assistance went directly to the implementing
agencies and strongly stimulated implementation because it was under their direct control. In
addition, the Bank coordinates technical assistance to the Thai authorities in the financial and
corporate sectors by all partners in Thailand, including bilateral partners.  This close
coordination and rational allocation of work reduces the burden on the client and more
efficiently utilizes the scarce resources available. This package of grant funding, partner
coordination and loan funded technical assistance provided resources for the effective
implementation of the GOT's reform program.
Gaps in the reform program, such as between EFAL II and the planned EFAL III can
have costs. EFAL II closed on October 31, 1999, and was not followed in a continuum by
EFAL III. Without the follow-up operation, it is difficult for reform proponents to negotiate
x^'ith elements in the Parliament less supportive of reform. For example, it is more difficult
for the Minister of Finance to secure dated commitments to specific reforms.
A single tranche operation may rely too much on LDP commitments. A firmer program
might be achieved by launching a double rather than a single tranche operation. The EFAL
program did reduce some of this reliance because it was a succession of single tranche
operations that built the reform program.
Although poverty estimates were lower than expected, targeting remained important
feature of the fiscal stimulus. The Bank maintained that pre-crisis coverage for the poor
was far too low and that targeting still had an important role. Regional differences argued
strongly for targeting as workers who lost their jobs in the cities not only could not send
remittances back home, but also had, themselves, to be supported when they returned to their
villages. Moreover, data on the poor and very poor were too weak to rnake an accurate
assessment.
In an institution with limited capacity for poverty targeting, the simplest program, that
is decentralized, may be the best. Untargeted, but decentralized programs that require
community participation may be more effective in addressing poverty that more sophisticated
targeting, implementation intensive efforts.



15
9.    Partners Comments:
The Kingdom of Thailand
Government's Evaluation Report on
Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan (EFAL II)
Loan No. 4447TH
EFAL II was part of the two-year program of structural adjustment of the economy supported
by four single-tranche balance of payment loans. The objectives of EFAL II were to support
the Government's program to restore growth by: (1) deepening structural reform in the
financial sector; and supporting measures to strengthen the corporate sector; 2) initiating a
program to improve the competitive foundations of the economy; and 3) supporting the
Government fiscal stimulus package aimed at spurring demand and minimizing the impacts
of the crisis on the vulnerable.
EFAL II Matrix and Letter of Development Policy were presented to the cabinet on February
23, 1999. The cabinet approved the loan on March 9 in support of the stabilization and
structural reform measures announced in the $17.2 billion Tokyo financing package of
August 1997. The financing package was a coordinated strategy by multi-lateral and
bilateral partners to assist Thailand's efforts at crisis management and recovery
Rationale
Thailand's economy was in deep recession in 1998. Recovery had been hampered in 1998
by unfavorable international conditions that increased pressure on the balance of payments.
By the first quarter of 1999, the stabilization and structural reform efforts of the Government
had began to bear fruit, with a more stable exchange rate and lower interest rates. The
government, however, faced three important challenges: 1) domestic demand remained
anemic, 2) the financial position of banks and the corporate sector remained weak, 3) and
unemployment rates and poverty incidence had increased considerably compared to pre-crisis
levels.
Hence, EFAL II was used to continue support to the resolution of troubled financial
companies and to help strengthening the supervision and regulatory framework for the
remainder. More importantly, the loan supported the increase in public expenditure to
stimulate domestic demand and protect the vulnerable.



16
Measures supported by the loan
Specifically, the measures taken under EFAL II focused on the following outcomes:
1. Macroeconomic Policy
*   Maintain expansive fiscal and monetary stances to support recovery
2. Financial Sector Restructuring
*   Managing Problem Institutions
*   Strengthening the Financial Sector Structure
*   Enhancing the Regulatory and Supervisory Regime
3. Corporate Restructuring
*   Strengthening the Legal Framnework
*   Strengthening the Enabling Environment
*   Speeding the Restructuring Process
4. Competitiveness
:  Financial Accountability and Corporate Governance
*   Privatization
*   Competition Policy and Investment Incentives
5. Poverty and Social Protection
-   Improve Strategic Design and Coordination of Social Policy
*   Protecting the vulnerable
*   Social Protection for Workers
-   Improve the Information Base for Monitoring
Comments
Structure of the Loan
As in the case of EFAL I, EFAL II was a single tranche loan. In light of the need for balance
of payments support and rapid disbursement of resources to stimulate the economy, this was
appropriate.   This flexible programmatic  approach  allowed  for a focus on  economic
management issues as the crisis unfolded. However, breaking up loan conditions into Board
and Letter of Development Policy components (that were taken up as Board conditions in the
next loan) required laborious preparations and negotiations at a time when Governnent
resources were stretched to the limit. But, at the same time it helped maintain a sharp focus
on the content and timing of the action that needed to be taken.
Policy Focus and Selectivity
Given the severity of the crisis, the reform program introduced by the Government was
highly complex.  One of the implications is that the Policy Matrix of EFAL II covered a
broad range of issues and institutions. This tended to distract from clarity and put a heavy
burden on the Fiscal Policy Office to coordinate and manage across many government
agencies and line ministries.



17
General evaluation
The authorities consider that EFAL II was a successful intervention. The stimulus package
achieved its goal of reviving economic growth. While the implementation of social safety
net programs was not without difficulties (e.g., problems in targeting and allocation of
resources), they certainly contributed to mitigate the impacts of the crisis on low income
population groups. Progress in the areas of financial and corporate sector restructuring has
been satisfactory. EFAL II continued the high standard of cooperation initiated with the
World Bank under the Finance Companies Restructuring Loan in September 1997. The loan
has set the stage to move from crisis management to medium term structural reforms that will
increase Thailand's ability to compete in domestic and foreign markets thus raising social
welfare.
Policy/Political Sensitivity
More care should be exercised in taking into account political sensitivity. Original drafted
matrix, despite strong objection by officials concerned contained enactment of several bills
by the Parliament, including the new Bankruptcy Law. It is important to promote social and
political consensus even if this may slow down the reform process. Reforms usually require
changes to complex pieces of legislation or the development of new legal frameworks.
These institutional changes are usually zero sum games and therefore ca face the opposition
of sometime powerful stake holders. While loan funds attached to reforms are an incentive,
they are usually small compared to the economic relocations caused by the reform itself. It is
essential therefore to promote social and political consensus. For instance, when drafting the
bankruptcy and foreclosure laws, different stake holders needed to be involved. The
resulting legislation is then better balanced and therefore better prepared for political
negotiations.
Reality on the Ground
Another sticking point was the insistence that wage to be paid under the workforce program
should be close to 80 Bahtlday when in fact the minimum wage was 132 Bahtlday. This was
negotiated with difficulty. Bank staff refused to recognize the fact that similar workfare
project funded under Bank supported SIP, the wage was specified as minimum wage.
Role of the Bank
Staff was overanxious to have a role in debt restructuring, pushing the Government to
undertake a loan to assist CDRAC. MOF, however, decided that any borrowing must be
done by CDRAC rather than the Government as the entity is a separate and autonomous
organization. Thankfully, CDRAC did not wish to borrow and the debt restructuring process
has made reasonable progress. It is doubtful that addition debt would help to hasten the debt
restructuring process. But to insist on the TA loan by all means despite the Government's
objection is a good practice on part of the Bank.
10.   Additional Information - None



18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSRI           ActuallLatest Estimate
Refer to the EFAL II Supervision Policy
Matrix-Annex 10
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatnx                 Projected in last PSR1          ActuallLatest Estimate
Refer to the EFAL II Supervision Policy
Matrix-Annex 10
End of project
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal       Actual/Latest   Percentac
Estimate         Estimate         Apprait
Project Cost By Component                     US $million       US $million
Total Baseline Cost                                                600               600              IC
Total Project Costs                     600                600             IC
Total Financing Required                      600                600             IC
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methodl
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB           Other2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works
No Procurement Categories--
All BOP Support
2. Miscellaneous
Total



19
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuaULatest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Procurement Method 1
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB         Other2        N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works
No Procurement Categories--
All BOP Support
2. Miscellaneous
Total
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of
Component             Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate        Appraisal
Bank     Govt.    CoF.      Bank      Govt.    CoF.   Bank  Govt.  CoF.
BOP Assistance           600                         600                         100
Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                                                                     Performance Ratii
No. of Persons and Specialty
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)
Count      Specialty                     Implementation     Development
Month/Year                                                     Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
August-November            16    E-3, F-2, Corp.-2, L-2, S-4,         S                  S
1998                             CG- 1, Comp.-2
Appraisal/Negotiation
S                 S
December 1998-March        11    E-2, F-2, Corp.-2, L-1, S-2,
1999                             CG-1, Comp.-1
Supervision
October 1998-June          11    E-2, F-2, Corp.-2, L-1, S-2,
1999                             CG-1, Comp.-l                        S                 S
ICR
14    E-4, F-3, Corp.-2, L-1, S-2,
CG-1, Comp.-I                       S                  S
F-Economist (macro), F-Financial, Corp.-Corporate restructuring, L-Legal, S-Labor market and social
safety net, CG-Corporate govemance, Comp.-Competition
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks           Amount (US$ 000)
Identification/Preparation                   80.0                       270.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                        38.6                       103.5
Supervision                                 28.0                         94.5
ICR                                           3.5                         6.4
Total                                       150.1                       475.1



21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                                   H
Sector policies                                  Su
Physical                                         SU
Financial                                        SU
Institutional development                        SU
Environmental                                    NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                         M
Gender                                   NA
Other                                    NA
Private sector development                       M
Public sector management                         SU
Other                                           NA
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=l=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Lending                                         S
Supervision                                     S
Overall                                         S
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
Preparation                                     S
Government Implementation Performance           S
Implementation agency performance               S
Overall                                         S
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Memorandum of the President-Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan II, March 25,
1999
Loan Agreement (and annexes)-March 26, 1999
EFAL II Supervision Matrix (Annex 10)
EFAL III Draft Policy Matrix
Thailand Economic Monitor
Thailand Country Dialogue Monitor



22
Annex 8: Government and Non-Government Stakeholder Feedback on EFAL II
8 A: Survey Results
A survey was completed at the EFAL III/EFAL II Workshop which consisted of both numerical,
quantitative (multiple choice) and explanatory responses. The quantitative results are found in the
table below.
Thailand: EFAL II Impact Assessment Survey
Question                                                                              Rating
A.     Component Design
Was the program component design appropriate to the problems faced?
(4) Very appropriate (3) Appropriate (2) Somewhat Appropriate (1) Not appropriate
2.8
Were the objectives of the program and component clear?                                2.8
(4)    Extremely clear (3) Clear (2) Somewhat Unclear (1) Unclear
What was the degree of national input to the program design? (4) Very substantial (3)
Substantial (2) Minor (I) Negligible
Govemment                                                                            3.2
NGOs                                                                                 1.9
Private Sector                                                                       2.3
Were the objectives of the component reasonable to implement given the amount of time? (4)
Very reasonable (3) Reasonable (2) Difficult (1) Unreasonable
2.5
Were there adequate resources to accomplish the objectives? (4) Too much (3) Comfortable
(2) Sufficient (1) Insufficient
Funding                                                                              1.7
Staffing                                                                             1.9
B. Impact
How would you characterize program/component impact? (4) Very strong (3) Strong (2)
Moderate (1) Weak/Insignificant                                                        2.5
Whatwerethecomponent'simpacts? (4) Verystrong (3) Strong (2) Moderate (1)
Weak/Insignificant
Establishing Incentives for Improved Performance in the Sector                       2.4
Institution Building                                                                 2.3
Skills Improvement/Knowledge                                                         2.4
Institutional Reform                                                                 2.4
C. Sustainability of the Program
How sustainable are the initiatives and accomplishments of the component? (4) Highly (3)
Probably (2) Possibly (I) Unsustainable                                                2.6
Please rank the factors in the sustainability of the component's achievements. (1- being most  Score
important and 6- least important)
Rank
1. Overall govemment commitment                                            2.4
2. Quality of staff                                                        2.6
3. Legal issues                                                            2.9
4. Availability of budget                                                  3.1
5. External economic factors                                               4.1
6. Borrower ownership                                                      5.1



23
The survey questions emphasized the borrower's assessment of the quality and performance EFAL II,
lessons learned and suggestions for the future. Respondents were directed to focus on the specific
component with which they had the most knowledge and experience, but were free to comment on the
EFAL II program in general. The questions and averages for the quantitative responses are presented
below followed by a summary of qualitative questions and responses.
The average ratings are consistent with an overall satisfactory rating for EFAL II and, at the same
time, leave room for improvement in project design, preparation and implementation. Project design
was viewed as fairly appropriate and objectives fairly clear, but both could be substantially improved.
Inputs from government in carrying out the program were expectedly high, but more inputs are
needed from NGOs and the private sector in future operations. Staffing, funding and time appeared
to be barely adequate to carry out the program, suggesting that planning for such an ambitious reform
agenda should include a more realistic allocation of resources for implementation. Impact was rated
moderate to strong overall and for each of the areas queried (incentives for improved performance in
the sector, institution building, skill development/knowledge transfer, and institutional reform).
The program was rated as fairly sustainable (between probably and possibly sustainable). The factors
rated most important in sustaining the program were government commitment and quality of staff.
Less important were external factors and borrower ownership. The disparity in importance between
government commitment and borrower ownership is somewhat puzzling and may be derive from
confusion over the term borrower ownership. It is clear from experience that borrower ownership is
important to GOT.
Qualitative Survey Results
The qualitative responses yielded both common threads and innovations which the Bank should
consider. A summary of these views is presented below with the survey question followed by a
summary of responses.
How might the component have been better designed?
Most felt that more time was needed for implementation, particularly for preparing and designing
quality projects for the social component. In addition, greater consultation of stakeholders is needed.
Such consultation would yield better information for project design and encourage greater community
participation in projects to alleviate poverty and generate fiscal stimulus. Joint internal evaluation of
the activities would also help improve information on which new activities are based. It was also felt
that other resources, supplementary staff and supplies for the new activities were needed for more
effective implementation. One respondent (competition/commerce) pointed to the need for better
prepared documents on which to base implementation. On the corporate governance side, a need was
expressed for more specific technical support.
What, if any, were the negative impacts of the component?
Responses were scant on this question, but included the following: (a) beneficiaries came to depend
too much on grants, (b) target groups were not adequately informed that their access to financial
assistance was not their right but was to be driven by neediness, and (c) staff were required to
implement with inadequate information (competition/commerce).



24
What if any unintended positive impacts were there?
Sometimes there are benefits beyond the intent of the project which this question aiimed to discover.
Whether all were unintended or not, is open to debate. Most responses pointed to the fact that formal
monitoring brought on improved quality of implementation, including greater "vigilance" in carrying
out activities.  Other benefits were generally improved job performance and a much closer
coordination and understanding between involved organizations. A related benefit was that groups
from different sectors were brought together and gained a broader awareness of each others'
circumstances. Target groups also learned from the experience with the fiscal stimulus package and
EFAL II and, in the process, communities' capacity to implement was strengthened.
How would you assess the importance of World Bank assistance during implementation
(supervision)?
On the positive side one respondent described the Bank assistance as excellent. Others stated that the
Bank supervision made the program more transparent and effective than it otherwise would have
been, and that it ensured adherence to the policy matrix. On the critical side, respondents felt that
there should have been more consultation with implementing agencies, that the program should also
have involved private organizations, and that conditions and rules of the program were inflexible.
Leading up to EFAL III, one respondent commented that it is important to examine efficient
strategies and mechanisms before launching into discussions of a specific policy matrix for EFAL III.
One recommended bi-weekly implementation progress reports and another suggested that the Bank
pay closer attention to prepared feasibility studies.
What would you have done differently in implementing the component if you were the World
Bank?
Responses to this question echoed some of those of the question about changes in project design
above. One clear theme, emphasized on the social side, was the need for more consensus building
and information sharing, more transparency and greater participation of the stakeholders and more
time to implement the program. Some (competition/commerce) felt that surveys had to be more
thorough and that information on the poor had to be improved. In addition there needed to be more
specific conditions designed to help the poor. Some comments referred to the need for better
organization and coordination, such as establishment of a concrete timetable for all activities, that
task forces had to communicate better their progress and the frustration over the fact that there were
too many people working on too many teams (perhaps on the Bank as well as the Government side)
and their roles and responsibilities were confused. There was a concern that the borrower's policy
matrix not be de-emphasized, but be part of any actions plan and that all parties work with NESDB to
develop a unified policy framework. One respondent felt that program design should have been more
attuned to the socio-cultural environment in Thailand. Finally, the government should focus more on
legal issues in the policy matrix.
What would you have done differently in implementing the program as the Central
Government or implementing agency?
Once again the theme emerged of providing more time and resources for agencies to plan and design
projects and set priorities for the program. Another prominent theme was the need for greater
involvement of stakeholders which would make the program more responsive to actual needs
including resources needed to implement the program. The work plan for the program should
explicitly include NGOs. In addition, the private sector should be much more involved as partners for



25
long-term execution of the program. There was a strong plea for more direct contact with responsible
agencies for each component in the matrix, including greater cooperation between government
agencies and cross-checking for possible redundancy of projects along with a more collaborative
approach. Each agency should have a project monitoring system in place. Lastly, there needs to be a
greater effort to improve public awareness and understanding of the program.
What do you see as the priorities for the National Competitiveness Program/ Economic and
Financial Adjustment Loan III with respect to your component?
Education and general human resource development topped the priority list for continuing with an
EFAL III operation. Responses referred to the need to expand education at every level, secondary
tertiary and beyond, and to encourage lifelong education, skills development especially information
and other high technology skills. The improvements in education will lead to fulfillment of another
priority which is to increase the capacity of small and medium scale enterprises for high technology
production. Another priority is to improve technology transfer and diffusion. Social safety nets and
continued economic stimulus were also high on the list. Other priorities mentioned included (a) more
effort to expand the capital market and not so much emphasis on facilitating the restructuring of
financial institutions, (b) establishment of TFASB, (c) establishing a labor force strategy, and
institution building. Government commitment, adequate budget, public cooperation, and loan and
grant assistance were cited as critical elements in pursuing these priorities.



26
ANNEX 8 B: LIST OF PARTICIPANTS
IN THE EFAL II/EFAL III WORKSHOP
March 29, 2000
Senior Level
Khun Choedchai Khannabha - Senior Experts on Economics, MOF
Khun Noravat Suwarn, Director General - Department of Insurance
Khun Patra Skulthai, Director General - Department of Commercial Registration
Khun Issaraphan Petcharat, Deputy Budget Director, Bureau of Budget
Khun Chanmchai Charuvastr, Secretary General - Thailand Institute of Directors
Dr. Poramethee - NESDB
Working Group Participants:
Financial Sector Reform
Khun Niramon Assavamanee -- BOT
Khun Somboon Chitphentam -- BOT
Khun Prapakorn Wannakanok -- BOT
Khun Wajeetip Visutipol -- BOT
Khun Ketsuda Supradit - FPO
Khun Woratai Kosolpisitkul - FPO
Khun Satjapa Thongprasam -- SET
Khun Punsak Vejanurug -- SEC
Khun Wipada Siricharoen -- SEC
Khun Paisan Chotipaibulpan, Dept. of Insurance
Corporate Restructuring
Dr. Veirachai Techavichit, Honorable Registrar - Thai Chamber of Commerce
Judge Montri Silpmahabandit, Ministry of Justice
Judge Thammanoon Phitayaporn, Ministry of Justice
Khun Varin Phongthirasuwan - BOT
Corporate Governance
Khun Pinthip Rujatikumporn - Law Division, FPO
Khun Patareeya Benjapolchai, Senior Vice President - Stock Exchange of Thailand
Khun Waratchya Srimachand, SEC
Khun Dusit Uchupong-Amom - Dept. of Commercial Registration, MOC
Khun Pongpun Gearraviriyapun - Dept. of Commercial Registration, MOC
Khun Samruay Daengduang - Dept. of Commercial Registration, MOC
Khun Preecha Hantongtus - Dept. of Commercial Registration, MOC
Khun Punsak Vejanurug - SEC
Competition and Trade Policy, SME, E-Commerce, and SOE Reform
Khun Direk Charoenphol - MOF
Khun Terana Settasompop - MOF
Khun Nattapom Leevirapwan- MOF



27
Khun Kiat Sittheeamorn - Board of Trade
Khun Kunakom Makchaidee - Board of Trade
Khun Somphon Wongchanglaw - Board of Trade
Khun Sasithorn Khaotiamsang - Board of Trade
Khun Yupared Donwungderm - BOT
Khun Prasert Kmonwatananisa - Manager, Technical and Planning - FTI
Mr. Trevor Bull, Office of State Enterprise and Government Securities - Comptroller General's
Department
Khun Priyanut Piboolsravut - NESDB
Khun Sasithorn Palalttadej - NESDB
Khun Surach Foongkiat - Dept. of Industrial Promotion, MOI
Khun Supaporn Vilairuangsuwan - Dept. of Industrial Promotion, MOI
Khun Nat Chulkaratana - MOI
Khun Jitnipa Wangcherdchuwong - Dept. of Internal Trade - MOC
Khun Sinthorn Guntawong - MOC
Khun Punthip Chuensiripong - Dept. of Internal Trade - MOC
Khun Somyot Ruchiwongroj - Thai Chamber of Commerce
Khun Chantraporn Pisarn-udon - Thai Chamber of Commerce
Khun Kunakorn Mekjaidee - Thai Chamber of Commerce
Khun Viriya Pholkod - Thai Chamber of Commerce
Khun Tarida Chamroonrut - National Electronics and Computer Technology Center
Khun Thaweesak Koanantakool - NECTEC
Khun Royal Chitradon - NECTEC
Skills, Technology and Environment
Khun Pramote Janekarn - MOE
Khun Olan Viravan - Board of Trade
Khun Chanphorn Phisanbut - Board of Trade
Khun Sumate Yamnoon - MUA
Khun Vichien Kharnrittee - MUA
Khun Suwan Masmek - MUA
Khun Araya Ma-In - NESDB
Khun Jinaneeoon Rojananan - NESDB
Khun Sawanee Supkitchongcharoen - NESDB
Khun Suthirat Vanasrisawasd - NESDB
Khun Suladda Sirilerkpipat - NESDB
Khun Chatri Sripaipan - NECTEC
Khun Kobkeao Akarakupt - MOSTE
Khun Saowanee Musidang - MOSTE
Khun Duanghatai Naewpanich - NESDB
Khun Pramote Duang-Im - Dept. Non-Formal Education
Khun Kulthida Lertpungwathana - NESDB
Khun Areeya Rojvithee - NESDB
Export Financing
Khun Piyabutr Cholvijarn - Honorable Treasurer, Thai Chamber of Commerce
Khun Chaiyuth Sudthitanakorn, Director of Tax Policy Division - MOF
Khun Panot Punyahotra - Dept. of Export Promotion, MOF
Khun Wanvisa Sirihong - Dept. of Export Promotion, MOF



28
Khun Sirimas Watanchoti - Thai Bankers' Association
Social Safety Nets
Khun Kanokpan Lao-Araya - FPO, MOF
Khun Kavit Sirison - FPO, MOF
Khun Anchana Wongsawang - PDMO, MOF
Khun Pinida Lewchalermwong - Bureau of Budget
Khun Dechapiwat Na Songkhla - Bureau of Budget
Khun Hataichanok Techaratanawiroj - Bureau of Budget
Khun Ariya Limsuwat - MOLSW
Khun Sutasane Suebwongpat - MOLSW
Khun Krirask Chancharaswat - MOLSW
Khun Jutamas Srichamara - Dept. of Public Welfare
Khun Pompimon Ruensiri - Dept. of Employment
Khun Sirikan Santithawat - Dept. Labour Protection and Welfare
Acronymns:
FPO: Fiscal Policy Office
PDMO: Public Debt Management Office
MOF : Ministry of Finance
NESDB  National Economics and Social Development
MUA: Ministry of University Affairs
MOLSW: Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare
MOI Ministry of Industry
MOC: Ministry of Commerce
MOE: Ministry of Education
SET: Stock Exchange of Thailand
SEC : Securities and Exchange Commission
NECTEC : National Electronics and Computer Technology Center
FTI : Federation of Thai Industries



29
ANNEX 8 C: Feedback from Supplementary Bilateral Meetings
with Non-Government Stakeholders
As part of the ICR mission, a number of meetings were held with non-government stakeholders who
provided feedback on the EFAL II components. This exercise was carried out in addition to the
evaluation survey completed at the workshop. In the case of EFAL II, the commitment of
beneficiaries to the project was not essential for its sustainability. However, non-government
beneficiary views provide a broader perspective and additional lessons learned.
The list of type organizations with which interviews were conducted and the areas which they
discussed is below. The views expressed belong to these organizations and are not necessarily those
taken in this ICR.
1. Local Private Consulting Group-Corporate restructuring, competition policy, corporate governance
2. The Foreign Bankers' Association-Finance sector and corporate financial restructuring
3. Private law firm-Legal framework for corporate restructuring-
4. Local Private Consulting Group-Social Safety nets
5. Attache, U.S. Embassy-Labor and social safety nets
6. Chulalongkorn University, Social Policy Research Department - social safety nets
1. Local Private Consulting Group-Corporate restructuring, competition policy, corporate
governance- President, Brooker Group
The Foreign Business Act was seen as one of the most important advances in the reform program.
What remains to be seen is the quality of implementation. The act leaves much to ministerial
declarations to fill out. Other important legal reforms include the Trade Competition Act, which is
also overly vague, leaving open such critical details as what is the definition of monopoly. The
Bankruptcy Law also was an important advance if a bit weak.
The State Enterprise Labor Relations Act which allows the formation of labor unions, combined with
the improving economy, will slow the Thai effort to attract foreign investment.
On the SME side, workouts should have taken place sooner. The SMEs knew that banks would not
pressure them to make good on their loans because the banks had to resolve the NPLs with much
larger enterprises. The result was a big increase in strategic NPLs. The SME Institute designed to
promote SME development, does not use funds efficiently. Restructuring pressure is not as great for
SMEs because the authorities are more concerned with the larger enterprises. The key promotional
issue for SMEs is funds access. One very useful resource would be a proposed website that will
inform on the sources of funds available to SMEs. Venture capital is probably premature, but there
are a wide variety of other funds that could be accessed if their availability were more widely
published. A guarantee fund might actually help with expanding the financing for SMEs and
establish relationships between banks and SMEs, and might also improve SME governance. It would
also be helpful to both financial and the SME sectors if banks would lend on the basis of income
rather than assets.
There was concern about measures the Bank might support to direct investments in SMEs. The
proven way to help SMEs is to remove obstacles in their paths. The website to organize all resources
available to them would be a way of creating a knowledge infrastructure for their benefit.



30
Social safety net premiums such as social security contributions are not a big deterrent to employment
generation. However, the high ceilings for severance pay could be damaging. In addition, employee
committees under the Labor Relations Act can be a burden for SMEs. The time frames under the
Social Security Act need to be defined.
Customs penalties are far out of line for level of mistake committed. For example, not filling in a
form correctly can incur exorbitant penalties for the filer.
There also needs to be greater involvement of the private sector in policy formulation. The Joint
Public/Private Sector Association would provide a forum. Another initiative is that policy should
obtain more explicit input from the private sector through regional chambers of commerce and not
rely exclusively on Bangkok. In so doing, educational needs for the labor force could also be better
assessed.
2. The Foreign Bankers' Association-Finance sector and Corporate Financial Restructuring -
CEO Deutsche Bank
A big improvement since the crisis is the data. BOT macro data are much better and more current.
The bond market is developing. New issues are well received. Bonds will give investors higher
yields.
The CDRAC process could go faster, but the situation is still new. Also the management in the Thai
financial sector is still top down which also slows things down. They need a flatter management
structure. One abuse in the workouts was that debtors were allowed to buy back their own debt. A
particularly bright spot in the resolution of troubled institutions was the case of TPI, which showed
that the court's adjudication of bankruptcy cases could work. The CDRAC process is overall
successful, as the goal of reducing the number of unsolved cases and increasing the number of solved
cases is continually being achieved.
An area that needs attention is increasing the capacity for regulation and supervision. Representation
needs to be broadened. A board could be assembled to provide guidelines and guidance to improve
the capacity of Thai examiners. Participation should include the Thai Bankers' Association and the
Foreign Bankers' Association.
The BOT may have too much power. They do not view themselves as service providers. Because of
The top-down management style and the lack of sufficient capacity, pre-approval of transactions
takes often over a month when it should take a week.
Another concern is that banks don't have expertise to deal with the future. They don't know whether
they will emphasize retail or corporate wholesale. Lending money is not particularly profitable so the
industry must decide where it wants to go before it falls too far behind. Competition is coming
mostly from foreign banks. Foreign banks can also compete in retail. For example, Standard
Chartered's 60 branch offices might compete very well with Nakathorn's hundreds of branches.
Another caution is that Thailand should be cautious about closing branches and not assume that their
problem is on the cost side, until they are certain whether their problem is one of revenue or one of
costs.



31
3. Private law firm-Legal framework for corporate restructuring-
The Bankruptcy law was limited in that it concerned only the larger cases (Bt 1 million or greater).
The Foreclosure Law did not speed up the process for big debtors. One improvement to the law on
liability for debt incurred would be to make corporations liable for all debt incurred, while limiting
the debt liability for individuals. In this way, the law could be strengthened without excessive harm
to individuals.
The Bankruptcy and Foreclosure laws associated with EFAL II occurred at the right time, even
though the crisis was ongoing. However, some of the management of NPLs was not handled well.
There were at least as many strategic NPLs as real NPLs. NPLs went from 30 percent to 95 percent
in finance companies once the 56 finance companies were suspended. Private middle men such as
GE and Goldman Sachs bought up the NPLs, often selling the debt back to the original debtor at a
profit, but also at a considerable discount of the original loan. In secured lending, more areas of
assets need to be secured including inventories and concessions.
The Ministry of Justice is taking on too much drafting of law. More should be farmed out to ease the
strain on judges. On State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), the law has not actually been changed
relieving banks of criminal liability for damages, however, clear declarations from the Ministry of
Finance have stated that such cases will not be prosecuted so banks do have adequate cover. In
general, criminal law needs a serious overhaul in Thailand. Civil law works relatively well, but
criminal law cases experience lengthy delays and need vast improvement in implementation.
The tax treatment of mergers is too harsh with both entities having to pay tax, but if one makes a loss,
it cannot be counted against the other's profit. That change should be made. This is also an issue of
competitiveness, because Thai companies have to be able to combine and spin-off as market
opportunities arise.
4. Local Private Consulting Group-Social Safety nets -TRIS
An evaluation of the fiscal stimulus through social programs is being carried out. The preliminary
conclusions are that the poverty impact of most of the programs is low, which is partially a result of
slow disbursement. Slow disbursement is caused in part by difficulties in targeting. The program
judged best at alleviating poverty was not a targeted program, but rather one which allocated equal
amounts ($2,500 equivalent) in over 80,000 projects at the lowest administrative governmental units
across Thailand. Although not targeted nor even based on population, these projects, by virtue of
their very decentralized nature encouraged a great deal of community involvement and, at least, did
not go to the benefit of the relatively well-off. This type of project was also well-suited to the limited
capacity to implement projects with complex targeting criteria.
With better data, as gradually being developed, targeting can be improved. The evaluation also noted
that the transfer payment increase of Bt200 to Bt300 were not carried out in a timely way, were often
insufficient and not tailored to the different needs of many elderly poor.
There is a constitutional mandate to meet basic needs. The poverty incidence was 11.4 percent in the
1996 SES, rose to 12.9 percent in 1998, but was not yet available for 1999. The target is 10 percent.



32
5. Attache, U.S. Embassy-Labor and social safety nets
There is not much harmony among labor leaders and many were offered political positions to get
them out of the process. The state enterprise labor act helps labor because they can now bargain. It
might slow privatization, but that might be solved with equity participation of the workers.
Job creation is not happening fast enough to ease the pressure. An estimated half million discouraged
workers have dropped out of the labor force and are not counted in the official unemployment
statistic. Discouraged workers account for about a quarter of the total persons cut of work. Persons
temporarily employed by foreign funded fiscal stimulus account for another quarter of the persons.
Thus, about twice the I million official unemployed do not have secure permanent work.
Government does not appear to feel the pressure of the employment crunch and is not enthusiastic
about providing unemployment protection. In the reform program, the threat of slippage is greatest
with social safety nets. There is also no real champion in the government. for unemployment
insurance.
The big issue for Thai labor in competitiveness is the level of education. Education has not been a
large emphasis for Thailand for many years, because shortfalls in skilled manpower during the boom
times could be filled by foreign workers. Skilled foreign workers would come from Taiwan,
Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia and Europe. But for Thailand to achieve competitiveness, it has to
extend compulsory education from the 9th grade through high school. It also has to improve its higher
level graduate curricula.
These long-term efforts need to be driven by clear long-term goals. The Thai government needs to
ask itself, "Where are we going to be in 5, 10 and 20 years?"
6. Chulalongkorn University, Social Policy Research Department - social safety nets
The two main social programs, SIP and Miyazawa were not well planned. Implementing agencies
were told to come up with projects. To meet this requirement, they often had to revive projects that
were no longer needed or relevant. Much of it was just the restoration of cuts made when the crisis
first hit.
Decentralization is a good basis for targeting, but targeting could go further at the local level with the
local village head doing a better job of directing the project proceeds to the poor.
The threat of monitoring the project and accountability slowed disbursement in some of the
components. Construction companies would have to locate unemployed workers. Officials knew the
efforts to target would be scrutinized, but finding the unemployed was not always easy, especially
with the unemployed concentrated in the northeast region.
Those who know who is poor are at the lowest level, of provincial government. That is why the SES
and the LFS need to feed back to the provincial level. Data do come from the provincial level, but
they are analyzed and kept in Bangkok in a very centralized way. It would help targeting if the data
once analyzed and processed could flow back to the provinces for their use and planning.



33
Annex 9: Summary of Progress in Social Sector Projects
In order to mitigate the social impact of the crisis and stimulate domestic demand, the GOT
introduced institutional reforms to increase the effectiveness of social policy and implemented a
series of social programs to protect the poor through public workfare and means-tested cash transfers
and in-kind transfers. In keeping with a Board condition of the EFAL II, the GOT committed to
prepare specific spending projects totaling about I percent of GDP. In order to improve the design
and coordination of social policy, the GOT appointed the Council of Social Ministers under the direct
leadership of the Prime Minister. The Council was responsible for overseeing the development of an
action plan to design social protection
Progress to date
Expenditures on safety net programs represented 2.1 percent of GDP in 1999. Part of these programs
were externally financed. During the period March 1998-March 1999, three packages targeting social
protection were introduced: i) the Social Program Loan (US$ 500 million from ADB equivalent to 2.3
percent of the Government FY99 budget); ii) the Social Investment project (US$ 462 million from
World Bank) in November 1998; and iii) the Miyazawa Expenditure Package (US$ 250 million from
OECF, USD 600 million from the Government of Japan, and USD 600 million from the World Bank)
in March 1999.
From a macroeconomic perspective, the demand stimulus resulting from these social programs is
estimated to have contributed around I percentage point to the GDP grovwth rate in 1999. While data
about the number and socio-demographic characteristics of beneficiaries from the different social
programs is still scarce, preliminary analysis suggests that original targets were largely achieved. For
instance, in the case of the Miyazawa Plan's programs for employment generation, 65,223 educated
workers (76 percent of the target) and 3.5 million unskilled workers (80 percent of the target) have
been hired by the end of 1999 (the average employment length was 18 days). Also, 2,000 villages
received training and financial support trough the Department of Community Development. The
same program provided loans to 30,000 farmers, while the Department of Agricultural Promotion
provided training to 1,094 farmers out of targeted 1,270. In terms of the programs providing cash or
in-kind transfers (e.g., meals for children), estimates suggest that they have benefited over 1.2
million persons or 35,000 households. The programs also included provision of financial support (Bt
10,000) to 990 HIV/AIDS-affected persons, and monthly transfers of Bath 300 to 400,000 poor
elderly
After two years of continuous progress in the implementation of social programs, several lessons have
been derived in terms of the major difficulties and constraints affecting the implementation process.
These can be grouped in the following areas: 1) targeting, 2) transparency, 3) cost-effectiveness of
programs and evaluation; and 4) coordination between agencies and network units.
In terms of targeting, social programs have not always been successful in identifying and helping the
poor. In part, this is a consequence of the tradeoff existing between the speed of disbursement, which
is critical during a downturn, and the effectiveness of the targeting mechanism. For instance, funds
disbursed to local government or communities on the basis of the preparation of projects usually
result in fast disbursement, however, resources tend to concentrate in those regions where human and
institutional capacity is higher. Centrally managed programs on the other side can allocate resources
using alternative criteria based on socioeconomic indicators. Nonetheless, disbursement tends to be
slower, while the allocation criteria is not always transparent or equitable.
Central and line agencies have manifested that because the development and implementation of safety



34
net programs usually involve different stakeholders, transparency tends to increase. Although the
media has focused on corruption and lack of transparency in budget allocations which promote
inequality, preliminary audits suggest that social safety net funds have been managed relatively free
of corruption. For instance, from more than 80,000 projects supported within the Miyazawa package,
only 300 complaints have been received.
Central agencies have also faced difficulties in terms of identifying cost-effective employment and
training programs. Indeed, programs are often designed without the proper knowledge of the cultural
and socioeconomic characteristics of the population they target. For instance, some programs have
created jobs through infrastructure projects that targeted workers who are not prepared to undertake
the work. Similarly, some of the training programs have not had any impact on the employment
situation of their trainees (e.g., training programs for rubber tapping).
Finally, one of the major drawbacks of the implementation of safety net programs is that they have
induced the proliferation of social funds which often target the same markets, thus generating an
inefficient allocation of resources. This is the result of poor coordination mechanisms between
implementing agencies and network units.



35
ANNEX 10: EFAL 2 SUPERVISION: THE POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY               I
1. MACROECONOMIC AND FISCAL
1. Fiscal Stimulus
Issue: Resumption  of economic growth requires    The Borrower has prepared  specific spending    Maintain an appropriate macroeconomic framework to
providing a fiscal stimulus to the economy.         projects totaling about one percent (1%) of gross    support a demand stimulus to accelerate recovery.
Objectives: Increase aggregate demand via expansion    domestic product, and has allocated an amount of
Objectives: Increase aggregate demand via expansion    about forty percent (40%) of said amount to
of public expenditure programs.                     expenditures  to  protect the  poor, including
expenditures on: (a) public workfare, and (b)
means-tested cash transfer and in-kind transfer.
The Borrower has adopted a program  to make
more credit available to corporate entities carrying
out government contracts.
Progress/Status: On March 30, 1999, the Ministry of Finance submitted to the cabinet for approval a Bt53.6 billion fiscal stimulus package and tax measures aimed at stimulating
the economy as well as mitigate the social impacts of the crisis. As of February 2000, Bt43,250 million or 82.44% of the total approved amount of Bt52,460 million has been
disbursed. According to econometric studies, the amount disbursed contributed 0.8-0.9 percentage points to the GDP growth in 1999. For year 2000 the contribution is expected
to range between 0.4 and 0.6 percentage points (See Attachment for details).
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING -
1. MANAGING PROBLEM INSTITUTIONS
1. Orderly Resolution of the 56 Closed Finance Companies
Issue: The FRA needs to finalize the sale of assets of   Independent experts of international standing selected    Within three months of the purchase of assets from the
the 56 finance companies. The AMC is expected to    by MOF have completed a satisfactory review of the    FRA, the  AMC  will prepare  a plan  for the
take part in the sale as a bidder of last resort, and needs    FRA and of the AMC                        management and ultimate disposition of these assets.
to have capacity to fulfill this role.              The FRA has completed the third round of auction    As quickly as possible, the FRA will have initiated the
Objectives: Continue showing concrete progress in    of core financial assets and has formulated an    process of adjudication of claims to creditors.
the resolution of FCs which have been taken over, so    action plan to deal with residual assets.
as to enhance confidence  of the domestic and    The FRA has finalized and communicated to creditors
intemational markets.                               the procedures for submitting and adjudicating claims.



36
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                    BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                               LET TER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Progress I Status.
As of November 30, 1999, AMC had purchasedBt 193 billion (book value) of assets at a price of Bt 33 billion from FRA. 'I'he Bank sent a letter to the Minister which stated that the Bank has not
yet received the plan, and suggesting an independent review of the AMC. Thle FPO called a meeting with the AMC and the Bank, and both parties said that the plan is forthcoming. FRO staff have
met with AMC management on three occasions to discuss their strategy.
As of the end of 1999, proceeds from the liquidation ofcore and non-core assets by the FRA totaled Bt 186 billion ($5 billion), which is 28% of the outstanding principal balance of Bt 664.8 billion
($18 billion). T'he FRA is now adjudicating creditor's claims and distributing proceeds. More than 2,900 creditors, representing over Bt 920 billion ($24.8 billion) from the liquidation of 56 closed
finance companies filed their claims for the FRA managed liquidation. In August 99. the FRA retained a consulting firm (funded by FSIAI.) to advise on adjudication of creditor claims and procedure
for distribution of proceeds to creditors. The FRA has completed the adjudication of claims for thirteen of the fifty six finanice companies. The FRA began the distribution of proceeds for less
complicated cases in lQ 2000. and plans to complete the distribution to all creditors of56 finance companies by QI 2001. Potential disruption ofthe process has arisen tromt the tiling ofcivil suits by
creditors who seek judgemeots for 100% of their claims, instead of pro-rata with other creditors. The FRA and the MOF are working with the courts to resolve this problem..
2. Restructuzring and recapitalization of the C ore Financial Institutions
Issue: 'I'he authiorities must continue to take timely    The BOT has approved:                                     13v the second quarter of 1999.
action against the weakest financial institutions.        *  a time-bound plan for the consolidation of thc   *   K'l"l' will have completed ftull integration of the
Program.   (ontlinued   implementation   of  loan            twelve finance companies into KTT, and for the            interveined finance coinpanies and LJBB, including
classificationi and provisioning standards in line with      subsequent consolidation of KTT with UJBB;                recapitalization of the combinied entity after f'ull
best international practices, with  intervenition  and    * a plan for the recapitalization of the consolidated        provisioninge and
resoluition of nioniviaible inlStituItions.                  KI1B Ithe  Covernmilent  will  have   completed  the
The Blanik of 'I hailand has signed Memoranda ot            operational restructuring  and  recapitalization  ol'
UJnderstanidinig with all banks and tinance coinpanies      K'113 after the full provisionilig.
needing to raise additional capital through June 1999.    By the second quarter of 1999. i'BCB license will have
BO'r will have developed an operational restructuring     heert revoked.
plan for the combined KTB, which should include    fly the third quarter of 1999. RAI3 will have been
steps toward its privatization within two years.        privatized.
By the fourth quarter of 1999, winning
bids will have been selected for the
privatization of BMB and SCIB.



37
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                             BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Progress/Status:
*   KTT, the subject intervened finance companies and Union Bank were merged to form Bank Thai. Operational integration is complete. Bt 87 billion of new capital was
injected by the FIDF, but the loss sharing and yield maintenance agreement between the bank and the FIDF has yet to be finalized. T his means that Bank Thai is losing money,
and will have to be recapitalized by June unless the agreement is finalized and/or the bank is privatized.
*   Regarding KTB: (a) BOT did develop an operational restructuring plan for KTB. However, that plan was obviated by a difficult political dynamic in which the opposition
party attacked the Minister by linking problems at KTB (the degree of NPLs, for example) with the fact that the previous president was the Minster's brother. The new
president, Khun Meechi, and the entire Board of Director's was replaced. The new president, Board and MOF are now considering a new plan, which involves moving a
significant portion of the NPLs (and losses) to an FIDF owned AMC. The Ministry would take over ownership of the KTB. While KTB is moving forward with various aspects
of operational restructuring under the previous plan, much is on hold pending the plan for the AMC. (b) Since 1998 the Government has injected about B 205 billion into KTB.
However, this is arguably not enough to cover all the losses in both KTB and the proposed AMC, especially given delays in finalizing the loss sharing and yield maintenance
agreement between the FIDF and the bank. The draft EFAL III policy matrix carries these issues forward.
The license of FBCB has not been revoked because, according to the authorities, the corporate entity is still needed to conduct certain transactions. The MoF has extended the
date for revocation of the license to Q2 2000.
75% of RSB' shares were bought by United Overseas Bank of Singapore (UOB). The transaction was completed in Q3 1999.
Negotiations of BoT with bidders for BMB and SCIB are on-going. The authorities believe that the winner from BMB will be announced early in Q2 2000. SCIB will be
delayed further due to pricing problems. Despite political opposition, the authorities remain committed to selling these banks.
2. STRENGTHENING THE FINANCIAL SECTOR STRUCTURE
1. Strategy for the future offinancial services (see also 2.3 and 3.1)
Issue: The Government needs to address the broader    The Financial Services Task Force (FSTF) has been  By May 31, 1999, the FSTF will have:
structural problems preventing the financial sector    established                                   *   Identified, with assistance from the Bank, the issues
from acting as a prudent and efficient intermediary of                                                   to be addressed to achieve a sound and efficient
savings.                                                                                                 financial sector, and
Objectives: Identify and implement reforms needed to                                                  *   Reviewed  the  interim  report  prepared  with
ensure that the financial sector is safe, sound, efficient                                                assistance from the Bank, on upgrading financial
in pricing and delivering financial services.                                                             sector policies and infrastructure.
By August 31, 1999, the Task Force will submit its
final recommendations to the MOF, based on the final
report prepared with Bank assistance.



38
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Progress / Status:
|   A round table of international experts was organized by the Bank and held by the task force in July 1999. The Bank organized a day long presentation in which the
Monetary Authority of Singapore described their own strategic planning effort for the financial sector. The task force identified the key banking sector issues. Khun
Prasarn of the SEC plans to present the capital markets issues for review by the task force in Q2 2000.
*   In Q2 2000, the task force will send their preliminary report on the banking sector issues to the Minister of Finance for his review and feedback. The report on the capital
markets related issues will follow.
There is delay for submission of the FSTF recommendations in final report form to the MoF. The preliminary draft of the EFAL III matrix picks this up.
2. Capital market development
Issue: The bond market needs to be developed to    The Working Group for Domestic Bond Market   The Working Group will take measures to remove
ensure the successful placement of Government bond    Development has identified areas that need to be    possible impediments to private sector purchases of
issues.                                             addressed to deepen the government bond market and    bonds, and will establish an action plan to reform the
Objectives: Lay the foundation of a sustainable bond    has   established   Task   Forces  to   develop    debt and risk management system of the public sector.
market with sufficient breadth and depth to facilitate   recommendations on each identified issue.       BOT will start to develop a comprehensive system
the raising of capital by the private sector, facilitate the                                             integration for automated delivery-versus-payments.
conduct of monetary policy, and enhance systemic
stability and growth.
Progress / Status:
The reforms under the EFAL 11 policy matrix have been well met. 'T'he MOF has established the Domestic Bond Market Committee in September 1998 by inviting participants
from the BOT, the SEC, the Thai Bond Dealing Center and two commercial banks (i.e., TFB and Bangkok Bank). By the beginning of 1999, the Committee identified specific
issues to be addressed and established eight task forces, each led by a member institution and inviting further participation of experts, to address those. The eight areas included:
1) strengthening of the primary market system and cash/treasury management of the MOF, 2) policies for enhancement of the secondary market architecture, 3) upgrading of the
clearance and settlement systems (particularly to achieve delivery versus payments or DVP), 4) identification and removal of tax and other impediments, 5) enhancement of bond
market information systems, 6) standardization of trading practice and establishment of code of conducts by market participants, 7) enhancement of repurchase agreement (repo)
transactions and market systems, and 8) establishment of a comprehensive debt management capacity in the MOF. In August 1999, the Committee organized a workshop to
discuss the task forces' achievements and remaining issues. The task force working on the fourth issue led by the Revenue Department of the MOF was responsible for the first
of the two conditions of the LDP, and that on1 the third issue led by the BOT, for the other. The fourth task force reviewed the cxisting withholding tax and taxation of discount
instruments and repos, and established an action plan to reform taxation of repos and withholding tax and study taxation of derivatives and introduction of capital gains tax. 'I'he
third task force started working on development of an electronic system to achieve real time delivery versus payments from early 1998 and by September, completed a project
preparation. BOT started to developed a comprehensive system integration for automated delivery versus payments. Advisory services were completed Ql 2000.



39
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                  BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                             LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
3. Specialized Financial Institutions (SFls)
Issue:  Preliminary  assessments  of the  financial    On-site exarninations have been initiated in all SFls    By May 31, 1999, MOF will adopt a time-bound
operations of the SFIs indicate the need to upgrade    under BOT supervision.                                    action plan, to strengthen the tinancial condition and
their risk management capacity and internal controls.   BOT has adopted a preliminary action plan to enable it   risk management capacity of those SFIs which will be
Objectives: Strengthen the financial operations of the    to  carry  out  effectively  its  new   supervisory    used for enhancing credit expansion
SFls, which play a major role in the Thai financial    responsibility over SFIs.                                 By September 30, 1999:
system. Evaluate role and mandate of SFIs in view of                                                             * MOF will have confirmed or revised the role and
the cLirrent transformations in the financial system.                                                               scope of each  SFI's activities and their fiscal
treatment.
* the Borrower will review the capitalization needs of
the SFIs based on BOT examinations.
* BOT  will have adopted a detailed time-bound
action plan for the supervision of SFls. The plan
will include deadlines for the preparation  and
submission of appropriate amendments to the law
and the issuance of enhanced prudential rules.
Progress/ Status -
Advisory services were retained in October 1999, and a draft, time bound action plan was prepared for the rationalization of alFls. The MOF is now amending the consultant's recommendations
based on further internal negotiations with stakeholders. One issue is that the implementation of the matrix requires additional manpower in the MOF, and the Bank has offered to assist: The draft
EFAL IIl matrix carries this forward. The Bank and the ADB are pursing this project in a joint venture fashion. The next phase includes institutional strengthening of the variouSFis. The Bank
is working with the Government Housing Bank and the Government Savings Bank.
A three phase program for reform of SFI supervision has been developed with the BOT and thd\4oF, and is being implemented w ith funiding and direct technical assistance from the Bank. The first
study pahse is complete; the action plan will be developed in phase 11 (Q2 2000).
3. ENHANCING THE REGtlLATORY AND SUPERVISORY REGIME
1. A comprehensive supervision framework
Issue: Financial institutions are currently supervised                                                           By Junc 30, 1999, MOF will have established a Task
by several agencies. This approach can result in gaps                                                            Force of all supervisory authorities whose purpose is
in the supervisory process and inconsistent decisions                                                           to identify and draft those regulatory changes required
regarding the supervision of financial functions.                                                                to supervise financial conglomerates effectively and
Objectives:  .-larmonize  prudential .regulations and                                       ensure consistency in the prudential regulation and
supertvisi    taromotize  fru  compe ttions amn                                                                  supervision of all financial institutions.  The Task
supervision  to  promote  fair  competition  among                                                               Foc.ilsbi t  eotadrcmedtosb
different financial institutions and the soundness of the                                                        Force will submit its report and recommendations by 
sector.                                                                                                          December31 1999.



40
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                                  BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                             LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                 =
Progress I Status l
The MoF called the first meeting of the task force in March 2000. Participants included the MoF, the BOT, the Department of Insurance, the Auditor General, and the
Supervisor for Cooperatives. Presentations were made by senior supervisors from the EC and the US. The Bank is engaging a consultant to assist the task force to prepare its
recommendations, which are anticipated by FOY 2000.
2. Strengthening supervision and regulation offinancial institutions
Issue: Banking supervision needs to he strengthened in    The BOT  has completed  a review  of the draft    The BOT will complete a review of the draft Law on
terms of both supervisory capacity and legal foundations    commercial hank and finance companies laws.          Central Bank by April 30, 1999.
for the  regulation  and  supervision  of financial                                                              By April 30, 1999, the Borrower will have made
institutions. Complementing the work of Bank staff, a                                                            public  the  recommendations  of  the   Steering
Steering  Committee  of  international experts  is                                                               Committee of international experts, and its intentions
providing its own recommendations on these matters.                                                              with regard to such recommendations.
Objectives: Strengthen  BOI' operations and  legal                                                               By July 31, 1999, the Cabinet approval will be sought
authority to support its mandate of supervision and                                                              for a new draft Financial Institutions Law (covering
regulation of financial institutions including authority                                                         banks and  finance companies) to  strengthen  the
to take prompt corrective action,                                                                                regulatory  framework  for  financial  institutions,
including prompt corrective action.
Progress / Status
To our knowledge, the Steering Committee's report was not officially released by the Government. The Steering Committee was charged with making recommendations on improvements to the
supervisory regime in Thailand. Events have outpaced such a release. The draft "Financial Institutions Law" was reviewed by an independent, international consultant. The BOT held meetings
with the industry, and obtained their comments on the draft, some of which were ineorporated.
The draft "Central Bank Act" and "Financial Institutions Law" were approved by Cabinet in Q 1 2000. The draft acts approved by Cabinet curtails tht3OT's independence in comparison with the
BOT drafts. The Cabinet is now reconsidering this issue, along with the ability of the Ministry to utilize BOT reserves at its discretion. Given the legislative calendar, the drafts will have to be
considered by the next Government before release for Parliament's consideration. As a result, the earliest enactment will be mid-2001.
3. Deposit insurance scheme
Issue: The general blanket guarantee provided in                                                                 Draft  legislation   authorizing   a  limited-deposit
August 1997 to all non-suspended financial institutions                                                         insurance scheme will be submitted to the Cabinet for
-- an emergency measure to restore the confidence of                                                             its approval.
depositors and creditors - generates moral hazard and
needs to be replaced as soon as feasible by a limited
deposit insurance program.
Objectives: Once confidence in the domestic financial
system is restored, phase out the August 1997
comprehensive guarantee, and replace it with a more
limited deposit-insurance scheme



41
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                            BoARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                        LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Progress / Status
Preliminary draft legislation was prepared by BOT. The MoF has decided to delay further consideration of this draft because they believe that public confidence is still too low
to restrict depositor protection. It is unlikely that the draft will he submitted to Cabinet during this Government's term. The FIDF has requested assistance in learning
international experience in setting up a deposit insurance organization.
III. CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING
1. STRENGTHENING THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK -
1. Provide appropriate legislative and institutionalframeworks for corporate bankruptcies and reorganizations.
Issues: The legislative and institutional framework for   The Borrower has taken the following measures to    Government will continue its review and updating of
corporate insolvency needs to be strengthened to   strengthen  the  legislative  and  institutional   the legislative, procedural, and institutional regimes
facilitate the reorganization of companies and to   frameworks  for  corporate  restructuring:  (a)   for corporate bankruptcies and reorganizations under
maximize recovery of distressed assets.           further revisions to the Bankruptcy Act B.E. 2483    the  auspices of the  Bankruptcy  Law  Reforn
(1940), as amended, have been approved by the    Committee with representation from the MOJ, MOF,
Lower House of Parliament to facilitate the process    Attorney General's Department, commercial banking
of corporate bankruptcy and reorganization; (b) an    community, private law firms, and others.
Act to establish the bankruptcy court and its
proceedings has been passed by the Lower House of
Parliament; and (c) the Borrower has adopted an
action plan to enhance the capacity of the Ministry
of Justice to expedite the processing of bankruptcy
cases.
Progress/ Status:
- RTG continues to review the legal and procedural implications of the corporate bankruptcies and business reorganizations under the Bankruptcy Law (BL)
- Legal interpretation of insolvency remains unclear as to what test should be applied to determine insolvency
- BL is seen as creditors' tool for debt collection instead of the intended protection for debtors and/or tool for enforcing security rights
- WB's Legal Mission in Jan 2000 assessed the legal environment and found that insolvency regime needs to be strengthened, and there should be legal
separation between individual and corporate bankruptcies.



42
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Provide appropriate legislative and institutionalframeworkfor secured lending.
Issues: Existing procedures for the enforcement of    The Borrower has taken the following measures to   In mid-1999 the secured lending bill will be submitted
secured rights by creditors are subject to delay. The    strengthen  the  legislative   and   institutional   to Cabinet for its approval.
types of assets that can legally be used by debtors to   frameworks for secured lending: (a) amendments
securc loans are limited to a narrow group of assets.  to the Code of Civil Procedure to expedite the
Objectives and Program: Facilitate the provision of    enforcement of security  interests  have  been
credit through a comprehensive legislative regime for    approved by the Lower House of Parliament; and
secured lending, including suitable procedures to speed    (b) to facilitate the use and enforcement of securityl
up the realization of secured interests,            interests and to create new security interests, the
Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower has adopted
an  action  plan  to  prepare  additional draft
legislation, including legislation  regarding   the
establishment of an automated modernized registry
system.
Progress/Status : Currently it is being reviewed by the Judicial Council, and will be submitted to the Cabinet for approval thereafter.
2. STRENGTHENING THE ENABLING ENVIRONMENT
3. Facilitate information sharing among creditors on debt service performance by individual companies.
Issues: A  lack of information  on debt service    The Cabinet has approved the establishment of a    By July 31, 1999 draft legislation for the establishment
performance by individual companies increases the    Credit Bureau open to all financial institutions and    of the Credit Bureau will have been submitted to
reluctance of financial institution creditors to extend    trade creditors.                             Parliament.
credit.                                                                                                 Subject to approval by Parliament, the Credit Bureau,
Objectives and Program: Establishment of a Credit                                                       with authority for full exchange of information among
Bureau would improve lending decisions and help                                                         participating creditors (e.g. banks, finance companies,
limit the access of firms who choose to default on                                                      trade creditors and branches of foreign banks) shall
obligations to increased credit.                                                                        have been duly established and begun operation.
Progress/ Status
RTG is in the process of setting up a Credit Bureau to provide information to financial institutions and trade creditors.
The legislation has not been submitted to the Parliament.



43
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
4. Facilitate debt/equity conversions and the efficient sale of distressedfinancial assets.
Issues: Because of high leverage in the corporate sector,  BOT has put into effect a regulation to enable the    A  Working Group, which consists of public and
the exchange of non-performing debt for equity will be  establishment  and  operation  of  private  asset    private sector representation, is reviewing potential
frequently used as a restructuring instrument. The legal  management companies,                         impediments to the efficient sale of distressed debt,
infrastructure  for such  transactions is incomplete,                                                   sale of converted equity, or professional management
particularly with respect to the issuance of new shares to                                              of converted equity on behalf of financial institutions.
retire debt.                                                                                            If necessary, by May 31, 1999, the Working Group
Financial institutions are restricted from owning more                                                  will submit to the Cabinet for its approval amendments
than 10% of the equity of any firm, and from owning                                                     to  relevant regulations which  will facilitate the
property outside of their own headquarters and branches.                                                disposition and effective management of converted
Furthermore, financial institutions are not prepared to                                                 equity.
manage and dispose of these assets in a manner
consistent with maximizing recovery. The creation of
vehicles to acquire and professionally manage distressed
assets may  considerably  improve governance  and
promote restructuring.
Progress/Status: The Cabinet has approved the elimination of tax impediments to bank majority-owned AMC. The AMCs are also allowed to undertake more activities such
as real estate development of foreclosed assets.
5. Eliminate remaining tax disincentives to corporate restructuring.
Issue: Consolidation, through mergers and acquisition,    The  Working  Group  on  tax  impediments  to    Based upon its review of recommendations from the
is likely to be a common feature of corporate   restructuring has been reconvened to consider the need    Working Group, the Revenue Department will prepare
restructuring. Improvements to the tax treatment of   for improvements to the tax treatment of mergers,   any necessary amendments to the Revenue Code.
mergers  and  acquisitions  may  further facilitate    acquisitions and other restructuring transactions. This
industry consolidation and new investment.          Working Group has solicited suggestions from private
Objectives and Program: The Revenue Code will be    sector experts.
amended to eliminate remaining tax disincentives to
corporate restructuring.  Public and private-sector
experts would jointly identify issues and necessary
changes to the Revenue Code.



44
OBJECIIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Progress/ Status
WB is providing TA in hiring a legal expert to study, assess, and recommend possible reforms of the Mergers and Acquisitions Law.
The study should be completed by April 2000.
3. SPEEDING THE RESTRUCTURING PROCESS
6. Provide improved monitoring ofprogress on corporate restructuring.
Issue: While the task of corporate restructuring    The Borrower has put into effect an improved
remains appropriately focused in the private sector, the    system to monitor progress in corporate
task of monitoring progress in corporate restructuring    restructuring to enable it to revise the estimate of
is appropriately centralized. The monitoring provided        .                     .           .
by  the  Corporate  Debt Restructuring  Advisory    progress in corporate restructurng and provided
Committee and Bank of Thailand to date has been    monthly updates thereof.
incomplete, irregular, and inadequate to support a    CDRAC  is supporting  improved  sequencing  of
comprehensive understanding of the task.            voluntary workouts (e.g. encourage a creditor meeting
Objectives and Program: A centralized monitoring    within 30 days after a loan becomes non-performing)
system  would permit the setting of realistic goals,   and continues to identify impediments to successful
facilitate  an  efficient  sequencing  of corporate   resolution.
restructuring cases in the private sector, identify    CDRAC   is  supporting  the  enhancement  of
impediments and bottlenecks for timely resolution, and    professional  restructuring  capacity  and  public
facilitate information-sharing between creditors on    awareness of corporate restructuring through the T'hai
debtor liabilities and debt-service performance.    Bankers  Association,  Association   of  Finance
Companies, and Federation of Thai Industries.
BOT requires creditors to choose to either continue a
voluntary  restructuring  process,  court-supervised
reorganization, or bankruptcy within 90 days of the
initial meeting between lead creditor and debtor.



45
[             OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Progress/Status:
- CDRAC is in the process of hiring 5 debt restructuring strategic advisors, 3 training programs, a MarComm consultant.
- Mediation Program is in place. CDRAC needs to explore the need to acquire mediation, legal, and accounting consultants.
7. Develop an efficient mechanism to resolve disputes amongfinancial institution creditors.
Issue: As negotiations with debtors progress, serious    BOT has provided to financial                  If creditors are unable to devise a mechanism  for
differences among creditors may arise. Interests and     tut         dit             I                  facilitating agreement on a restructuring plan, 130T
sensitivities will differ depending upon whether the    InstItution creditors a sample                  will review options, including the use of its own
financial institution creditor is, for example, secured or    arbitration contract to encourage the     authority  to  resolve  disputes  among  financial
unsecured, domestic or foreign, and in a strong or    development of inter-creditor dispute             institution  creditors that arise  during  voluntary
weak financial position. For various reasons, major    resolution mechanisms and 75%                    corporate workouts.
financial institution creditors are wary of any BOT or
other official arbitration of inter-creditor disputes.  voting thresholds for approval of
Objectives and Program: A Inechanism is needed    restructuring plans.
that can efficiently resolve differences among financial
institutions in a workout situation.
Financial cluster to provide inputs on this
8. Develop a clear strategy concerning the position of the Government as a creditor or shareholder of distressed corporates.
Issue: Through government contracting and through    The Borrower will encourage state-owned financial
nationalization   of  financial  institutions,  the    institutions to exercise their role as creditor to speed
government is a creditor or owner of many firms that    up corporate debt restructuring.
are not performing on debt obligations to commercial
financial institutions. The existence of obligations to
the  government should  not result in  delay  of
restructuring of obligations to other creditors.
Objectives and  Program: The Government will
formulate a strategy for exercising its position as a
creditor  to  encourage  and  speed   corporate
restructuring, and to eliminate delays to the process
caused by the role of publicly-owned creditors. This
strategy may include the supporting of the position of
lead creditors in the restructuring process.



46
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                             BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
IV. COMPETITIVENESS
1. FINANCiAL ACCOUNTABILITY AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
1. Rationalize the institutionalframeworkfor setting standards and regulating accounting and auditing practices.
Issue: A private-sector independent organization is   The Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower has    By July 31, 1999, the Cabinet shall submit draft
not responsible for the formal accounting standard-    approved a framework to: (a) streamline the    legislation to Parliament.
setting process. Moreover, there are multiple agencies   institutional framework for setting accounting and
that  regulate,  supervise,  and  define  reporting    auditing standards and regulating the profession;
requirements. The  ICAAT, which  develops all   (b) establish the Thailand Financial Accounting
accounting  and  auditing  standards, is not fully    Standard Board as an independent entity with
independent in the standard-setting process and is not    authority  to  set accounting  standards, with
a self-regulating national professional body.       members from the accounting profession, business,
t    .  .          .                   ~~~~~~~~government and academia; and  (c) make the
Objectives and Program: Streamline the institutional    Insttt o rd accountan and  Auditors of
fraewr k fo  setn.tnad   adrgltnh                    Institute of Certified Accountants and Auditors of
framework for setting standards and regulating the Thiad        n     idenet slfrgaoy
accounting and auditing profession. Establish an
independent standard-setting organization, to be called    professional body consistent with international best
the Thailand Financial Accounting Standard Board    practices.
(TFASB) consistent with international best practices.    The Ministry of Commerce has submitted draft
Strengthen the ICAAT's role in standard setting and    legislation to Cabinet for its approval.
regulating the profession consistent with international
best practices. An independent and self-regulating
ICAAT  will be responsible for setting  auditing
standards and regulating the profession.
Progress/Status: Draft legislation to allow establishment of TFASB and strengthening of ICAAT is now with the Council of States.



47
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                               BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                          LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Improve the quality and reliability of keyfinancial information provided by public corporations to regulators, shareholders, and the general public.
Issue:   Accounting  and  auditing  standards and    Improved accounting and auditing standards for listed    New  specific rules on  accounting, auditing, and
practices, particularly  in  the  areas of financial    companies have been adopted, as well as large non-    financial disclosures for banks, finance companies and
statement  disclosures,  loss  recognition,  asset   listed public companies, and banks and financial    SFIs in line with international best practices will be
classification, marketable securities, debt restructuring    institutions with assets in excess of Baht I billion. This   issued by June 30, 1999.
and impairment of assets, as well as audit reports, are   includes revision of standards for financial statement
not consistent with international best practices.    disclosures, asset classification,  and  marketable
Objectives and Program: Upgrade accounting and    securities, as well as issuance of new standards for
auditing standards to make them  consistent with   troubled debt restructuring.
international best practices, and revise relevant laws    The plan to improve the quality of audit reports has
and regulations as necessary to require that financial    been implemented for listed companies, non-listed
statements of public companies be prepared and    public companies, as well as banks and financial
audited in accordance with such standards beginning    institutions. The implementation included a revised
with the year 1999.                                  format (proposed  by ICAAT) for audit reports,
consistent with international best practices.
MOC has deleted inactive limited companies from the
registration files.
Progress/Status: Improved accounting and auditing standards consistent with international best practice has been issued. BOT has prepared new specific rules on accounting
and disclosures for banks, finance companies and SFIs in line with international best practice.
3. Strengthen thefinancial oversight role of the board of directors of corporations by requiring the establishment of audit comnittees
Issue: The internal control and the related oversight                                                     Based on the review of existing requirements for the
role of the boards of directors of companies are weak.                                                    audit committees of boards of directors and internal
Audit committees of the boards of directors are non-                                                      control for listed companies, by April 30, 1999, SET
existent or ineffective.                                                                                  will adopt a time-bound program to implement the
Objectives and Program:  Strengthen the internal                                                          improved requirements, including committees' roles
control structure of listed companies, banks, and                                                         and  responsibilities, to  a  level consistent with
financial institutions and the related responsibility for                                                 international best practices.
oversight of the internal audit function and selection of
external auditors.
lProgress/Status : SET has revised requirements for audit committees of listed companies. Code of Best Practices for listed company directors has been prepared.



48
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                             BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
4. Improve accountability of boards of directors, management, and shareholder rights of public companies
Issue: Boards of directors of listed companies and    The Working Group has submitted to MOC  its   If necessaty, SEC  will issue relevant rules and
financial institutions have not been effective in   recommendations on appropriate changes to legislation    regulations which do not require changes to the
monitoring  corporate  management  performance.   and regulations to improve the appointment process of   legislation. By May 31, 1999 MOC will submit to the
Minority shareholders have not played an active role   directors, ensure protection of minority shareholder    Cabinet for its approval necessary changes to the
as monitors of corporate performance.              rights, increase accountability and liability of officers   Public Company Act.
Objectives   and   Programs:   Strengthen  the    and diretors, and impose sanctions in the case of   By April 15, 1999 SET  will have revised the
effectiveness and monitoring  role of boards of               ty.                                      guidelines on the code of best practice for listed
directors and enhance shareholder rights.                                                              company  directors  to  a  level  consistent with
international best practices, and will propose an
appropriate deadline for the disclosure of compliance
or non-compliance  with  such  guidelines to  be
mandatory under the SET's disclosure requirements.
Progress/Status: The Cabinet has approved in principle the framework for changes to the PCA. SET has revised guidelines on Code of Best Practice for directors of listed
companies.
5. Rationalize the regulatoryframeworkfor enforcement of laws and regulationsfor public companies
Agencies: SET - Vicharat Vichit-Vadakarn, SEC - Prasarn Trairatvorakul, MoC
Issue: SEC  and SET  responsibilities overlap in    SEC has completed the review  of the roles and
enforcement of laws and regulations.               responsibilities of SET, SEC, MOC and MOF in
enforcing laws and regulations related to public
Objectives and Programs: Streamline and strengthen    companies by SEC and submitted its recommendations
the   framework  for enforcement of laws  and    on such roles and responsibilities to the respective
regulations.                                       agencies for adoption.
Progress/Status: Operational guidelines for delineation of duties among MOC, SEC, and SET in supervising PCA has been put into effect.



49
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETrER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. PRIVATIZATION
1. RtegulatoryFramework Legislationfor Privatizationl
Issue: Regulatory institutions in the water, telecom,                                                   The Government will establish independent regulatory
energy and transportation sectors are required pursuant                                                  bodies for the  infrastructure  sectors to  protect
to privatization.                                                                                       consumer interests and facilitate competition. Cabinet
Objectives and Program:  To protect consumer                                                            will approve regulatory legislation for the water and
interests and encourage competition, regulatory bodies                                                  energy sectors.  The Government will submit to
will be established  to oversee activities in the                                                       Parliament for its approval regulatory legislation for
infrastructure  sectors,  including  water,  energy,                                                    the telecommunications sector.
telecommunications   and   transportation.   Such
regulatory bodies will be based on the principle of
independence, providing for transparent and non-
political  procedures  for  selecting  and  funding
regulators, as well as a process of appeals.
Progress/Status:
- Progress satisfactory for telecommunications, energy and transport. Regulatory authorities are expected to be set up in telecomm (NTC Act has been passed and the
telecomm   law has been endorsed by the cabinet); The energy law is near completion and the final studies for 5 transport regulatory bodies have been commissioned.)
There has been no progress in the water sector. The water sector restructuring study has been delayed and the consultants to study and propose the regulatory structure for
the water sector are now in the process of being hired.
- Regulatory training still remains an issue. No clear progress on setting up of training institute.
2. Organizational Structurefor Privatization; Institutional Capacity Building
Issue: The Government requires a clear, transparent,                                                     The Government will have created  an  effective
and  strengthened  organizational  structure  with                                                       organizational  structure  for   overseeing   and
technical  expertise  and  sufficient  staffing  at                                                     implementing  privatization  in  each  sector. The
appropriate levels to implement its Master Plan for                                                      Government will appoint members  of standing
State Enterprise Reform effectively.                                                                     committees at the State Enterprise Policy Commission
Objectives and Program: Strengthen the capacity of                                                       with the responsibility to oversee and implement
the State Enterprise Policy Commission and the Office                                                    privatization  in  each  sector,  including  water,
of State Enterprises at the Ministry of Finance by                                                       transportation, telecommunications and enterprises in
establishing a sub-committee structure in each sector                                                    other sectors.
to oversee the implementation of corporatization and
privatization strategies at individual enterprises.



50
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD              |          LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Progress / Status:
- The standing committees structure has been set up for telecomm and transport. In energy NEPCO is responsible for overseeing the privatization strategy. Water sub-
committee needs to be formed. It is expected that once the water sector restructuring study is completed, a sub-committee would be formed by SEPC.
- The Office of State Enterprise needs to be strengthened. Capacity building necessary if OSE is to play a key role in reviewing corporatization plans by SOEs and in managing
the corporatized SOE portfolio.
3. Corporatization Law
Issue: Privatization of individual public enterprises    The Corporatization Law has been approved by the
that have not been incorporated usually requires    Lower House and is being considered by the Senate.
complex case-by-case legal approvals that lead to
delays.
Objective: A Corporatization Law would establish a
clear procedure for initiating the reform, and eventual
privatization,  of  state-owned  enterprises.  The
Corporatization Law allows state-owned enterprises to
be converted into corporate entities and wholly or
partially divested to private owners. It also establishes
a streamlined committee structure under the Prime
Ministers' Office and coordinated by the Office of
State Enterprises in the Ministry of Finance to oversee
corporatization  and  privatization  of  individual
enterprises in different sectors.
Progress/ Status : The Corporatization law has been enacted in December 2000 . The members of SECPC are being appointed to over see the corporatization of SOEs



51
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
3. COMPETITION POLICY AND INVESTMENT INCENTIVES -
1. Competition policy
Issue: Rapid changes are taking place in financial and                                                  Complete program  of institutional development to
real sectors as a result of the crisis and new industry                                                  match the changes in the competition legislation.
structures are likely to emerge as the economy
recovers. New  legislation to replace the 1979 Act
governing price fixing and anti-competitive practices
passed first reading in Parliament on October 14. The
new legislation reflects modern competition policies.
However, the institutional capacity to enforce the
legislation will need to be further strengthened to make
legislation fully effective.
Objectives and Programs: Ensure the establishment
of a solid legislative franework and an enhanced
institutional capacity to administer it.
Progress/Status: An independent, free of conflict of interest, competition policy authority, the Trade Competition Commission (TCC), was established, and 15 commission
members were appointed.
The Department of Internal Trade (DIT) has completed the draft of the competition regulations to govern mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances,
prohibition of business collusion, and administrative power.
2. Investment Incentives.
Issue: Tax incentives have played an important role in                                                   By July 1, 1999 the BOI shall review the results of the
Thailand's investment promotion system for more than                                                     FIAS study on investment incentives offered under the
three decades.  In response to the changing socio-                                                       BOI. The BOI will draft a plan for rationalizing
economic environment, the incentive scheme and the                                                       Thailand's incentive scheme and the role of the BOI.
role of the BOI need to be assessed by also taking into
account the incentive programs offered by other
countries as well as Thailand overall tax regime.
Objectives and Programs: Rationalize Thailand's
incentive scheme and enhance the role of the BOI in a
broader context encompassing  work  other than
incentive provision.
Progress/Status: BOI has reviewed the FIAS study results and has drafted a rationalization plan which will be submitted to the BOI Board for review at the end of March, 2000.



52
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
V. POVERTY AND SOCIAL PROTECTION -
1. IMPROVE STRATEGIC DESIGN AND CO-ORDINATION OF SOCIAL POLICY
1. Improve the coordination of socialpolicy
Issue: A coherent social policy framework requires    The Borrower has appointed the                    By May 31, 1999 an existing agency or mechanism
coordination across multiple core and line ministries.  Council of Social Ministers (National           reporting to the Cabinet as well as to the Council of
Social  Ministers  (the  National  Social  Policy
Objectives and Program: Strengthen institutional    Social Policy Committee), under the                 Committee) shall be assigned to develop an action plan
framework for high-level integration of the social    direct leadership of the Prime                    to design social protection.
Minister, to develop and implement a                The following measures to strengthen the technical
coherent social policy, with NESDB                  capacity of NESDB to perform the social protection
serving as the secretariat for said                 secretariat function shall be inplemented: (a) assign a
Council.                                            strong  and  effective  management team  for the
technical secretariat;  (b) assign personnel with
expertise in economic analysis of social policy to staff
the technical secretariat; (c) prepare a focused and
time-bound workplan to develop concrete options for
social policy reform; and (d) identify and implement
advanced staff training in critical areas.
Progress/Status: On August 5, 1999, the Social Policy Coordination and Monitoring Committee was established under the direct leadership of Deputy Prime Minister Pichai
Rathakul, with the NESDB serving as the secretariat.
On March 15, 2000, a framework for social protection strategy was submitted to the policy Coordination and Monitoring Committee for approval to set up an action plan to
design social protection policy for the country I Khun Sun from MOF has provided the document to usi..



53
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                             BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Improve the design of the old-age pension andfamily allowances system
Issue:                                            The Borrower has established, through  internal    By April 30, 1999 the high level task force will begin a
(a) The Social Security Act (SSA), as presently  administrative decisions, revised contribution rates to    process of consultations of the proposals in a tri-partite
enacted, has several flaws in terms of equity,  the old-age fund and the family allowances fund of   setting (labor, industry, and Government). Based on
efficiency, and fiscal sustainability, and imposes a  the Social Security Office: (a) for the old-age fund,   these  consultations  and  the  consultants' report
severe burden on employers and employees in the  1% each from the employers and from the employees    scheduled to be completed in October 1999, the task
present economic context.                        for a period of 2 years; and (b) for the family   force will submit to the Cabinet its recommendations.
(b)  Savings-based  alternatives  to  pay-as-you-go  allowances fund, 1% from the Government.          By December 31, 1999, the approval of the Cabinet
financing of social security need to be developed to  The Borrower has appointed a high-level task force with    will be sought for an integrated old-age pension
minimize adverse labor market incentives and promote  membership from MOF, SEC, MOI., SSO and DPW to   system, including the development of a multi-pillar
capital market development.                       evaluate the existing social security system, and develop    system.
Objectives and Program:                           options for implementing an improved and integrated    On the basis of the Cabinet approval, a detailed action
Improve  the  equity,  efficiency,  and  financial  pension system.                                    plan to reform the SSO old-age and family allowances
sustainability of the existing old-age pension and                                                     schemes with a view to making them more equitable,
family allowances systems, and reduce the burden of                                                    efficient and financially sustainable will be announced.
employers and employees during the crisis.
Progress/Status: The Social Security Act was amended in 1999 to introduce new contribution rates.
On February 24, 1998, the Cabinet created a central Govemment Committee to coordinate and administer an integrated social security, pension, and provident funds system.
Ministry of Finance is reviewing recommendations of the Steering Committee (comprising of Old Age Pension Fund staffs) based on the ADB-funded grant study aimed at
improving the Government Pension Fund and Provident Fund System.
2. PROTECTING THE POOR
1. Increase public expenditures for protecting the poor
Issue: Fiscal stimulus provides room for expanding
public expenditure on antipoverty programs
Objectives and program: Antipoverty expenditures
should  be  quick-disbursing  and  administratively
simple to implement



54
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                              BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Expand provision of public workfare programs
Issue: The crisis has increased unemployment and    The Borrower has: (a) adopted and made public
underemployment                                     revised criteria for its public workfare programs
Objectives and Program:  .I'o provide temporary    under the enhanced public expenditures program
Objectives and Program: 'lo provide temporary   including: (i) unskilled labor intensity of at least
employment to those seeking work at low wages.      30%  on average; (ii) remuneration for unskilled
labor set close to applicable rates in rural areas;
and (iii) poverty incidence will be a key criterion
for the geographic distribution of workfare budget;
and  (b) prepared  plans  for monitoring  and
evaluation of said workfare programs.
Progress/Status: The Cabinet appointed the budget director of the Bureau of Budget to be responsible for monitoring the execution of the additional expenditures.
Preliminary evaluations suggest that over 30% of resources concentrated on unskilled workers. Nonetheless, the programs have been less successful in targeting the poor [see
'1'RIS Report ATTACHED].. In the case of decentralized programs such as those administered by the Ministry of Interior, the same amount of resources were allocated to each
local community irrespectively of population and poverty incidence. The effectiveness of centralized programs' attempts to target the poor through alternative criteria based
on social indicators was affected by data constraints. The TRIS company was hired to monitor and evaluate workfare programs. (Sec more details in attachment)
3. Expand means-tested cash and in-kind transfer programs
Issue: The crisis has hurt vulnerable groups such as    Under the enhanced public expenditures program,
the elderly poor and poor families with children.   the Borrower has adopted a policy of increased
Objectives and Program, To protect the well-being    coverage for (i) cash transfer programs for needy
Objectives and Program: To protect thc well-being    families and poor elderly, and (ii) the in-kind
of vulnerable groups with adequate and assured    transfer programs.
income support.
|Progress/Status: 400,000 poor elderly were are receiving 3l300/month, compared to Bt200/month given earlier. However, the time required to process a transfer can take up to
six months.



55
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                            BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
3. SOCIAL PROTECTION FOR WORKERS
1. Strengthen compliance with severance pay provisions
Issue:  Due to liquidity constraints some firms are                                                   The Borrower will develop a savings-based system for
unable to meet severance payments obligations to laid                                                 workers not covered by the Social Security System,
off workers.                                                                                          pursuant to the Labor Protection Act of 1998.
Objectives and Program: Protect living standards of                                                   By April 30, 1999 the Borrower will have established
unemployed workers.                                                                                   an employee welfare fund to partially finance unpaid
severance claims.
Progress/Status: There has been no progress in terms of the savings-based system for workers not covered by the Social Security given that under Article 163 of the labor
Protection Act of 1998, employer and employee are allowed not to increase their contributions. 400,000 poor elderly were are receiving Bt300/month, compared to Bt200/month
given earlier. However, the time required to process a transfer can take up to six months. However, the employee welfare fund has been implemented.
2. Develop cost-effective training and employment servicesfor unemployed
Issue: International experience shows that active labor   The borrower has established a task force with
market programs may not be cost-effective          representation  from   workers,  employers  and
Objectives  and  Program:  Improve   the   cost-   govemment to design, target, and evaluate cost-
Objectives  and  Program:  Improve  the  cost-   effective  training  and  employment services forl
effectiveness of training and employment services for   unemployed workers.                                                                            l
unemployed workers.                                                                                                                                    l
Progress/Status: The existing National Committee on Lab or Improvement and Training Coordination is responsible for the design of cost-effective training programs and
employment service.
4. PROTECTING THE ELDERLY
1. Strengthen voluntary providentfunds for private enployees
Issue: The existing provident funds are unsupervised                                                  The high-level task force set up to review the Social
and unregulated. They offer lump sum refunds when                                                     Security System shall develop robust supervision and
employees leave firms, with no portability between                                                    regulatory structure for voluntary provident funds and
jobs and no annuities.                                                                                to improve their portability across firms.
Objectives and Program: Strengthen the supervision
and regulatory structure of voluntary provident funds.
Progress/Status: No progress



56
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                             BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LErrER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Strengthen existing administrative structure in SSO
Agency: Social Security Office
Issue:  The integrity of the SSO database is not   The SSO database has been cleaned to ensure data
adequate to support efficient administration of existing    integrity by (a) removing excess records; (b) correcting
SSO benefits, or extension thereof;                misrecording of contribution  collections; and (c)
Objectives and Program: Verify existing data records    attaching the 13 digit identifier to each record.
in SSO to ensure a clean database before instituting
additional benefit payments;
Progress/Status: Some progress has been made. Changes have been introduced to use a single national personal identification and to update data formats to support a Social
Security identification number of 13 digits consistent with the identification card.
5. IMPROVE THE INFORMATION BASE FOR MONITORING
Issue: The crisis has highlighted the need for timely    The Borrower has provided adequate resources to:
and policy relevant information flows to improve the
speed and quality of public policy response so as to   (a) enable the carrying out in 1999 of a survey toa
mitigate the hardship among the poor, and to improve    monitor poverty based on a component of the SES, andl
mgthe monitoringo p ams           implmne          accelerate turnaround time to 3 months for updating
the monitoring of programs implemented.             th  nulpvrymp
the annual poverty map;l
Objectives and  Programs: Enhance the policy    (b Increase frequency of LFS to 4 rounds/year,
relevance of the existing household and income survey    implement appropriate questionnaire improvements
and labor force surveys.                           and seasonal adjustments, and accelerate analysis
turnaround to 3 months.
Progress/Status: Progress has been substantial. The results of the 1999 SES will be published in May 2000. Also, the frequency of the Labor Survey was increased to 4
rounds/year. The results of the November 1999 round have been published.



