Report No. PID8470
Project Name                     Thailand-Economic and Financial(*)
Adjustment Loan II
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Economic/Financial Management
Project ID                       TH-PE-58536
Borrower(s)                      Kingdom of Thailand
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Rama 6 Road
Bangkok 10400, Thailand
Tel. (66-2) 273-9021
Environment Category             C
Date this PID Prepared           November 10, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           December 1998
Projected Board Date             February 1999
Background:
The Government's stabilization and structural reform efforts have borne
mixed fruit in the presence of a regional depression and a volatile
international environment. While the exchange rate has stabilized and some
interest rates have declined sharply, economic recovery has still not taken
root. The economy remains in recession, financial institutions still have
substantial non-performing loans, the highly leveraged corporate sector is
mired in balance sheet losses, and Thailand's workforce is experiencing a
large reduction in earnings. The authorities commitment to reform is
impressive given the international and domestic difficulties. Resolution of
closed institutions is moving forward, a credible institutional framework for
voluntary restructuring is in place, and incentives to motivate corporate
workouts are being instituted. The competitive foundations of the economy
are being strengthened via a comprehensive privatization strategy, and the
fiscal stance has been adjusted to accommodate the large costs of financial
and corporate restructuring and increased public expenditures to stimulate
domestic demand and protect the vulnerable.
The proposed adjustment operation is part of the Bank's contribution to
the $17.2 billion pledge made in Tokyo (August 1997) by the international
community in response to Thailand's economic and financial crisis. The
Bank's adjustment operations began with the $350 million Finance Companies
Restructuring Loan (FCRL) approved by the Board in December 1997. The loan
supported the orderly resolution of troubled finance companies and helped
strengthen the supervisory and regulatory framework for the remainder.
Together with the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) policy framework for
commercial banks, the loan committed the Government to establishing resilient
financial institutions strong enough to prevent similar crises in the future.
The second adjustment operation, $400 million Economic and Financial
Adjustment Loan (EFAL) was approved by he board in July 1998. It aimed to
restore growth by deepening structural reform in the financial sector and



facilitating corporate revival.
Project Objectives:
The objectives of the proposed loan are to support and deepen the
Government's reform of the micro-economic foundations of the economy and to
provide a cushion for a fiscal stimulus, while protecting the vulnerable and
the poor. The loan is anchored in the Bank's ongoing multi-faceted technical
assistance program and strongly complements the macroeconomic stabilization
package agreed by the Government with the IMF.
Project Description
The proposed loan would provide balance of payments assistance to the
Kingdom of Thailand in implementing a program for economic recovery.
Building on the earlier two adjustment operations, the proposed loan supports
government efforts toward recovery in five areas: (i) macroeconomic and
fiscal expansion--- increasing public expenditures in order to stimulate
aggregate demand with special attention to social protection; (ii) financial
sector restructuring --- managing problem institutions, enhancing the
regulatory and supervisory regime, and completing the last auction of closed
finance company assets; (iii) corporate restructuring --- strengthening the
legal framework, strengthening the enabling environment, speeding the
restructuring process; (iv) competitiveness --- improving and upgrading
financial accountability and corporate governance, implementing a
privatization program, increasing investment incentives, strengthening
competition policy; and (vi) comprehensive social protection program---
improving the strategic design and coordination of social policy, and
protecting the poor (including labor market reform, unemployment insurance,
pension reform, improved targeting of poverty programs).
Project Financing
A single tranche loan of $400 million is proposed to be made available
upon loan effectiveness. The anticipated closing date of the loan would be
August 31, 1999.
Project Implementation
The Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Thailand will be responsible
for monitoring the implementation of the program with the help of the Letter
of Development Policy, through regular reviews, as well as in the context of
the preparation and supervision of other projects. The Ministry of Finance
and the Bank of Thailand will prepare a final report on the progress of the
program within six months after the closing date of the loan, and submit this
report to the Bank.
Project Benefits
The proposed loan will support the program of structural reforms in the
financial and real sectors, building on reform efforts begun under FCRL and
EFAL 1. Benefits include: deepening of reforms in the financial sector; a
comprehensive social protection program (including pension reform, better
targeting of poverty programs, etc.); speeding up corporate debt
restructuring; improving financial accountability and corporate governance;
-2 -



and expanding fiscal expenditures to stimulate aggregate demand and allow for
the resumption of economic growth (as elaborated upon above). These reforms
to be supported by the proposed loan will restore confidence and bring
investors back to Thailand, and will help strengthen and modernize the
business environment in Thailand to support future growth. At the same time,
it will minimize the impact of the crisis and structural adjustment on the
most vulnerable segments of the society, by strengthening social programs.
Project Risks
One risk is that a prolonged recession could dampen the enthusiasm for
further reforms. Another risk is that growing unemployment could cause
social unrest. Finally, there is the risk that the Government would
prematurely declare victory and abandon reforms. However, all indications
suggest that these risks are small. Government authorities are aware of the
risk of declaring victory prematurely and are committed to seeing the reform
process through to the end. Moreover, the Government is concerned about the
adverse impacts of the crisis on vulnerable segments of the population, and
is actively working to shield these vulnerable groups of people.
Environmental Aspects
In accordance with Bank guidelines, the proposed operation has been
placed in Category C and will not require an environmental assessment.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel. (202) 458-5454
Fax (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Ejaz Syed Ghani
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 473-4819
Fax: (202) 522-1557
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 10, 1999.
- 3 -



