Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: P 7271-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$600 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
March25, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 1999)
Currency Unit = Baht (B)
US$1.00 = B 36.60
B 1.00 = US$0.0273
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    -        Asian Development Bank
AMC      -      Asset Management Corporation
BIBF   -        Bangkok International Banking Facilities
BAAC   -        Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
BOT    -        Bank of Thailand
BRO    -        Business Restructuring Office
CCC    -        Civil and Commercial Code
CCP    -        Civil and Commercial Procedures
CDRAC           Corporate Debt Restructuring Advisory Committee
CGD    -        Comptroller General's Department
DIA     -       Deposit Insurance Agency
EGAT   -        Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EGCO   -        Electricity Generating Co;mpany
EXIM   -        Thai Export-Import Bank
FC      -       Finance Company
FI     -       Financial Institution
FIDF    -       Financial Institutions Development Fund
FMRP   -        Financial Market Reform Program
FRA    -        Financial Sector Restructuring Authority
FSIA    -       Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
GSB    -        Government Savings Bank
ICAAT  -        Institute of Certified Accountants and Auditors
IFCT    -       Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
IIAT    -       Institute of Internal Auditors of Thailand
JTI       -     Judicial Training Institute
KTB       -     Krung Thai Bank
KTT             Krungthai Thanakit Public Co., Ltd.
MOC       -     Ministry of Commerce
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MOU       -     Memorandum of Understanding
NESDB  -        National Economic and Social Development Board
NPL       -     Non-performing Loan
PLMO   -        Property Loan Management Organization
SCL       -     Single Currency Loan
SEC       -     Securities and Exchange Commission
SEPC     -      State Enterprise Policy Commission
SES      -      Socioeconomic Survey
SET     -       Stock Exchange of Thailand
SFI      -      Specialized Financial Institution
SIP      -      Social Investment Project
SIFC     -      Small Industry Finance Corporation
SSO       -     Social Security Office
TBA       -     Thai Bankers Association
KINGDOM OF THAILAND - FISCAL YEAR: October I - September 30
Vice President:             Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:           Jayasankar Shivakumar, EACTF
Acting Sector Manager:      R. Kyle Peters, Jr. EASPR
Task Manager:_             Ijaz Nabi, Lead Economist, EASPR



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION .............1
2. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE                               .2
A. RECENT MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                     .2
B. EcoNoMic PROSPECTS AND POLICY STANCE FOR 1999             .3
3. THE STRATEGY FOR ECONOMIC REVIVAL                           .8
A. STRENGTHENING THE MICROECONOMIC FOUNDATIONS               .8
A. 1. Financial Sector Restructuring                 .8
A. 2 Corporate Debt Restructuring .16
A.. 3 Competitiveness .25
B. FISCAL STIMULUS AND SOCIAL PROTECTION .28
4. BANK GROUP STRATEGY .34
A. THE BANK34
B. IFC.37
C. COORDINATION WITH IMF .37
D. COOPERATION WITH ADB .37
5. THE PROPOSED LOAN .39
A. LoAN SIZE AND FEATURES .39
B. CONDITIONS FOR BOARD PRESEN3TATION. .39
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS .40
6. RECOMMENDATION .42
The task team includes Ijaz Nabi (Task Manager) William Mako, (PSDPS); Pedro Alba (PRMEP);
Behdad Nowroozi (EAPCO); Eric Haythorne (LEGPS), Tom Rose, Michel Cardona (SFO); Magdi Amin
(IADDR); Hoi-Chan Nguyen (LEGEA); Charu Vasil (fEACTQ); Stefan Koeberle (EASPR); Lars
Sondergaard (EACTF), Steen Byskov, Joan Grigsby, Benu Bidani, Thang-Long Ton (EASPR); Jeff
Hammer (DECRG); Ron Hood (PSDBE); Nicholas Prescott (EASHN) and K Subbarao (PRMPO).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLES
Table 1: Thailand: Contribution To GDP Growth By Demand Component ............ 6
Table 2:  Thailand: the Stance of Fiscal Policy ..............................................  7
Table 3:  Thailand: Progress in Restructuring Reported to the Bank of Thailand ...... 21
Table 4:  Thailand: Overview  of Key Financial Sector Institutions ...................... 43
Table 5:  Thailand: Macroeconomic Framework ............................................ 44
Table 6:  Thailand: Program  Monitoring, July 31, 1997-January 12, 1999 .............. 45
Table 7:  Thailand: Relations with the World Bank Group ................................. 46
Table 8:  Thailand: Relations with the Asian Development Bank ......................... 47
Table 9:  Thailand: Interest Coverage Ratios of Nonfinancial
Private Corporations, 1995-97 ...................................................... 47
Table 10: Thailand: Public Enterprises and Nonfinancial
Public Sector Operations .......................................................               48
Table 11: Thailand: Operations of State Enterprises ..................                ...................... 48
Table 12: Thailand: State Enterprise Capital Expenditure and Financing ................. 49
Table 13: Thailand: General Government Fiscal Operations, 1996/97-1998/99 ......... 50
Table 14: Thailand: Existing Official Financing Package ................................... 51
Table 15: Thailand: Balance of Payments and Financing Needs, 1996-99 ............... 52
Table 16: Thailand: Monetary Program, 1997-99 ............................................ 53
SCHEDULES AND ANNEXES
Schedule 1: Letter of Development Policy .................................... ............... 54
Schedule 2: Policy Matrix ....................................................... 63
Annex 1:  Actions Taken on Privatization and Public Enterprise Refom .80
Annex 2: Status of the Corporate Sector .81
Annex 3:  Status of Bank Group Operations in Thailand .83
Annex 4:  Statement of IFC's Committed & Disbursed Portfolio .84
Annex 5: Thailand At A Glance .85
CHARTS
Financial Sector Restructuring .................................                                            12
Strengthening Business Environrent .................................                                       17
Macroeconomic Program  &  Social Protection .................................                              29



KINGDOM OF THAILAND
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:        Kingdom of Thailand.
Amount and       US$600 million-Single Currency Loan (SCL) in US Dollars, with a 15-year
terms:           maturity, including a 3-year grace period, at the Bank's standard fixed US Dollar
SCL interest rate.
Description:     The proposed loan is part of a two-year program of structural adjustment of the
economy supported by four single-tranche balance of payments support loans. The
first loan in the series, the Finance Companies Restructuring Loan (FCRL), was
approved by the Board in December 1997 and supported measures toward
resolution of the suspended finance companies and committed the Government to a
comprehensive reform of the financial sector over the next two years. The second
loan, Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan I (EFAL I) further deepened
restructuring of the financial sector and supported measures to strengthen the
corporate sector. The proposed second Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan
(EFAL II) tracks reform in the financial and corporate sectors, seeks to strengthen
the competitive foundations of the economy and supports the Government's
proposed fiscal stimulus, especially programs that shore up social protection.
The flexible adjustment lending program for Thailand allows a close tracking of the
current phase of the economic crisis and commits the Government to remedial
measures, while remaining focused on the needed fundamental restructuring of the
economy. The program is being coordinated with IMF, ADB and bilateral lenders.
The Government has taken a number of actions in fulfillment of the loan conditions
which include social protection, a fiscal stimulus, further strengthening the
enabling environment for corporate restructuring, consolidation of financial sector
reform, reform of the legal regime for insolvency and secured lending, corporate
governance and financial disclosure, and privatization. The specific actions are
listed in the Policy Matrix (Schedule 2).



Benefits and risks: The program of actions supported by this loan will be beneficial both in the short
and the long term. In the short term, the fiscal stimulus supported by the loan will
strengthen aggregate demand, provide employment opportunities and substantially
bolster social protection. This will help mitigate the distributional consequences of
the ongoing crisis, and will provide breathing space to a government committed to
structural reform. The measures to facilitate corporate debt workouts will also
have short term benefits of alleviating the credit crunch, strengthening of
economic activity and a reduction in non-perforning loans of financial institutions.
The medium term benefits include the consolidation of the structural reform
program that began with the Finance Companies Restructuring Loan and deepened
with the first Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan. The loan program will
strengthen the legal, institutional and incentive framework for decision-making by
financial institutions and corporates. The social protection measures supported by
this loan include the development of a medium term strategy to respond quickly to
the distributional and poverty consequences of the crisis.
The greatest risk to the program lies in the potential to misread the current
strengthening of the stock market and the exchange rate as signs of enduring
recovery. Although the market is less pessimistic now than it was six months ago,
capital inflows are still small relative to the recapitalization needs. Non-financial
corporations continue to experience difficulty in accessing credit. The wrong
response to the market's "wait and see" attitude would be to declare victory
prematurely and leave unfinished the reform of financial institutions. This might
well start another round of confidence loss. In particular, slow progress in
reforming the legal and institutional framework for bankruptcy and foreclosure
would reflect on asset prices and the pace of corporate workouts. Another risk lies
in heavy-handed intervention in the ongoing restructuring of financial institutions
or corporations that discourages market-led workouts and results in a large fiscal
cost. Among the external risks, further instability due to regional contagion now
seems less likely, although external demand remains anemic because of the
slowdown in Japan. The slowdown in China's exports and its implications for that
country's currency policy entails another set of risks. A prolonged slowdown of
economic activity and the resulting unemployment and income loss would lead to
social unrest and political instability, which would put at risk the reform program.
Fortunately, recent economic developments suggest that the risks outlined above
are small. The economic leadership is aware of the risk of declaring victory
prematurely and is managing expectations accordingly. The reform agenda, with a
special emphasis on protection of the vulnerable, remains a top priority and
progress to date is satisfactory. The Government is avoiding quick-fix remedies
and is committed to modernizing the legal and corporate governance framework for
strengthening the overall environment for doing business in Thailand.
Poverty Category:  NA
Estimated        The loan would be disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness.
Disbursements:
Project ID Number: TH-PE- 58536



KINGDOM OF THAILAND
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government's stabilization and structural reform efforts are beginning to bear fruit.
The exchange rate has stabilized and some interest rates have declined sharply but, economic
recovery is still anemic due to a regional depression and a volatile international environment.
Financial institutions have substantial non-performing loans, the highly leveraged corporate
sector is mired in balance sheet losses and Thailand's workforce is experiencing large scale
reductions in earnings.
1.2   The authorities' commitment to reform is imnpressive given the international and domestic
difficulties. In the financial sector, resolution of closed institutions is moving forward as is
rebuilding financial institutions' capacity to lend. In the corporate sector, a credible institutional
framework for voluntary restructuring is in place and incentives to motivate workouts are being
instituted.  The competitive foundations of the economy are being strengthened via a
comprehensive privatization strategy. The fiscal stance has been adjusted to accommodate the
large costs of financial and corporate restructuring and increased public expenditures to stimulate
domestic demand and protect the vulnerable.
1.3   The proposed loan, supporting authorities' response to the economic crisis, is the third in
a series of four adjustment operations in the Thailand Country Assistance Strategy approved by
the Board in July 1998. It supports and deepens Government's reform of the micro-economic
foundations of the economy and also provides cushion for a fiscal stimulus while protecting the
vulnerable and the poor. The loan is anchored in the Bank's ongoing multi-faceted technical
assistance.
1.4   The proposed loan is part of the Bank's contribution to the US$17.2 billion pledge made
at Tokyo by the international community in response to Thailand's economic and financial crisis.
The Bank's adjustment operations began with the Finance Companies Restructuring Loan ($350
million) approved by the Board in December 1997. The loan supported the orderly resolution of
troubled finance companies and helped strengthen supervision and the regulatory framework for
the remainder. Together with the International Monetary Fund's policy framework for
commercial banks, the loan committed the Government to establishing resilient financial
institutions strong enough to prevent similar crises in the future. The second adjustment
operation, Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan, approved by the Board in July 1998 aimed
to restore growth by deepening structural reform in the financial sector and facilitating corporate
revival.



-2 -
2. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
A. RECENT MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
2.1   Thailand's economy was in deep recession in 1998.  GDP is estimated to have
contracted by 8 percent in 1998 as a result of a collapse in domestic demand combined with
unfavorable external conditions. Gross investment declined by about one-third and consumption
by 13 percent in 1998. Overall, the contribution of domestic absorption to GDP growth was in
the order of negative 21 percent which was only partially compensated by a positive 13 percent
contribution resulting from the sharp turnaround in the current account of the balance of
payments. The social dimensions of the crisis are deepening and unemployment has risen to 3.4
percent of the workforce in August 1998 from 0.9 percent in August 1997, while real wages have
declined between 12 and 24 percent depending on the region in the period just between August
1997 and February 1998. Over-indebted and unable to access credit, many corporations remain
under severe financial stress and are not able to meet their debt obligations as business conditions
have remained weak. Despite progress in financial restructuring, the remaining financial
institutions are still awaiting private led recapitalization and their loan portfolio has continued to
deteriorate.
2.2   Recovery has been hampered in 1998 by unfavorable international conditions that
have increased pressure on the balance of payments. Among the most important of these
events is the continued recession in Japan and the sharp decline of international prices for many
Thai exports. The decline in import demand in Japan, a major market for Thai exports, has
reduced export growth potential, as have demand conditions in other East Asian partners.' With
regard to export prices, the average unit value in terms of US dollars during the first nine months
of 1998 has declined by 14.7 percent as compared to the same period last year. This decline has
more than offset export volume growth, and in US Dollars the cumulative value of exports fell
by 5.7 percent during this same time period as compared to 1997. Overall, despite a drop in
import prices, Thailand suffered a large decline in its terms of trade throughout 1998, further
depressing real income. 2
2.3   External confidence, while strengthening recently and bringing some relief to the
balance of payments and domestic fmancial markets, has been volatile during much of
1998. Confidence has been affected by general concerns regarding emerging markets, as well as
conditions specific to Thailand. Country risk, as measured by the spread of ten year sovereign
Yankee bond over comparable US debt instruments, increased sharply between March and
August 1998 from 254 basis points to 760 basis points, reflecting in part worsening conditions in
East Asia, the crisis in Russia, and concerns about Latin America. Spreads have since declined
to 255 basis points in mid-February 1999. While it is still early, Thai spreads have not been
affected significantly by the recent devaluation in Brazil.
In October 1998, Japan's share in Thai exports was 14 percent.
2  Preliminary exports numbers for November 1998, show that export prices are stabilizing but growth in volume
terms has come to a halt.



- 3 -
2.4   Reflecting these external and domestic conditions, the 1998 outcome for Thailand's
external account are a large current account surplus (currently estimated at 11 percent of
GDP) offsetting a capital account deficit, and stability in gross international reserves.
Given the weakness in export prices, the current account surplus for 1998 (estimated by the IMF
at US$14 billion) was driven by the collapse in import volumes and prices, 'in turn a result of
depressed domestic demand conditions and expenditure switching. Net capital outflows during
1998, mainly reflecting short-term capital outflows and the settlement of forward obligations of
the BOT, were in the order of US$17-18 billion. The international financial assistance package
will cover the difference and gross reserves are expected to remain broadly stable at US$29-30
billion. However, this implies a very large improvement in net international reserves given the
sharp decline in BOT's forward obligations.
2.5   There are signs that the economy has begun to bottom-out during the fourth
quarter of 1998 as Government policies begin to bear fruit. Production in the manufacturing
sector has stabilized somewhat in recent months and has even expanded in some sectors in
December 1998.  On the demand side, available numbers on retail sales also suggest
stabilization. Demand and supply indicators are discussed more thoroughly in Box 1. With
regard to financial variables, the exchange rate was broadly stable in the 41-42 Baht/Dollar range
from May to September, and, reflecting the strengthening overall BOP position, has since
appreciated to 36-38 at the end of 1998 and early 1999. As confidence in the Baht improved and
country risk declined in recent months, money market interest rates have been falling rapidly
since mid-1998, from 18-19 percent in June 1998 to around 3-4 percent in January 1999.
Lending rates have been slower to decline but have also fallen considerably, from 15.4 percent in
March 1997 to 11-12 percent in January 1999. These signs of recovery and stronger investor
confidence are, however, very fragile and whether they will strengthen depend on continued
speedy and resolute implementation of the recovery program.
B. ECONOMIC PROSPECTS AND POLICY STANCE FOR 1999
2.6   While progress on financial and corporate restructuring is the linchpin of the
program, macroeconomic policy remains essential to counteract the collapse in domestic
demand and maintain exchange rate stability. Macroeconomic policy faces difficult
challenges to restore growth and reduce the poverty impact of the crisis:
* First, while the external sector has been a key source of growth in the past, it is unlikely
to be able to play the same role during the current crisis. In 1999, barring a major
improvement in the terms of trade, the external sector's contribution to growth is
expected to be negative since further increases in the current account surplus are not
probable. Imports are likely to pick-up as domestic demand recovers, and stocks are re-
built. Export demand is expected to remain weak given the protracted nature of the crisis
in East Asia and its spread to other emerging markets, and increased competition from
Asian and Latin American competitors. Despite a shift in markets from ASEAN to
Europe and the USA during 1998, recent numbers on export volumes are discouraging:
year on year, export volumes declined slightly in October and November.



Second, the ability of the authorities to use monetary policy to stimulate domestic demand
is constrained by the weaknesses in the financial system. With the improvement in
investor confidence and declines in country, devaluation and other macro risks, the
authorities have successfully engineered nominal exchange rate stability and a decrease in
short-term repurchase rates to below their pre-crisis level. I As mentioned above, lending
rates have also declined. However, the transmission channels for monetary policy are not
operating as expected since stress in the financial system has reduced the supply of bank
credit to the private sector, which has been flat over the last six months. The major
bottleneck to renewed credit expansion has been the slow progress on corporate
restructuring and bank recapitalization.
* And third, while fiscal policy clearly needs to be geared to providing a large stimulus to
demand and mitigating the poverty impact of the crisis, the ability to do so is constrained
in several ways. As discussed below, the main constraints are institutional and other
short-term  capacity constraints to raising expenditure.  Among these institutional
constraints is that much of the fiscal stimulus was to be foreign financed to avoid
protracted discussions in Parliament. Foreign financing, however, was delayed as a result
of slow progress on bankruptcy law reform. Some concerns have also been raised
regarding the sustainability of fiscal policy as a result of the growing costs of financial
sector restructuring.
2.7    Prospects for 1999, while better than 1998, are highly uncertain and depend on the
Government's policy response. Private investment is unlikely to expand since over-capacity is
large and for much of 1999 credit is likely to remain constrained for structural reasons. This
leaves private consumption, perhaps the component of aggregate demand most difficult to
predict because factors that influence consumption are working in opposite directions. While the
recent recovery in the stock market and less uncertainty with regard to financial variables will
tend to encourage consumption, real wages are likely to deteriorate and unemployment is likely
to increase as corporate restructuring and bankruptcies continue. Overall, private consumption is
unlikely to be a major source of growth unless policy provides more of an impetus, in particular,
fiscal policy. These uncertain conditions make the Government's policy response critical to
improve prospects for 1999. While the numbers are highly uncertain, Table 1 below projects the
major components of aggregate demand assuming a general government fiscal deficit of about 5-
6 percent of GDP net of financial restructuring costs.4
3   Indeed, recently the BOT has been purchasing significant amounts of foreign exchange, only partially
sterilized, in an effort to avoid further appreciation of the Baht. According to BOT, fully sterilized
intervention has proven to be less effective.
4   The BOT reports that preliminary estimates of the expenditure multiplier suggest that it is small, about 1. 1, in
Thailand. Further work is needed to refine this estimate.



-5 -
Box 1: IS THE ECONOMY BOTTOMING OUT?
Manufacturing production is still on a downward trend but the rate of contraction has slowed down
considerably, and there are encouraging signs in key manufacturing industries.
Figure 1: Manufacturing                        Figure 2: Private Investment Index
Production Index
130                 1995       1996                                   01995  - ----1996
125      ,-         -   1997   _ 1998
120    ..140                                                        ---1997  -1 998
115
110                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120
105                                              100
~~~~ 100   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~x80
C995                                                60
90                                               4
85
s0                                               20
20
Indeed, some sectors are doing better than others. Throughout the crisis, export-oriented sectors have
been performing better than domestically-oriented sectors. Some of the manufacturing sectors that are now
improving include the vehicles and transportation industries, which have been increasingly shifting from domestic
orientation to targeting foreign markets. The textiles industry is one of the few manufacturing industries that has
expanded throughout the crisis.
Outside of the manufacturing sector, data is limited but available evidence suggests that the agricultural
sector (11-13 percent of GDP) expanded by 2-3 percent in 1998, while the construction and gas, electricity and
water sectors contracted substantially.
Domestic demand. Although real retail sales peaked in the summer of 1996 and have fallen almost
continuously since then, recent data for 1998 suggest a bottoming out. Retail sales in 1998 have remained stable at
a level corresponding to 82 percent of sales in 1997. The contraction in car sales has also stabilized. The year-on-
year decline continues to be a staggering 70 percent, but it appears that sales have settled at a monthly average of
approximately 4,000 cars, compared to approximately 14,000 prior to the crisis.
Private investment has also begun to show signs of improvement. The BOT's private investment index
continues to record high contractions. However, any signs of improvement show up with considerable lag, since the
index is a 12-months moving average of six different proxies of investment. The large contraction in the index
conceals the fact that four key components of the index have bottomed out in recent months, including domestic
cement sales, imports of capital goods, construction areas pennitted in municipal zone, and credit for construction
and manufacturing.
2.8    An expansionary fiscal stance is an essential component of the recovery program in order
to strengthen aggregate demand, accelerate financial and corporate restructuring and cushion the
poor from the worst of the crisis. Over the course of 1997/98, the authorities have been
loosening their fiscal policy stance as the depth of the collapse in consumption and investment
became evident and external conditions weakened. While automatic stabilizers on the revenue
side have provided a large stimulus, their effect was more than offset by the decline in
expenditures. The fiscal impulse estimates shown below in Table 2 suggest that fiscal policy,



-6 -
given a broad definition of the public sector, was contractionary during FY97/98.5 In part, the
decline in expenditures reflects the difficulties in reversing at mid-year the expenditure cuts
adopted at the inception of the adjustment program.
Table 1: Thailand - Contribution To GDP Growth By Demand Component
Growth                    Contribution to GDP Growth
(Percent change)            (Change as % of previous year's GDP)
Est.    Proj.   Proj.               Est.    Proj.    Proj.
1996     1997      1998    1999      1996     1997     1998     1999
Consumption (1)        5.7%      0.0%   -14.3%     1.2%      3.5%     0.0%    -8.8%     0.7%
- Private (1)         5.2%      0.1%   -15.1%     1.0%      2.8%     0.1%    -8.2%     0.5%
- Public              9.5%      -0.6%    -8.7%    1.9%      0.7%     0.0%    -0.7%     0.1%
Investment             5.4%    -18.5%   -33.0%     2.0%      2.4%    -8.1%   -11.9%     0.5%
- Private (1)          1.5%    -26.0%   -40.7%    -2.7%     0.6%    -8.8%   -10.3%    -0.4%
- Public             20.8%        7.0  -15.0%     9.6%      1.8%     0.7%    -1.6%     1.0%
Net Exports             6.7%   -139.8%   576.6%    -1.2%    -0.4%     7.7%    12.7%    -0.2%
GDP Growth             5.5%      -0.4%    -8.0%    1.0%      5.5%    -0.4%    -8.0%      1.0%
Source: BOT, Staff estimates.
Note:  (1) Including statistical discrepancy.
(2) Including change in stocks.
2.9    The Government plans to implement a flexible counter-cyclical fiscal policy in
1998/99 and stands ready to change its policy stance if demand conditions are significantly
different from those forecast. The authorities believe that the original 1998/99 budget deficit
targets were not sufficiently expansionary and have prepared a supplemental budget for 1998/99
of additional central government expenditures, (about 1 to 1.5 percent of GDP). Scenario 1 of
Table 2 suggests that the original deficit target of 3.1 percent of GDP for the broad public sector
would be significantly contractionary as indicated by the negative impulse of more than 1 percent
of GDP. With the supplemental budget (scenario 2), the impulse number suggests fiscal policy
will add stimulus to aggregate demand, and will improve the composition of the deficit. The
composition of the deficit is important since expenditures of the central government are likely to
have a larger impact on aggregate demand than those of state enterprises, given the latter's larger
import content. Central government expenditures will also have a larger impact on the poor,
either directly, for example, if they strengthen safety nets, or indirectly, given a likely higher
wage content.
5 The public sector definition includes the central and local governments, and state owned enterprises. Taking
into account that capacity constraints delayed many expenditures until the end of the fiscal year, fiscal policy
must have been significantly contractionary during much of the fiscal year.



- 7 -
2.10  Despite the looser fiscal stance, and the higher estimated costs of financial sector
restructuring (see below), fiscal policy seems sustainable over the medium-term. The
interest cost of restracturing is now estimated to be in the order of 3 percent of GDP and debt to
GDP levels are estimated to rise to some 60 percent of GDP over the next two years. IMF
calculations suggest, however, that as real growth strengthens and real interest rates decline, and
as assets are recovered, debt levels would decline to around 40 percent of GDP by 2002/03 which
would compare favorably with both OECD and other middle income countries.
Table 2: Thailand - the Stance of Fiscal Policy
(in percent of GDP unless otherwise specified, on a fiscal year basis)
1996/97    1997/98          1998/99
Scenario 1   Scenario 2
Central government
Balance                             -1.4%      -2.4%       -1.0%       -3.0%
Neutral Balance (1)                  4.9%       3.3%        2.2%        2.2%
Fiscal Stance                        6.3%       5.7%        3.2%        5.2%
Fiscal Impulse                       3.2%      -0.6%       -3.1%       -1.1%
General Government
Balance                             -2.1%      -2.8%       -3.1%       -5.2%
Neutral Balance (1)                  5.1%       3.0%        1.7%        1.7%
Fiscal Stance                        7.2%       5.8%        4.8%        6.9%
Fiscal Impulse                       3.5%      -1.4%       -1.0%        1.1%



3. THE STRATEGY FOR ECONOMIC REVIVAL
3.1   The economic crisis in Thailand has unfolded in two phases. In the first phase from June
to December 1997, the economy suffered a massive loss of confidence manifest in large outflows
of capital, steep depreciation of the Baht and a flight of deposits from weak financial
institutions. In response, the Government put in place a macroeconomic stabilization program
with the help of the IMF and undertook financial sector restructuring with World Bank and IMF
assistance. While the program helped to restore market confidence and maintain broad exchange
rate stability, high interest rates, lower investment and poor export performance, slowed
economic recovery. In parallel, financial sector restructuring, with its emphasis on loss
recognition and recapitalization, made banks extremely cautious in extending loans to the
corporate sector. In the second, and ongoing, phase of the crisis, mutually reinforcing financial
and corporate difficulties have occurred.
3.2   During the second phase, a depreciated Baht, high interest rates, difficulty in accessing to
credit, falling domestic demand and anemic external demand have combined to weaken corporate
balance sheets and reduce profitability. Corporate distress, in turn, has contributed to rising non-
performing loans in the financial sector and made financial institutions reluctant to lend. This
financial and corporate nexus is at the root of Thailand's deep recession.
3.3   The Government is responding to the challenge of reviving the economy with a two-
pronged strategy that complements micro reforms with stimulating aggregate demand. The first
prong focuses on completing the ongoing reform of the financial sector, facilitating corporate
workouts, reform of bankruptcy and foreclosure, strengthening corporate governance and state
enterprise reform. The second prong complements the first and seeks to stimulate aggregate
demand via an expansionary fiscal policy, with special attention to social protection.
A. STRENGTHENING THE MICROECONOMIC FOUNDATIONS
A.1. Financial Sector Restructuring
3.4   The Bank, in close coordination with the Fund, has a program to support resolution and
restructuring of financial institutions, stronger regulations and supervision, and deeper capital
markets. Individual institutions are to be restructured to increase the safety, soundness and
efficiency in financial services provision in Thailand.



9-
Managing problem institutions
Financial Sector Actions since the December 1997 closing of 56 Finance Companies
3.5    Progress with core assets sales by the Financial Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA)
continues to be satisfactory, as detailed in Box 2.6 The third round of sales of the core financial
assets took place on December 15, 1998. The auction included 45 tranches of commercial and
real estate loans, with an aggregate outstanding principal of over US$11 billion (in book value,
roughly half of the core assets of the 56 now-defunct finance companies). The auction resulted
in the sale of 41 percent of the portfolio at an average of 25 percent of outstanding principal
balance, through cash payments plus profit sharing agreements. Low returns on the sales were
blamed on the combined effect of poor quality assets, the market's limited absorptive capacity,
investor concern over Thailand's ineffective bankruptcy and foreclosure regime, and the
relatively high benchmark prices set by the FRA.
3.6    The FRA is planning to auction off the unsold portfolio on March 10, 1999. The Asset
Management Corporation (AMC) will take part in this second round, and the assets will be
repackaged in smaller tranches to make them more attractive to local (non-AMC) bidders. It is
also expected that the FRA will revise and ease some of the bidding conditions--e.g. make non-
cash payments acceptable under well-defined circumstances. The FRA has announced that
remaining unsold portfolio will be up for auction in mid-1999. In addition to continuing the
sales, the FRA has also finalized rules and procedures for: (i) filing creditors' claims; and (ii)
distributing surplus funds to creditors. The proposed loan supports progress in this area.
Box 2: Resolution of the 56 Closed Finance Companies - Actions taken
* February 1998: classification by the FRA of assets of closed finance companies completed and creditors of
each company provided with "statement of affairs."
* February 1998: forms of payments required from bidders defined by FRA.
* March 1998: final decision by creditors of the 40 finance companies, whether to choose the note exchange
program or to participate in the FRA auction process, taken.
* AMC established to purchase unsold assets from the FRA; appointment of key AMC staff.
* Capitalization of financing for AMC and timetable for the disbursement to AMC being implemented
* February 1998: began sales of finance company movable assets (cars, computers, works of art, etc.).
* May 1998: FRA Act amended to facilitate asset sales by providing "good title" and eliminating legal
obstacles.
* May 1998: AMC Act amended to allow AMC capital increase (from BI billion to BIO billion).
* June 1998: AMC internal polices and procedures approved by government.
. Work to set up the AMC Management Information System for asset management and disposition initiated.
* June 1998: first FRA auction of core financial assets.(Winning bid 48 percent of principal )
. August 1998: second FRA auction of core financial assets. (Winning bid 47 percent of principal)
* December 1998: third FRA auction of core financial assets (Average winning bids 25% of principal)
6   The Financial Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA) is responsible for overseeing the orderly liquidation of 56
of the 58 finance companies suspended in June and August 1997.



- 10-
3.7    As regards the AMC, its role remains unclear because it has not yet acquired any assets
from FRA. In view of the results of the latest FRA sale, the AMC is expected to acquire
substantial assets in the second round of auctions scheduled for end-February 1999. If this is the
case, the government has committed to ensure that these assets will be managed and liquidated
effectively. '
3.8    To increase transparency and instill confidence among domestic and international
investors, as well as the Government, that the process and procedures utilized are effective and
consistent with best international practices, the Government retained recognized independent
experts of international standing to complete reviews of both FRA and AMC. Executive
summaries of the two third party reviews were made public in December 1998.
Restructuring and Recapitalization of the Core Financial Institutions
3.9    After the suspension of the 58 finance companies, the Bank of Thailand (BOT)
committed to a tough policy of recapitalization of the remaining financial institutions that formed
the core of the financial system. The strategy was based on a progressive strengthening of
provisioning requirements designed to prompt financial institutions to obtain fresh capital.
Box 3: RESTRUCTURING OF FINANCIAL INSTIUTIONS - ACTIONS TAKEN
*  Year end 1997: BOT increased provisioning requirements and signed recapitalization MOUs.
*  Early 1998: takeover of four critically undercapitalized banks (Bangkok Bank of Commerce, First Bangkok
City Bank, Siam City Bank and Bangkok Metropolitan Bank) and in May 1998 seven finance companies
unable to meet recapitalization deadlines.
* March 31, 1998: a new set of loan classification and provisioning rules, in line with the best international
practices.
*  First half of 1998: two large banks were able to raise capital, and a few small banks or finance companies were
purchased by foreign investors.
* August 1998: new MOUs were signed, which provided for phased-in compliance on classification and
provisioning to the year 2000. Standard BOT will follow closely the compliance with the terms of the MOUs.
3.10   Initially the authorities expected that the increased transparency of financial institutions
would attract new investors, both domestic and foreign. However, the continued difficulties in
the real sector and increasing NPLs have made potential investors extremely cautious. As a
result, it became clear that the market-driven recapitalization would not be sufficient and further
government support would be required. On August 14, 1998 the Thai Government announced a
plan for the recapitalization of troubled and intervened financial institutions. Details of the plan
can be found in Box 4.
7   The AMC mandate is to acquire impaired assets auctioned by FRA for which no acceptable private sector bid
is received; to manage, restructure, and collect on these assets; and eventually resell them.



Box 4: AUGUST 14,1998- THE RECAPITALIZATION PLAN
* Essential elements of the plan are: (i) public recognition of the problem; (ii) commitment of funds to assist in the
restructuring of potentially viable financial institutions (up to B300 billion); (iii) incentives to lenders for
accelerating borrower debt restructuring and new lending; (iv) the efficient management of non-performing
assets; (v) exit, merger or sale of nonviable institutions; (vi) equitable loss-sharing arrangements, containment of
public sector costs, and an attempt to avoid moral hazard; (vii) the strengthening of prudential supervision and
the accelerated adoption of loan loss provisioning rules; and (viii) the operational restructuring of state banks and
their preparation for eventual privatization.
* Write down of shareholders' capital, and conversion of FIDF liquidity support to new capital.
* Two banks -- Union Bank (UB) and Laem Thong Bank (LTB) -- and 5 finance companies were also intervened.
* Intervened banks: I) Bangkok Metropolitan Bank and Siam City Bank to be privatized by end-98; 2) Krung Thai
Bank (KTB) to absorb First Bangkok City Bank and performinig assets, deposits and other liabilities of Bangkok
Bank of Commerce (BBC), while BBC itself will be transformed into an Assets Management Corporation;
3)consolidated KTB to be recapitalized by end-98; and 4) LTB to be taken over by Radhanasin Bank. Krung Thai
Thanakit (KTT) will have taken over the intervened finance companies and integrated its operations with UB.
* As a result of these actions, there will be a consolidation of the financial sector.
* The BOT has announced the modalities of the privatization for the government controlled institutions.
3.11   Four banks have so far announced their intention to take advantage of the August 14
recapitalization scheme--two for both the tier 1 and the tier 2 scheme, one for the tier 1 scheme
only, and one for the tier 2 scheme only. Also underway are the merger of the intervened banks
and finance companies into KTB and KTT, and the development of action plans for the eventual
privatization of these two institutions. Work on the privatization of the two intervened banks is
progressing, albeit with some delay.
Strengthening the financial sector structure
Strategy for the future offinancial services
3.12   Initially the authorities have focused on resolution of troubled financial institutions. The
time has come, however, to address the structural issues which contributed to the crisis, and are
now preventing the financial system from acting as a prudent and efficient intermediary of
savings. These issues relate back to the overall incentive framework for the financial sector, and
include structural, legal, regulatory, supervisory, incentives and information weaknesses. The
crisis itself has also created several medium-term issues: How will structural changes now
underway play out? How will foreign competition introduce new dynamics in the market? Is
there a role, and with what function, for certain segments of the market such as finance
companies and off-shore banks?



FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
FCR L     |EFA                L        Proposed           Proposed
I~~ ~~~ I                                                             
STRENG THENING THE SUPERVISION AND REGULA TORY CAPACI TY\                            *_ i  l  _ _ 
|STRENGTHENING FINANCIAL SECTOR STRUCTURE\                                                    ll l  _        *
STEN TEING MRKETDISCILIN



- 13 -
3.13 With these questions in mind, the Government intends to set up a Financial Services Task
Force. This group aims to identify and implement financial sector policies, laws and regulations
needed to ensure that the financial sector is safe, sound, and efficient in pricing and delivering
financial services. At the same time, the Task Force will be instrumental in ensuring that the
ongoing financial sector restructuring fits into a clearly defined medium-term strategy. The Task
Force is expected to submit its final recommendations to the Government by end-August 1999.
The findings of the Task Force will shape the next phase of financial sector reform.
Capital market development
3.14 The government started in mid-1998 issuing longer-term government bonds to refinance
the Financial Institutions Development Fund (FIDF). The unprecedented amount of issuance of
government securities represents a difficult challenge but also an unmistakable opportunity to
develop the domestic bond market in Thailand. A deep and efficient domestic bond market will
enable the Government to reduce funding costs, and allow the private sector to raise financing
without excessive exposure to banks and foreign exchange risk. It will also promote efficient
allocation of financial assets, facilitate monetary management and enhance financial stability and
resiliency against inflationary pressure. The MOF has established a Working Group for
Domestic Bond Market Development, with participation from BOT, the SEC, and other
stakeholders, to identify issues to be addressed and formulate an action plan for implementation.
The Bank will continue to provide assistance in this area.'
3.15 There is a wide range of issues which must be addressed to ensure that bond issuance is
successful and to further develop a deep, efficient, and sustainable domestic bond market. This
includes: (i) public sector debt and risk management capacity; (ii) legal, regulatory and tax
impediments to higher bond demand; (iii) BOT auction procedures and the primary dealership
system, (iv) enhancement of the trading, clearing, settlement and market information systems to
achieve automated Delivery versus Payments in settling government bond trades.
Specialized Financial Institutions
3.16 The government is reviewing its main specialized financial institutions (SFIs) - EXIM
Bank, Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Co-operatives (BAAC), Government Savings Bank
(GSB), Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT), and Small Industry Finance
Corporation (SIFC). The review of the SFIs has several objectives:
*     evaluate the SFIs' supervisory regime
*     assess SFIs' strengths and weaknesses, financial position and operations
*     evaluate the present role and mandate of each SFI.
3.17 This review, begun in May 1998, is to be followed by thorough analyses of the financial
condition and the economic role of each SFI. The BOT - the new supervisory authority for SFIs
8  The ADB has taken the lead in capital markets development work in Thailand.



- 14-
- has initiated on-site examinations of the SFIs, with a view to assess possible recapitalization
and upgrading needs. An in-depth analysis of the present and future role of the SFIs and their
interaction with other financial institutions will also be conducted as part of the work on the
overall strategy for the Thai financial sector.
Enhancing the regulatory and safety net regime
A comprehensive supervision framework
3.18   Financial institutions are currently supervised by several agencies.9 Fair competition
among different financial institutions requires harmonized prudential regulations to promote the
soundness of the sector. The Government, with Bank assistance, intends to develop a
comprehensive framework for the supervision of financial institutions. In working out this
strategy, the authorities will consider: (a) market discipline versus detailed supervision/regulation
models, (b) single versus several supervisory authorities; (c) how to develop consistent
prudential regulations for all financial institutions; and (d) what are the best legal and regulatory
grounds to consolidate supervision of financial groups.
3.19   As part of the rationalization of the supervisory framework, responsibility for the
supervision of SFIs was shifted from the Ministry of Finance (Fiscal Policy Office) to the BOT
effective from October V, 1998.  The BOT is working on a plan to effectively carry out this
responsibility, including identifying required legal amendments and enhanced prudential rules,
and a timetable for implementation of these statutory and regulatory amendments.
Strengthening supervision and regulation offinancial institutions
3.20 At the request of the MOF and with Bank support, a Steering Committee supported by a
Working Group, composed of experts from several central banks and supervisory authorities,
was created to review the operations of the BOT. The Committee suggested amendments to the
commercial banking legislation and regulations plus legislation covering the payment system
(see Box 5). It also proposed the creation of a deposit insurance agency and made suggestions to
strengthen the supervisory capacity of BOT.
3.21   Partly in response to the Committee's recommendations, the legal and regulatory
framework for financial institutions is being revised. As part of the reform of the Central Bank
and the Commercial Bank Acts, the Government intends to submit to Parliament by end-July
1999 draft legislation to strengthen the role of the BOT in the supervision and regulation of
financial institutions, including prompt corrective action authority. The Bank is providing
technical assistance in this area.
9   BOT supervises commercial banks, finance companies, credit fonciers, and SFIs; the Securities and Exchange
Commission supervises securities companies; mutual funds, and provident funds; the Ministry of Commerce
oversees insurance companies; and the Ministry of Agriculture supervises agricultural cooperative institutions.



- 15 -
3.22 BOT supervisory capacity is also being strengthened. The aim is to build capacity to
accurately assess financial institutions based on off-site and on-site examinations, use
supervisory powers, and enforce prudential rules. BOT has already adopted a time-bound
Institutional Development Plan (IDP) to enhance its capacity to supervise banks and finance
companies. The BOT and the Bank will jointly review the first 12 months of implementation of
the IDP by March 1999.
Box 5: REVIEW OF FINANCIAL SECTOR LAWS
Suggestions to Strengthen Central Bank Law:
* Clearly define objectives for the operation of the Central Bank;
* Establish the Central Bankes functional independence from the government;
* Create a clear division of responsibility between the central bank and the government with regard to
supervision;
* Enforce accountability of the central bank through reports to the legislative arm of the government;
* Establish clear lines of authority and responsibility within the Central Bank.
Suggestions to Strengthen Financial Institutions Laws:
* Clearly allocate of authority and responsibility between government entities;
* Establish functional independence and clearly defined authority and responsibility of the financial
institution licensing, supervisory and regulatory entities from the government;
*  Clearly define scope of permissible operations for each type of fnancial institution;
* Incorporate the Basle Committee "Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision";
. Implement a legal process for intervening, rehabilitating and liquidating failed financial institutions;
*  Introduce amendments to the Central Bank Law and a draft of the Financial Institution Law to the Cabinet
in 1998. The Bank is providing technical assistance to prepare this new legislation.
An Explicit and Restricted Deposit-Protection Scheme
3.23   A key element of the financial sector restructuring strategy is to phase out the August
1997 comprehensive guarantee to all depositors. The Government is committed to a transition to
a more restricted deposit-protection scheme, which will be put in operation once the financial
markets stabilize. It has established a Working Group to study the modalities for the
establishment of the deposit-protection scheme based on international experience, and to
undertake early preparatory work for the establishment and operation of a Deposit Insurance
Agency (DIA). This work includes: (i) institutional framework to manage the deposit-protection
scheme; (ii) funding mechanism and membership; (iii) mandate, duties, and range of insured
deposits; payment modalities; (iv) monitoring and corporate governance. A preliminary report
by the Working Group was prepared in September 1998.



- 16-
A.2 Corporate Debt Restructuring
The Extent of Corporate Distress
3.24   The financial position of the corporate
sector continued to deteriorate throughout 1998.       NPL share, 3-month basis, Nov
For the first time, operating profits for 340 non-                 1998
financial firms listed on the Stock Exchange of         80
Thailand, fell below interest expense, on average.    %  60
Debt to equity ratios continued to increase as    of
total
equity deteriorated and unpaid debts accumulated.  loans   2
The average ratio of liabilities to equity in the   l
Thai stock exchange reached 3.58 in the first half         Finance Thai  Thai Foreign
of 1998. Corporate distress is not limited to any            Co   State Private banks
particular sector; within each sector, there are both
distressed and successful firms. By the end of
1998, non-performing loans measured on a three-month basis grew to 46 percent of commercial
bank loans. Of these, over two-thirds are considered to require both operational and financial
restructuring or liquidation. Up to one third require purely financial restructuring (rescheduling,
reduction of interest or capitalization of interest accumulated during the Baht stabilization
period).
3.25   The policy response to date has been four-fold: (1) to provide an effective legal
framework for recovery of non-performing debt through rehabilitation or through enforcement of
security interests; (2) to provide a voluntary framwvork for corporate debt restructuring, along
with institutional support through the Bank of Thailand; (3) to provide incentives to corporates
and to banks through tax policy, regulatory changes, more coordinated information sharing, and
bank recapitalization schemes; and (4) through building the required restructuring capacity in the
appropriate financial, managerial and judicial institutions.



STRENGTHENING BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING
| CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY  \  |  |  l  |  l l 
|PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM AND PRIVA TIZA TION                                    \l|l =            1ll
ICOMPETITION POLICY AND COMPETITIVENESS \||ll|ll



-18-
Strengthening The Legal Framework for Recovery of Non-Performing Debt
3.26 Thailand amended its Bankruptcy Act to enable reorganization of potentially viable
corporates in April 1998. The reorganization amendment has proved workable in its early usage,
but several technical problems have emerged which have limited its usefulness in resolving large
arnounts of distressed debt. First, it is a new legal framework and the institutional capacity to
implement is still being developed.'" Like the banking system, the judicial system must become
more acquainted with the analytical treatment of distressed corporates." Secondly, both debtors
and creditors are reluctant to use the legally binding process without some precedents. Finally,
financial institution creditors need to demonstrate their ability to force court-supervised
reorganizations and to replace uncooperative debtor-management with creditor-imposed
planners. EFAL II supports further amendments to the bankruptcy laws including improved
security for new money lent to a company in distress, voting by creditor class, rescission of
related party transfers, limits to discretion for court action, conversion of foreign currency-
denominated claims, and the creation of a specialized bankruptcy court.
3.27   The lack of a well-functioning process for exercising security rights is a key obstacle to
more rapid progress in corporate restructuring. While foreclosure laws predate the crisis, they
suffer from numerous flaws which render them effectively unworkable. The process of claim,
judgement, execution and collection on security supporting a loan often takes more than five
years, and sometimes as long as ten. Debtors frequently delay judgements by failing to respond
to a court summons. Debtors may contest or appeal judgements and further delay execution.
Because liquidation of collateral offers such low and uncertain returns, the "floor price" guiding
the voluntary or formal debt restructuring efforts is very low -- the terms offered by debtors for
restructured debt are far below what creditors consider acceptable. The most developed
bankruptcy reorganization case, Alphatec, was initially rejected by the lead creditor primarily
because of a low recovery rate. The EFAL II program supports several important amendments
which would expedite the enforcement of security interests, including improvements to the
simple case procedure, court summons procedures, and limitations on discretionary power to
rescind auction sales.
3.28   Substantial capacity is available to implement court-supervised reorganizations, including
appointment of planners to run a company undergoing reorganization. Almost all of this
implementation capacity, however, resides in private-sector law and accounting firms rather than
in the Courts and Business Restructuring Office (BRO) of the Ministry of Justice. EFAL II
policy conditions reflect the Government's intention to establish a Bankruptcy Court. Until its
receivers are more fully trained, however, it would be reasonable for the BRO to "outsource"
some of its receivership workload to experienced insolvency lawyers and accountants already
practicing in Thailand. The intent is to increase capacity for overseeing planners appointed to
manage corporate debtors in formal reorganizations.
10  Only three reorganization cases had been approved for court supervision as of August 1998.
In a well-publicized case, a bankruptcy judge ruled that a debtor with negative operating cashflow, two years
in default, did not quality for bankruptcy because the book value of its assets exceeded liabilities.



- 19-
Secured Lending and the Automated Centralized Registry for Secured Interests
3.29   Even with improved bankruptcy and foreclosure procedures to discharge the build-up of
distressed debt, the environment for secured lending in the future requires comprehensive reform.
This reform should create a broader range of possible assets which can be used as collateral,
including receivables, intangibles, and possibly, floating charges and clearly define the rights of
parties to a secured lending transaction.
3.30  In addition to making it easier for debtors to obtain secured loans, an automated central
registry would protect creditors from "double pledging" of the same collateral. EFAL II policy
conditions include Government approval of key principles and a timetable for early
establishment of such a registry. The Bank is considering the provision of technical assistance to
advise the Government on establishment of such a registry.
Voluntary Corporate Debt Restructuring
3.31   Thailand has developed a voluntary Framework for Corporate Restructuring in Thailand
("The Bangkok Rules") with the assistance of the Foreign Banks' Association familiar with the
London approach to corporate restructuring. The Framework consists of 19 principles which
define the expectations of debtors, creditors and authorities in the voluntary (out-of-court)
workout process. It emphasizes business viability, full information disclosure, and the sharing of
restructuring losses among creditors in an equitable manner that recognizes legal priorities
between the parties involved. It also includes a 13-step timetable for the process as described
below. The Framnework was endorsed by creditors on September 27, 1998.
Step                                                       Indicative Deadline
1. Initial debtor-creditor meeting
2. Creditors meeting, appoint lead bank                       Day 7
3. Creditors submit claims                                    Day 15
4. Ongoing creditors meetings
5. Debtor management submits financial data                   Day 21
6. Apioint independent accountant                             Day 7
7. Debtor submits further information                         Within two months
8. Submit plan                                                Within three months
9. Creditors meet on plan                                     10 days after 8
10. Amendments to plan                                         7 days after 8
11. Continued consideration of plan
12. New creditors meeting, if necessary
13. Decide whether to privately reorganize, formally reorganize or  Within three months
liquidate
3.32 The Corporate Debt Restructuring Advisory Committee (CDRAC) was established on
June 22, 1998 under the Chairmanship of the Governor of the Bank of Thailand to facilitate
public-private dialogue on policy issues that impact debt restructuring.. The members are the
Chairmen of the Thai Bankers' Association, the Foreign Banks' Association, the Association of



-20 -
Finance Companies, the Board of Trade and the Federation of Thai Industries. In October, 1998,
CDRAC was strengthened through the appointment of a Working Group, led by four Deputy
Directors of the Bank of Thailand, and a secretariat within the Bank of Thailand. The secretariat
provides quantitative updates on progress in corporate restructuring, and the Working Group
facilitates and coordinates restructuring efforts in a pool of 200 priority restructuring cases
identified by the CDRAC members (actually 353, including subsidiaries and affiliates). These
companies cover a broad cross-section of Thai industry, with concentrations in manufacturing
(48 percent), real estate (18 percent) wholesale/retail (12 percent) and construction (6 percent).
The debt of these 353 companies is 630 billion Baht, roughly US$39.5 million on an average.
Distribution of Debt in CDRAC Process
IFCr/Ex-im
Rep.    3%
174
IBF Thai                           44%
7%
Closed Fin
Cos-  Finance Co.  Foreign
8%     10%       Banks
3.33  Progress in Corporate Debt Restructuring.  Despite the establishment of the
Framework and CDRAC, progress in corporate debt restructuring was slow in 1998. As of the
end of November, approximately 82 billion Baht of the CDRAC caseload was restructured. By
February, 1999 the pace of creditor approvals of restructuring plans improved, both
quantitatively and qualitatively. The US$362 million (14 billion Baht) restructuring of Alphatec
Electronics was Thailand's first approved fornal reorganization plan under the 1998
reorganization amendment. A consumer products firm and a telecommunications firm reached
agreement with creditors; the former as the first large voluntary restructuring without a major
strategic investment, and the latter as the first voluntary debt restructuring involving international
bondholders. A provision allowing banks to temporarily hold more than 10 percent of a
borrower's equity in a debt-equity swap was tested, as Thai Danu took a reported 46 percent
equity position in a distressed carpet manufacturer. Finally, Thai Petrochemicals reached
agreement with major creditors on a restructuring plan which is now being circulated for general
ratification. This is the country's largest restructuring case with over US$3 billion in outstanding
debt.



- 21 -
Table 3: Thailand - Progress in Restructuring Reported to the Bank of Thailand
(Billion Baht)
In Process 1998                 Completed in 1998
Jun     Sept     Oct   Nov    Jun         Sept    Oct    Nov
Manufacturing             131     228      266    287        2        6      10       32
Construction                6       14      20      20                 1      3        3
Real Estate                29      61       99      85        0        1      6       15
Exports                     6        8       9       17                       0        2
Others                     45      133     175     185        1       8       17      30
Total                    217      438      569    596        3        16     36       82
3.34   The caseload of CDRAC represents Thailand's larger industrial conglomerates whose
debt restructuring is made more complicated by the significant amount of foreign borrowings. In
fact, a significant amount of restructuring occurs outside of the CDRAC process. This includes
three ongoing reorganizations under the new Bankruptcy Law, a large number of rollovers and
restructuring in the SME sector, and government-assisted efforts in the agricultural sector.
Furthermore, foreign banks report a significant amount of rescheduling and restructuring of debt
with companies that remain non-performing debtors to domestic creditors.
3.35   In addition to the progress reported by commercial banks, the Ministry of Finance, with
the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC), has devised a debt
restructuring in the sugar industry estimated at 90 billion Baht. This is a significant step for the
industry, which includes 160,000 sugar-cane planters, another 300,000 cutters, 27,000 workers in
sugar mills. The 46 mills in Thailand required debt restructuring as a result of arrears
accumulated due to draught-induced reduction in processing yield in the 1997-98 season. These
arrears caused banks to reduce lending, which in turn threatened processors' ability to finance
their suppliers' planting and harvesting by issuing advance payment certificates. The Ministry of
Finance, aware of the potential damage to the economy, allocated 10 billion Baht to the BAAC
for working capital to sugar millers. Simultaneously, the Ministry coordinated a private-sector
debt restructuring effort, which was successful except for three plants, which were closed. The
amount of debt restructured exceeds 90 billion Baht. Similar efforts are underway in the rice and
construction sectors.
3.36   Despite efforts to create a conducive environment,'2 progress on corporate restructuring
has been slow. It appears that the Framework of principles for voluntary workouts and other
efforts must be supplemented with organizational initiatives to address five concerns:
12  Key initiatives include amendment of the Bankruptcy Act to allow for court-supervised reorganization;
temporary tax relief for debt restructuring; BOT regulations on loan classification and full provisioning by
2000; provisions for Tier 2 recapitalization; and presentation of operating principles for voluntary corporate
workouts in the Frameworkfor Corporate Restructuring in Thailand ("Framework").



- 22 -
. A still-evolving enabling environment, including insufficient incentives to encourage
debtors to cooperate in servicing their debts or to support voluntary workout efforts;
. A need for enhanced facilitation of restructuring, including support in preparing
operational and financial restructuring plans directly to corporates and a more proactive
stance of CDRAC in facilitating productive debt negotiations;
* More rapid development of restructuring capacity in the private sector, to enable more
decentralized and rapid decision making;
* A need to accelerate efforts through better monitoring and sequencing of effort to enable
efficient management of a large number of corporate restructuring cases; and
* Power to arbitrate inter-creditor disputes.
Strengthening the Enabling Environment: Legal, Tax and Regulatory Incentives to
Restructure
3.37 The BOT Guidelines included two policy memoranda circulated to the financial
community. The policy letter defined the scope of the debt restructuring program, the formation
of debt restructuring policy in each financial institution, the required documentation, accounting
procedures related to classification, loss provisioning requirements, and instructions of the
auditor. The second letter defined criteria for the valuation of guarantees.
3.38 In November 1998, the Bank of Thailand announced that all laws and regulations
concerning the tax treatment of debt restructuring in effect.
- On 2 June and 1 July, 1998, the Bank of Thailand circulated financial institutions
regulations on the process of corporate debt restructuring.
- On 22 August, 1998, Royal Decree (No. 325) was issued under the Revenue Code
exempting income tax, value-added tax, specific business tax and duty stamp in
restructuring cases, where debt restructuring results in imputed income to the debtor.
3 On 7 September 1998, the Royal Gazette published a decree allowing debt write-off to be
considered an expense, thereby reducing a financial institution's tax liability. A further
order of the Revenue department concerned calculation of the debt restructuring loss for
tax purposes. These regulations initially applied to financial institutions regulated by the
Bank of Thailand, for restructuring conducted according to Bank of Thailand regulations,
and occurring between 1 January 1998 and 31 December 1999. They were subsequently
expanded to non-financial institution creditors.
* The Cabinet approved a regulation reducing the tax on transfers of real estate from 2
percent to 0.01 percent.
3.39  The SEC has amended some notification requirements for companies involved in a
rehabilitation plan. The approval period was reduced from 45 to 30 days, and some approval
criteria were relaxed. For SMEs, the SEC adopted a disclosure-based approach over a merit-
based approach. Nonetheless, significant legal and regulatory challenges remain. Among these
is the requirement to purchase shares for cash, and then to have the debtor use the cash to repay
debt. This practice is vulnerable to challenge in a voluntary workout. A frequently cited



- 23 -
restriction on the conversion of debt to equity is the requirement for cash purchase of newly
issued shares.
Credit Bureau
3.40  Because creditors did not share information, it was possible for non-performing debtors
to obtain additional credit from other financial and trade creditors. A credit bureau would enable
potential lenders to review the repayment performance of the potential borrower and mitigate
risks accordingly. EFAL II policy conditions reflect the BOT's direction to the Thai Bankers
Association (TBA) to establish a credit bureau. Organized under the auspices of the TBA - and
perhaps the Association of Finance Companies and Foreign Bankers Association, as well - this
credit bureau should be a non-profit organization owned by participating financial institutions. In
Thailand, Parliamentary approval is required to amend banking disclosure laws to allow
information sharing among creditors. The Bank of Thailand has submitted, and the Cabinet has
approved, legislation enabling the credit bureau to share selected financial information with
subscribers. In anticipation that it will be passed, the IFC is exploring the possibility of
establishing the Bureau as a conmmercial joint venture between a recognized body and one or
several private banks in Thailand. If this does not materialize, the Bank would be willing to
finance technical assistance to help establish such a credit bureau.
Accelerating the Restructuring Process: Improved Monitoring and Sequencing
3.41  Improved monitoring capabilities at BOT are needed for three reasons: (a) to promote
efficient disposition of numerous corporate restructuring cases; (b) to trigger a requirement for
voluntary or court-supervised restructuring in cases where a debtor selectively repays some
creditors while neglecting others; and (c) to communicate with the market on progress in
corporate restructuring.
3.42 Given the many candidates for corporate restructuring,'3 major restructuring cases
(defined by BOT as one with NPLs of at least Baht 100 million) should be sequenced so as to
concentrate first on the greatest chances for success. Sequencing should consider three variables:
(i) viability of the debtor's business (ii) the likelihood of cooperation from the debtor, and (iii)
the complexity of the restructuring case.
3.43  Noting that less viable companies tended to be the first to experience financial distress,
several creditors suggest a last-in-first-out (LIFO) approach. On the assumption that more
recently occurring non-perforning companies are fundamentally more sound than those which
went into non-performing status earlier, voluntary restructuring would focus first on the more
recent cases to arrest the growth of NPLs.
3.44  In some cases, corporate debtors are servicing some creditors while neglecting others.
Secured Thai banks receive preferential treatment over unsecured lenders, who typically include
13  Behind the 200 cases identified by the BOT/CDRAC for priority treatment, over 1,000 medium-sized
restructuring candidates between 100 and 500 million Baht each await handling.



- 24 -
finance companies, foreign banks, and bondholders. The secured lender being repaid has no
incentive - and perhaps even a disincentive - to initiate corporate restructuring. Thus, the BOT's
monitoring system should identify cases of selective debt service, which would trigger a
requirement for either voluntary or court-supervised corporate restructuring. This approach
could include the following directives from BOT:
* BOT designation of up to 2 lead creditors - one secured and one unsecured;14
* A BOT requirement for the two lead creditors and debtor to convene an initial meeting of
major creditors within 7 days - followed by additional creditor meetings, establishment
of claims, review of financial information and plans submitted by the debtor, and
negotiation and agreement among creditors; and
* A BOT agreement for financial institution creditors to decide within 90 days on voluntary
restructuring; court-supervised reorganization; or liquidation of the debtor.
Intercreditor Agreement and Arbitration
3.45 Restructuring transactions currently require a unanimous approval, which is extremely
difficult to obtain. The slow process of reaching consensus prompted the Bank to explore the
concept of intercreditor arbitration with CDRAC and the creditor community. CDRAC provided
a draft of a similar agreement used in Korea. In these meetings, Thai creditors expressed support
for a more efficient workout process.  Along with the Bank of Thailand, associations
representing Thai banks, finance companies, and foreign banks have agreed on an approach,
which is now being circulated to lenders for their legally-binding endorsement. This approach
includes:
*     adherence to the timetable expressed in the Framework for Corporate Debt Restructuring;
*     a provision that restructuring plans would be approved through a consensus vote of 75
percent by debt amount, 50 percent by number of debtors;
*     an arbitration panel, consisting of experienced financial and/or restructuring members, to
address cases where 75 percent agreement could not be achieved;
*     that the process would be legally empowered through contract among creditors, possibly
including use of fines.
3.46 While implementation of EFAL II conditionality will represent a strong improvement in
the legal framework, enabling environment, and speed of the restructuring process, it represents
only a starting point for the incentive structure for the large amount of voluntary financial and
operational restructuring which must be achieved. Toward this end, the Bank has conducted
training programs for Thai banks and debtor management, has designed a business advisory
center for assisting corporate enterprises in the restructuring process and build Thai professional
capacity, and is now designing a loan operation to fund high-level facilitation of debt
restructuring.
14 These lead creditors would head Steering Committees. Other creditor groups - e.g., bondholders and suppliers
- would, of course, select their own heads.



-25 -
A.3 Competitiveness
FinancialAccountability and Corporate Governance
3.47  Investor confidence and market efficiency depend on two critical factors. First, the legal
standards that govern shareholders, directors, and management, need to be clear and transparent
including the fiduciary role and liabilities of directors and management. Second, accurate, timely
and complete financial information about corporate performance must be compiled and
disclosed. These two conditions lie at the heart of corporate govemance and provide an efficient
means of protecting shareholder interests.
3.48 Under EFAL I, the Thai authorities committed themselves to a program of institutional
and policy change to strengthen corporate governance and improve financial reporting. The
objectives of the program are to a) rationalize the institutional framework for setting standards
and regulating accounting and auditing practices, b) strengthen the Institute of Certified
Accountants and Auditors of Thailand (ICAAT) to play a leadership role in development of the
profession consistent with the international best practices, c) improve the quality and reliability
of financial information provided by public corporations to regulators, shareholders and the
general public, d) improve accountability of boards of directors and management of public
companies and e) rationalize the regulatory framework for enforcement of laws and regulations
for public companies. In fulfillment of the Board conditions of EFAL I (July 1998), the
authorities made a series of announcements launching this program. Commitments under the
Letter of Development Policy are being implemented under Bank technical assistance.
3.49 Building on the agreement reached under EFAL I, the Government has initiated a major
program of reform to streamline institutional arrangements and improve boards' effectiveness
and accountability. Based on a time-bound program, an independent accounting standard-setting
organization will be established and the role of the ICAAT will be upgraded to a self-regulatory
organization. Accounting and auditing standards will be upgraded to international best practices
and new specific rules on accounting, external auditing, and financial disclosures will be
proposed for banks, finance companies and SFIs. A plan will be implemented to remove the
burdensome statutory requirements for submitting audit reports for partnership and inactive
limited companies.
3.50  The roles and responsibilities of the audit committees of the Boards of Directors for listed
companies will be upgraded to a level consistent with international best practices. Also, SET will
revise the guidelines on the code of best practice for listed company directors to a level
consistent with international best practices, and will propose an appropriate deadline for the
disclosure of compliance or no-compliance with such guidelines to be mandatory under the
SET's disclosure requirements. Shareholder rights will be improved though increased access to
performance-related information; the exercising of voting rights; and promotion of active and
independent members of boards of directors.



- 26 -
3.51  Furthermore, the Government will intensify its efforts to provide clear, consistent, and
enforceable securities and capital market regulations designed to protect shareholder rights and to
ensure an effective regulatory framework capable of enforcing such regulations.
Privatization
3.52 Under EFAL I and the Bank's ongoing Economic Management Assistance Project
(EMAP), the authorities are committed to creating competitive markets to improve infrastructure
service delivery, devolve commercial activities to the private sector and increase the efficiency of
public enterprises. As part of its reform package to address the economic crisis, the Government
has embarked on a comprehensive agenda for reforming state enterprises and implementing a
privatization program. In designing the program, the principal objective is to develop a viable
and consistent reform strategy; to attend to social consequences of privatization during the
economic crisis; and to establish an appropriate regulatory framework for private participation in
water, power, transport and telecommunications. Following the LDP of EFAL I, the Master Plan
for State Enterprise Reform was drafted under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance and
approved by the Cabinet on September 1, 1998. The Master Plan lays out a timetable for
privatization in four key sectors-water, telecommunications, transport, and energy-plus other
state owned enterprises. To lend credibility to the program, the Government has started to divest
several holdings (see Annex 2).
3.53  Further progress in reform requires streamlining of the institutional framework for
privatization. Legislation under the Master Plan proposes to merge the State Enterprise Policy
Commission with the Corporatization Committee, and is currently under review by parliament.
The existing legal structure for competition, intellectual property, foreign ownership and
securities will need to be modified. Thai law, for example, currently does not allow foreigners to
hold more than one-half of the total shares in privatized SOEs. Privatization proceeds are
likely to be substantial and will help meet the large cost of the ongoing financial restructuring.
However, the authorities are mindful of the weak asset prices in this depressed market and will
avoid privatization that involves "distress" sales. Where possible, strategic investors will be
brought in to gain access to international management expertise.
3.54 There are now approximately 320,000 state owned enterprise employees, with the ten
largest entities employing over 226,000 people. The government plans to establish a general
fund to compensate employees of state enterprises who become redundant due to reform and
privatization. The fund will be capitalized from privatization revenues, and may additionally be
financed directly by the state budget. The policy actions negotiated with the Government are
listed in the Policy Matrix (Schedule 2).
Investment Incentives
3.55  A process of loosening the restrictions on foreign investment is underway. This reflects
understanding of the need for foreign capital in the liquidation and corporate restructuring
process. Cabinet has approved increased foreign participation in 33 previously restricted sectors
and has recently approved lifting sectoral restrictions in such traditionally reserved service sector



- 27 -
activities such as printing, freight transport, and tour agencies. Other changes will relax
conditions on the foreign ownership of land and domestic labor hiring requirements of foreign
firms. These changes have been made.
3.56  Critics of the incentive packages offered through the BOI say that the packages include
poor access by SMEs, excessive tax expenditures, and unnecessarily complex benefits package.
BOI itself claims that it is pressed by other Ministries to provide tax benefits that really exceed
the authority granted to it under the governing act, to avoid the necessity of passing additional
legislation. A detailed review of the BOI programs is being undertaken by FIAS that will cover
the size and efficiency and effectiveness of tax expenditures. The report is expected in the second
quarter of 1999. In the LDP the government has undertaken to review the results of the FIAS
report and formulate a program of incentives reform for which will include changes in the BOI
and amendments to the income tax and customs legislation as appropriate.
Competition Policy
3.57  Industrial structures are shifting in both the financial and real sectors as a result of the
recent crisis. Ideally these changes would occur within the context of modern competition laws
and institutions.  While the mergers and acquisitions necessary to bring about effective
restructuring cannot wait, it is critical that competition policy issues be addressed as quickly as
possible.
3.58  The legislative basis for competition policy currently rests with the 1979 Price Fixing and
Anti-Monopoly Act. This Act empowers the Central Committee on Price Fixing and Anti-
Monopoly to ration and set prices and profit margins of "Controlled Products," and designate
certain activities as "Controlled Businesses." There are further provisions relating to monopoly
and restrictive practices. This Act is to be replaced by a new Competition Act and a Price Fixing
Act. The new acts reflect more modem concepts of anti-competitive behavior. The definitions
of abuse of dominance and price fixing and collusion have been made clearer. The allowable
practices for mergers and acquisitions have been spelled out and provision made for advance
judgements and appeals rather than the former practice of bringing suit only after the fact.
3.59 The new acts passed first reading in October 1998 and it is anticipated that they will
become law early next year. However, substantial efforts will have to be made to establish the
institutional capacity to oversee and enforce the new legislation. Enforcement responsibility
currently rests with an office of the Central Committee within the Department of Internal Trade.
Greater resources and expertise are needed in this office to match the provisions of the new
legislation. Consequently the government in its Letter of Development Policy has indicated that
it will, by June 1999, implement a program of institutional strengthening to provide the Central
Committee with technical skills and resources commensurate with the requirements the new
legislation.



- 28 -
B. FISCAL STIMULUS AND SOCIAL PROTECTION
3.60  Structural reforms outlined above are being implemented in a macro-economic
framework that, because of weak external demand, emphasizes the importance of domestic
demand in recovery. Given that domestic private consumption is unpredictable, fiscal policy will
be central in stimulating domestic demand. A fiscal deficit of 5 to 6 percent, net of financial
restructuring costs is to be externally financed. As real interest rates decline and real growth
strengthens, debt to GDP ratio would reach an acceptable 40 percent by 2002/03.
3.61  An increase in public expenditures would total about one percent of GDP. Of this, the
amount to be allocated to protect the poor would be at least forty percent. In a typical year,
composition would be guided by the extent to which expenditure items improve the functioning
of the economy and by the extent to which their benefits reach the poor. The need to inject a
fiscal stimulus, however, adds a further set of considerations for spending priorities, involving
the speed at which funds can be spent and the degree to which spending can be reversed after the
crisis.
3.62 The National Economic and Social Board (NESDB), the Ministry of Finance and the
Bureau of the Budget have assigned a high priority to expenditures that:
-  are implemented by the Government, consistent with the Constitution or other laws and
regulations;
3 alleviate social and economic problems of targeted groups;
D can be executed and disbursed quickly;
D the benefits from the projects should be received directly by the people and they should
induce higher productivity in the economy;
* are ready to be executed by capable government agencies;
3 are transparent and monitorable;
* will not lead to significant carry-over in expenditures in subsequent fiscal years.
3.63  The Government has taken two approaches to developing projects. Some proposals have
been made by the executing agencies and submitted to the Bureau of the Budget. These are called
"bottom up" proposals in the first round of the selection process. In addition, the Ministry of
Finance, National Economic and Social Board and the Bureau of the Budget have directly
decided "top down" projects.
3.64  Thailand's economic crisis has highlighted serious structural inadequacies in the
government's policy framework for social protection, and the urgent need to develop a more
robust and durable approach to social management of income risks. Key elements of the policy
reform agenda involve better strategic design and coordination of social policy, protection for the
poor and the elderly, social protection for workers, and improvements to the information base for
monitoring living standards in different socioeconomic groups.



MAACROECONOMIC PROGRAM
AND SOCIAL PROTECTION
MACRO-ECONOMIC STABILIZATION
POVERTY AND SOCIAL PROTECTION



- 30 -
Strategic Design and Coordination of Social Protection
3.65  The ad hoc evolution of social policy measures in Thailand has avoided large fiscal
burdens and unsustainable transfer programs, but the result is a patchwork of measures that could
be rationalized and improved. One example is the new child allowance benefit in which the
Government will subsidize those families enrolled in the new social security scheme, an
equitable allocation of government resources to relatively well off households.
3.66 None of these policy measures benefits the vast majority of Thai workers and their
families because they do not work in the formal sector. An inclusive and coherent policy
framework for social protection requires strategic oversight of the social policy agenda that cuts
across the interests of multiple government agencies. The government will establish a high-level
focal point responsible for strategic development and coordination of a stronger social protection
framework.
3.67 In the long term, Thailand should aim to develop a coherent approach to social risk
management. An example would be one based on a system of integrated individual savings
accounts in which people could manage minor risks of income loss associated with old age,
unemployment, and medical care. The role of government would be to provide backup support
from the budget for catastrophic losses that exhaust individual savings. The government will
establish a task force to evaluate the long term feasibility of alternative approaches, including
such savings based approaches for fornal sector employees, complemented by a central safety
net fund to insure against income risks suffered by other segments of the population.
Protecting the Poor
3.68  In the past, Thailand has successfully relied on rapid growth and full employment to
provide an improving standard of living for the population. However, in 1998 the economic
crisis has reduced per capita income and increased poverty incidence. Preliminary analysis done
by Kakwani for NESDB and ADB from the 1998 Socioeconomic Survey indicates that poverty
incidence increased from 11.8 percent in the first quarter of 1996 to 13 percent in the first quarter
of 1998, and from 10.6 percent in the second quarter of 1996 to 12.4 percent in the second
quarter of 1998. The worst affected region is the Northeast where poverty incidence increased
from 19.3 percent in 1996 to 22.7 percent in the second quarter of 1998. The percentage of
people in poverty in Bangkok, which was 0.6 percent in 1996, changed very little. The rural
areas of Thailand saw the largest increase in poverty from 14.9 percent in 1996 to 16.6 percent in
the second quarter of 1998.
3.69  With rapidly rising numbers of people in poverty, and the consequent administrative
difficulty of identifying all those in need, self-selecting participation in public workfare programs
have proved to be an effective policy measure to deliver targeted income support. Thailand has a
wide variety of ongoing rural public works programs. These will be expanded to generate
employment opportunities especially for the rural poor in the Northeast. Sufficient additional
budget will be allocated for this purpose, and its regional allocation will reflect the regional
distribution of the poor. In order to reach more of the poor, the design of current workfare



- 31 -
programs needs to be improved. Current programs have low labor intensities and set higher than
market wage rates. The Govermnent will take steps to increase the labor intensity and improve
self-targeting by adopting low wages. The effectiveness of the workfare programs will be
monitored through well-designed surveys of participants.
3.70 To protect vulnerable individuals who may not be able to work, the government currently
implements a variety of means-tested cash transfer programs including income support for the
elderly poor aged over 60 years, and for needy families. Both programs suffer from two
problems: (a) the unit value of the income support is substantially less than the minimum
subsistence requirements implied by the NESDB poverty lines; and (b) incomplete coverage of
poverty target groups.
3.71 Under the social pension for the elderly, the monthly value of the subsistence allowance
allocated in FY99 is 200 Baht per person or less than one-third of the poverty line for the elderly
(around 700 Baht per month in 1997). At this low unit value of 200 Baht, the FY99 budget
allocation of 763 million Baht would cover only 320,000 beneficiaries, or about one half of the
elderly poor in 1996.
3.72 Besides cash transfer programs, Thailand also provides a variety of in-kind transfer
programs including the low income cardfor medical care targeted to poor adults, and the school
lunch program for needy students in primary schools. Both programs suffer from low unit value
of the subsidy and mis-targeting of the poor. Additional budget will be allocated for these
programs. Sharp declines in income have forced many parents to withdraw their children from
school. Scholarships targeted at children likely to drop out have already been instituted by the
Thai Government. Adequate budgetary support for targeted scholarship programs will be
provided to help maintain school enrollments.
Social Protection for Workers
3.73  The labor market effects of the crisis have been profound. While the overall impact on
open unemployment has been modest, real wages have declined substantially. The number of
unemployed has increased - with 700,000 additional people falling into unemployment between
August 1997 and August 1998. Real wages have declined between 12 and 24 percent depending
on the region. The government plans to implement a fiscal stimulus package in FY99 to
strengthen labor demand, increase employment and halt a further decline in real wages.
3.74 Thailand does not have an unemployment insurance scheme to provide income
maintenance during periods of unemployment. However, laid off workers in the formal private
sector are entitled to severance pay according to recently revised provisions of the Labor
Protection Act of 1998. The amount of the severance payment is based on length of service up to
a maximum of 10 months' earnings. Because this is an unfunded liability, it runs the risk of not
bei4 paid or paid only with unacceptable time lags. An employee welfare fund will be
established to partially fund unpaid severance claims.



- 32 -
3.75 A variety of active labor market policies are being developed to promote re-employment
of laid-off workers through training and job placement services. International experience shows
that these programs need to be carefully designed and may not always be cost-effective. The
Government will establish a task force, with representation from workers, employers and
government to design, target and rigorously evaluate the cost-effectiveness of training programs
for unemployed workers.
Protecting the Elderly
3.76 According to the law, the Social Security Office (SSO), is scheduled to begin collection
of contributions for old age and child benefits as of end 1998. To fund this, contributions of one
percent each from employers, employees and the government are envisaged and this will increase
over time to the mandated 3 percent. The proposed pension benefit structure is not fiscally
sustainable, requires contributions from the government budget which benefit only 18 percent of
the labor force, and will result in lower wages for workers who have already suffered a large
decline in earnings. The optimal strategy would be to delay implementation of the pension
system until sustained economic growth has resumed and the scheduled benefits can be
restructured.
3.77 About 20 percent of SSO contributors currently contribute to tax advantaged employer-
sponsored provident funds. International experience shows that such provident funds could
increase the domestic savings rate, deepen capital market development and reduce excessive
leverage of the corporate sector. However, the existing provident funds are unsupervised and
unregulated. They offer lump sum refunds when employees leave the firm with no portability
across jobs, and no annuities. The Government will establish a task force to develop a robust
supervision and regulatory structure for voluntary provident funds and to improve the portability
across funds and employers.
Improving the Information Base for Monitoring
3.78  Better monitoring of changes in living standards in different socioeconomic groups is
needed to provide timely feedback to improve the design of programs to manage the effects of
the economic crisis. The government will allocate additional funds to support implementation of
the 1999 Socio-economic Survey (SES) with improvements to the questionnaire, and to conduct
an additional fourth round of the Labor Force Survey (LFS). Measures will also be taken to
improve the policy relevance of the SES and LFS by accelerating the turnaround time to 3
months.
Social Investment Project
3.79 The Bank, with OECF, UNDP and AUSAID as cofinanciers, approved a Social
Investment Project (SIP) in July 1998 to address urgently some of the early social protection and
safety net issues arising from the crisis.  The Project provides supplemental financing for
selected Government programs capable of meeting three basic criteria: fast acting interventions;
self targeting benefits to the poor and unemployed; capacity for rapid expansion without a



-33 -
decline in efficiency. Thus, the Project supports several short term vocational training programs
run by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, employment generating civil works in rural and
urban areas through the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration and the Ministry of Interior,
improved health services for low income users of public facilities through the Ministry of
Health, and other programs.  The Project also supports informal safety net services and
community based investments through financing for a new Social Investment Fund. Overall,
the Project is now disbursing through paticipating ministries, and the Social Investment Fund has
approved 200 first round sub-projects at the community level.  The Government's fiscal
stimulus program to be supported by the EFAL II loan will complement and firther expand
selected SIP financed activities.



- 34 -
4. BANK GROUP STRATEGY
A. THE BANK
Background
4.1   A full country assistance strategy (CAS) was presented to the Board on July 9,1998
(Report No. 18002-TH). The next full report is due in FY2000. The following section provides
a brief update on the progress of implementation of the strategy.
The Country Assistance Strategy
4.2   The thrust of the Bank's strategy focused on three critical elements that would revive
economic growth: renewed competitiveness of Thailand's productive capacity, financial sector
and labor force; better governance of public institutions; and more equitable distribution of the
benefits of growth across social lines.
4.3   Renewing Competitiveness. The Government must foster renewed competitiveness in
the private sector because it is the key to reviving high growth. Private savings must be
channeled into efficient investment, capital markets must be developed, and new options for
savings, such as funded pension programs, must be created. This requires a sound and stabilized
financial sector, and increased governrment capacity to set the rules for the market where it serves
the country's economic interests. It also requires a restructured corporate sector operating under
a modem legal framework and financial accounting system to improve market discipline.
Thailand must improve the quality of its workforce so that it can produce higher value, more
technologically sophisticated exports; it must also remove export infrastructure bottlenecks and
provide an effective framework for corporate restructuring.
4.4  Improving Governance. Thailand must ensure that its public sector has the capacity to
support development. It needs to strengthen macroeconomic management, improve public
financial management and administration, modify the legal framework to facilitate business
revival, and create an efficient public enterprise apparatus.
4.5   Sharing Growth and Ensuring Quality of Life. Thailand must ensure that economic
benefits of development are shared among all segments of society, especially the poor and the
vulnerable. Finally, sustainable economic recovery requires diligent attention to protect the
environment to ensure present and future quality of life for all citizens. This requires better
public expenditure allocations and environmental management.



- 35 -
4.6   The Government's commitment to these main elements of the country assistance strategy
remains strong, and the political basis for continued progress is intact. The Government's
coalition is stable, having weathered its first significant challenge in Parliament, and still
commands enough Parliamentary support to prevail on reform legislation. As the crisis
continues, concerns on the social impacts and stress on the social fabric have motivated an open
debate on social protection policy and the safety net, both in its formal and informal dimensions,
but notably without civil unrest or dangerous instability. This debate has links to growing civic
pressure for improved governance and anti-corruption, with benefits for many elements of the
reform program. Social impacts are evident and serious, but have not yet impoverished large
segments of the population, with only one million additional people below the poverty line, or
1.5 percent of the population. The Government's public engagement with social issues and its
commitment to do more to reach those most vulnerable to crisis impacts has proved responsive
and effective. These achievements in sustaining progress toward CAS objectives have not been
without setbacks and obstacles: political debate on the Government's recovery strategy has
intensified, and resistance to some of the reform measures has focused on perceptions of growing
foreign influence and control over decision making. Implementation of public employment
programs has lagged. For the future, there is growing concern that Thailand's informal safety
net, which along with a buoyant agriculture sector last year helped contain impacts on poor
families, may be reaching the end of available resources. Low food prices and localized water
shortages may depress agricultural performance in 1999 and diminish its capacity to employ
migrants and laid off workers.  On the whole, however, progress is satisfactory and
implementation is on track.
4.7   A vital underpinning to the CAS is macroeconomic stability. The fragile situation
reported in the last CAS has now solidified. The Thai Baht exchange rate has stabilized,
inflation has come down from 10 percent to 4 percent, interest rates have fallen to 10-12 percent,
and foreign direct investment has retumed to Thailand at record levels, reaching a total of
US$7.6 billion in 1998. On the financial front, the situation is mixed. Rising non-performing
loans continue to undermine the viability of the financial system. The restructuring of the huge
corporate debt is progressing slower than anticipated, due to lack of sufficient initiatives taken by
creditors and debtors. Bank recapitalization initiatives, while remaining on track, need to be
accelerated. Progress has been registered on the reform of economic laws, despite their political
ramifications, but the package has yet to be fully passed. Economic growth prospects are also
mixed. On the positive side, the external environment looks less threatening. Thailand's
economy weathered the contagion effect of Brazil's currency upheaval without serious
consequences. Nonetheless, the prospects of Thailand's recovery are inextricably linked to the
outlook for the depressed markets in Asia and the danger of a slowdown in growth in the US and
Europe.
Fine-tuning the Strategy
4.8   In the final analysis, Thailand's prospects for a quick and sustained recovery depend on
how resolutely the Government addresses issues of financial and corporate sector reform, how
ably it manages the social impact and how effectively it pursues structural reforms. The
structural reforms are aimed at strengthening competitiveness in the global economy, improving



- 36 -
governance within the country and better managing the distribution of benefits from growth and
the quality of life for all people. The overall strategy laid out in the CAS has proven robust as it
addresses precisely these concerns. Given developments over the past year and the learning that
have emerged from it, some fine-tuning of the strategy is called for to give greater impetus to
certain areas of reform. Corporate sector restructuring has proved to be one of the most
important and difficult areas where the Bank has been called upon to provide support. Skills
development remains a crucial task to renew Thailand's competitiveness and the Bank's role in
this area needs strengthening to help promote major system-wide reforms in education.
4.9  In dealing with the social consequences of the crisis, the Government's emphasis on
strengthening informal safety nets will need more urgent support this year so as to sustain
community institutions. Rural employment and water supply programs will be more important
this year as the role of agriculture as employer of last resort may falter, and implementation of
Bank supported programs in these areas must accelerate to meet the needs.  Targeting
government programs to those losing incomes as well as jobs is a major challenge as the crisis
impacts shift by sector, region, and employment group. Increasingly voiced concerns, expressed
by civil society over corruption, the quality of public services and the government's ability to
steer itself out of the crisis have highlighted the need to address more urgently shortcomings in
public sector governance, which has been at the root of the economic crisis.
Status of Bank Operations
4.10 The CESW and non-lending program are on track and require only minor changes to
accommodate the adjustments in the assistance strategy for Thailand described above. The
lending program for the first two years of the CAS is also on track and conforns to the base case
of three-year lending program of about US$3.4 billion, including US$500 million of guarantees.
In the current year, the Board approved the Social Investment Project ($300 million) the EFAL I
Loan ($400 million) and a guarantee operation in support of a bond issue by the Electricity
Generation Authority of Thailand (EGAT). A move to the enhanced base case, though possible
within the next year, is not yet warranted as triggers in respect of progress in the auctions of the
FRA, swift passage of economic laws, the establishment of regulatory agencies and the
acceleration of IBRD disbursements, are not ready for activation. The fine tuning of the
assistance strategy calls for some changes in the blend and timing of operations. A new
operation is being designed to provide technical assistance and capacity building support for
corporate sector restructuring. Work on governance will be intensified through a string of
adjustment operations, supporting public finance and public administration reforms. The next
education operation is being rescheduled to take into account reallocation of investment funds
under ongoing education projects and funding for education provided under the public
administration reform activity. Emphasis will also be made on building capacity in the country
for the establishment and implementation of a comprehensive framework for national
development being developed by the Government.
4.11  The base lending case envisaged up to US$500 million of guarantee operations. An
operation supporting a US$300 million EGAT bond has already been successfully completed. A



- 37 -
second operation is under preparation. Expansion of the program of guarantees will depend on
Bank-wide decisions on the enhanced use of guarantees.
4.12 The Bank continues to work closely with the IMF, ADB and the Japanese authorities in
coordinating Thailand's recovery efforts, especially in the context of the Miyazawa initiative.
PHRD grants and ASEM funding have proved to be invaluable in supporting the preparation of
reform operations, particularly in the financial, corporate and social sectors.
B. IFC
4.13 The International Finance Corporation (IFC) seeks to work closely with the Bank for
ways to contribute to the Bank's program for financial sector reforms and restructuring of Thai
industries for long-term competitiveness. In view of IFC's large exposure to the country and
prolonged systemic risks due to unresolved problems in the areas of financial and corporate
restructuring, IFC has concentrated on restructuring its portfolio companies. With the delay in
key policy issues such as bankruptcy reforms, portfolio issues continue to be dominant. IFC is
also looking for potential restructuring transactions for new clients. In the last 12 months, IFC
approved 2 projects for a total investment of US$30 million. In the near term, IFC's activities
will be focused on assisting the recovery process through the establishment of trade financing
facilities and corporate restructuring.
C. COORDINATION WITH IMF
4.14 On August 20 1997, the IMF's Executive Board approved a 34-month Stand-By
Arrangement (SBA) for Thailand for an amount equivalent to SDR 2,900 million (505 percent of
quota). SDR 1,200 million (209.1 percent of quota) has been disbursed upon Board approval.
Access under the SBA exceeds normal limits considering Thailand's exceptionally large balance
of payments needs, and it is heavily front-loaded to ensure that the external financing essential to
restore confidence is available as early as possible. In February 1999, the IMF completed the
sixth review of the program and to date has extended SDR 2.3 billion (US$ 3.2 billion) of the
total committedfunds under the SBA.
4.15 The Bank has been working closely with IMF in Thailand. Since the onset of the
financial crisis, the Bank and Fund have jointly assisted the Governmnent to design the
comprehensive financial sector restructuring program that is currently being implemented. IMF
has paid special attention to issues related to commercial banks, while the Bank has focused on
the resolution framework for finance companies and on strengthening the supervision and
regulatory framework for the entire system. As the reform program is widened, cooperation
between the two institutions continues and includes corporate restructuring and reform of the
legal framework and corporate governance, social protection and fiscal stimulus.
D. COOPERATION WITH ADB
4.16 Asian Development Bank (ADB) pledged US$1.2 billion to support the Government's
stabilization and structural adjustment program, focused on the financial and social sectors.



- 38 -
4.17 A Financial Markets Reform Program Loan (FMRPL) was approved for US$300
million in December, 1997. The FMRPL has the following specific objectives: (i) strengthen
market regulation and supervision; (ii) improve risk management; (iii) facilitate investor-issuer
access to the financial market; and (iv) develop long-term institutional sources of funds. A
US$500 million Social Sector Program Loan (SSPL) was approved in March, 1998. The
objectives of the SSPL are to: (i) mitigate the short-term impact of the crisis on society, in
particular the most vulnerable groups and the unemployed; (ii) initiate structural reforms to
enhance the competitiveness of the Thai economy through the development of human resources;
and (iii) reduce inefficiencies in the provision of social services. The Export Financing Facility
(EFF) was approved in March, 1998. The EFF funds pre- and post-shipment financing of
exports, the import of raw materials needs of exporters, and export-related plant and machinery
requirements. The ADB is providing a partial credit guarantee to the commercial cofinanciers in
respect of the syndicated loan, with a counter guarantee from the Government to the ADB. A
portion of the ADB loan and the commercial cofinancing will be re-lent by Thai EXIM directly
to sub-borrowers, and the balance will be re-lent by EXIM to various participating credit
institutions for onlending to sub-borrowers. The ADB is processing an Agriculture Sector
Program Loan (US$300 million) and a Higher Education Project (US$60 million) for
consideration during FY-1999.



5. THE PROPOSED LOAN
5.1   The proposed loan is consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy outlined
above. It is part of a two-year program of structural adjustment of the economy supported by
four single-tranche balance of payments support loans. The first loan in the series, the Finance
Companies Restructuring Loan (FCRL), was approved by the Board in December 1997 and
supported measures toward the resolution of the suspended finance companies and committed the
Government to comprehensive reform of the financial sector over the next two years. The second
loan, Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan I (EFAL I) while further deepening the
restructuring of the financial sector, supported measures to strengthen the corporate sector. The
proposed EFAL 2 loan will continue to track reform in the financial and corporate sectors, but
with a sharper focus on strengthening the competitive foundations of the economy, in areas such
as privatization and public enterprise reforrn, corporate governance (including legal reform), and
social protection (i.e. poverty, labor markets, social safety nets)
5.2   The adjustment lending program is a flexible response to the Thai crisis. It allows a closer
tracking of the evolving crisis to commit the Government to remedial measures, while remaining
focused on the needed fundamental restructuring of the economy. The program is being
coordinated with IMF, ADB and bilateral lenders.
5.3   The Government has taken several actions in fulfillment of the loan conditions in the
areas of the macroeconomic framework, corporate restructuring, financial sector, insolvency
regime and secured lending, corporate governance and financial disclosure, and privatization.
The specific actions are listed in the Policy Matrix.
A. LOAN SIZE AND FEATURES
5.4   Loan Size. A single-tranche loan of US$600 million is proposed to be made available
upon loan effectiveness, anticipated for March 1999. The Closing Date of the Loan would be
October 31, 1999.
B. CONDITIONS FOR BOARD PRESENTATION
5.5   Terms and Conditions. At the request of the Government, and consistent with the
country's external debt management policy, the proposed loan, in the amount of US$600 million,
would be a Single Currency Loan (SCL) in US Dollars, with a 15-year maturity, including a 3-
year grace period, at the Bank's standard fixed US Dollar SCL interest rate. A matrix of policies
supported by the Loan is attached in Schedule 2.



- 40 -
5.6   Disbursement and Procurement. The proposed loan would support the economic and
financial restructuring program of the Government described in the Letter of Development
Policy, except for items specified in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement. The Government will
open and maintain a deposit account with BOT. Upon effectiveness and tranche release, the
Government will submit a simplified withdrawal application to the Bank, against which the Bank
will disburse the loan proceeds in one tranche into the Deposit Account. Disbursements will not
be linked to specific purchases, and supporting evidence for disbursements is therefore not
required. If after deposit is made in the Deposit Account the proceeds of the loan and any part
thereof is used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement, the Bank will require
the borrower to either (a) return the amount to the Deposit Account to be used for eligible
purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
5.7   Accounts and Audit. BOT, on behalf of the Government, will maintain the accounts for
this loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. The accounts and disbursements under
the program will be audited within four months after the close of the fiscal year. The loan will
support the Government's efforts to reflate the economy with a special focus on expenditures for
social protection. The Budget Bureau of the Government of Thailand is finalizing expenditure
outlays to satisfy the Board conditions of the loan. A monitoring mechanism will be put in
place, including a focused Socio-Economic Survey in 1999 to ensure that expenditures are
incurred in appropriate program and income groups. In accordance with the loan agreement, the
Government of Thailand, at the Bank's request, will have the accounts audited and furnish a
report of such audit to the Bank.
5.8   Monitoring Arrangement. MOF and BOT will be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the restructuring program with the help of the Letter of Development Policy,
through regular reviews, and in the context of the preparation and supervision of other projects.
MOF and BOT will prepare a final progress report on the program within six months after the
closing date of the loan, and submit the report to the Bank.
5.9   Environmental Assessment Requirements. In accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00, Annex A), the proposed operation has been
placed in Category "U" and will not require an environmental assessment.
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.10 Benefits. The program of actions supported by this loan will be beneficial both in the
short and the long term. In the short term, the fiscal stimulus supported by the loan will
strengthen aggregate demand, provide employment opportunities and substantially bolster social
protection. This will help mitigate the distributional consequences of the ongoing crisis, and will
provide breathing space to a government committed to structural reform. The measures to
facilitate corporate debt workouts will also have the short term benefits of alleviating the credit
crunch, strengthening of economic activity and reducing non-performing loans of financial
institutions. The medium term benefits include the consolidation of the structural reform
program that began with the Finance Companies Restructuring Loan and deepened with the first



-41 -
Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan. The loan program will strengthen the legal,
institutional and incentive framework for decision-making by financial institutions and
corporates. The social protection measures supported by this loan include the development of a
medium term strategy to respond quickly to the distributional and poverty consequences of the
crisis.
5.11  Risks. The greatest risk to the program lies in misreading the current strengthening of
the stock market and the exchange rate as signs of enduring recovery. Although the market is
less pessimistic now than it was six months ago, capital inflows are still small relative to the
recapitalization needs. Non-financial corporations continue to experience difficulty in accessing
credit. The wrong response to the market's "wait and see" attitude would be to declare victory
prematurely and leave unfinished the reform of financial institutions. This might well start
another round of confidence loss. In particular, slow progress in reforming the legal and
institutional framework for bankruptcy and foreclosure would reflect on asset prices and the pace
of corporate workouts.  Another risk lies in heavy-handed intervention in the ongoing
restructuring of financial institutions or corporations that discourages market-led workouts and
results in a large fiscal cost. Among the external risks, further instability due to regional
contagion now seems less likely, although external demand remains anemic because of the
slowdown in Japan. The slowdown in China's exports and its implications for that country's
currency policy entails another set of risks. A prolonged slowdown of economic activity and the
resulting unemployment and income loss could lead to social unrest and political instability,
which would put at risk the reform program.
5.12  Fortunately, recent economic developments suggest that the risks outlined above are
small. The economic leadership is aware of the risk of declaring victory prematurely and is
managing expectations accordingly. The reform agenda, with a special emphasis on protection
of the vulnerable, remains a top priority and progress to date is satisfactory. The Government is
avoiding quick-fix remedies and is committed to modernizing the legal and corporate governance
framework for strengthening the overall environment for doing business in Thailand.



6. RECOMMENDATION
6.1    I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
March 25, 1999
Attachments



- 43 -
Table 4: Thailand: Overview of Key Financial Sector Institutions
Figures for banks and finance companies as Commercial  Finance   Specialized Financial   Total
of December 1996, SFIs as of March 1996   Banks    Companies    Intermediaries    (see Note)
Number of Institutions                       29          91            6             4,870
Of which Foreign                         14           0            0              N/A
Total Assets (million Baht)               5,627       1,812         842              9,030
Share of Financial System Assets (%)         62          20            9               100
Total Funds from Households (Deposits)    2,643         661         321              3,948
Share of Financial System Deposits (%/6)     67          17            8               100
Note: Total includes Credit Foncier, mutual fund management and insurance companies, agricultural and
savings cooperatives (estimated at end- 1995), and provident funds
Source: Bank of Thailand.



- 44 -
Table 5: Thailand: Macroeconomic Framework
1996       1997                 1998                           1999
Fourth    Fifth                Fourth     Fifth
Actual     Actual    Review   Review   Estimate    Review    Review  Projection
Real GDP growth (percent)                         5.5        -0.4       -7.0      -80       -8.0        0.5       1.0       1.0
Consumption                                      6.7        0.1      -10.7    -13.0    -13.0           1.7       3.0       3.0
Gross fixed investment                           6.0      -16.0      -30.4    -36.0    -36.0           0.5       3.0       3.0
CPI inflation (end period, percent)               4.8        7.7         8.0       4.2       4.3        5.0  3.5 to 4.5  3.5 to 4.5
CPI inflation (period average, percent)           5.9        5.6         9.2       8.0       8.1        6.4   2.5 to 3   2.5 to 3
Saving and Investment (percent of GDP)
Gross domestic investment                       41.7       35.0       26.9      25.4      25.4        27.4      25.9      26.6
Private, including stocks                      31.5       23.5        15.0      14.1      14.1       16.0      13.0      14.4
Public                                         10.2       11.5        11.9      11.4      11.4       11.4      12.9      12.2
Gross national saving                           33.7       32.9       36.9       37.0      37.6       34.5      34.3      35.6
Private, including statistical discrepancy     20.6       22.2       27.3      28.5      28.9        24.9      27.5      27.5
Public                                         13.1       10.7        9.7        8.5       8.7        9.7       6.8       8.1
Foreign saving                                   7.9        2.0      -10.0      -11.5    -12.2        -7.1      -8.5      -9.0
Fiscal accounts (percent of GDP) 1/
Central government balance                       1.9       -1.4       -2.7      -2.4       -2.4       -1.0      -3.0      -3.0
Revenue and grants                             19.1       17.6        15.0      15.1      15.1       15.8      15.8      15.8
Expenditure and net lending                    17.1       19.0        17.8      17.5      17.5       16.9      18.9      18.9
Overall public sector balance                    2.8       -2.1       -3.1       -2.8      -2.8       -3.1      -5.2      -5.2
Cost of financial sector assistence /2                       0.7                   3.1       3.1                  2.9       2.9
Overall public sector balance, augmented for the  2.8      -2.8                 -5.9       -5.9                 -8.1      -8.1
Monetary accounts (end period, percent)
M2A growth                                      12.7        2.1         7.0       8.0       8.0                  9.5       9.5
Reserve money growth                            12.0        0.5         8.8       6.6       6.6                  9.5       9.5
Balance of payments (billions of US$)
Exports, f.o.b.                                 54.7       56.7       54.8      53.0       52.9       58.7      55.7      55.0
Growthrate(indollarterms)                      -1.9        3.8       -3.3       -6.6     -6.8         7.0       5.1       4.2
Growthrate(involumeterms)                      -5.1        9.2        8.8       7.9        8.0        7.4       3.9       2.1
Imports, c.i.f.                                 70.8       61.3       45.1      41.5       40.7       51.4      46.8      45.0
Growthrate(indollarterms)                       0.6      -13.4      -26.5      -32.3    -33.6        14.0      12.6      10.6
Growthrate(involumeterms)                      -4.0      -11.6      -21.7    -25.8       -26.9       11.1       9.4      10.9
Currentaccountbalance                          -14.4       -3.0        11.5      13.5      14.2         9         11        12
(percent of GDP)                              -7.9       -2.0       10.0      11.5      12.2         7.1       8.5       9.0
Capital account balance /3                      16.5      -15.5      -17.1     -17.0    -16.7         -4.1 -10 to -12      -11
Medium- and long-term                          11.3        6.0        6.2       3.2        3.1        5.6       0.9       1.0
Short-term 3/                                   5.2      -21.5      -23.3      -20.2     -19.8       -9.7     -12.9     -12.0
Overall balance                                  2.2      -18.6       -5.6       -3.5      -2.5        4.9  -I to +1         I
Identified financing (net)                       0.0        8.0         5.6      3.5        5.0        3.1       4.6
Gross official reserves (end year)              38.7       27.0         27      28.5       29.6       35.0  32 to 34        36
(Months of imports)                             6.6        5.3        7.2       8.2        8.7        8.2       8.2       9.6
(Percent of short-termnexternal debt)          103        77.0      155.0     113.0     118.0      295.0      178.0    203.0
Forward position of BOT (end year)              -4.9      -18.0       -9.0       -8.0     -6.7        -7.0  23 to 24   -3 to -4
External debt (percent of GDP)                   49.9       60.7        73.2      73.2      73.0       62.7      59.4      58.3
Total debt (billions ofUS$) 4/                  90.5       93.4       85.4       85.4      85.1       79.3      77.9      78.5
Public sector                                  16.8       24.3       31.2      31.2      31.0        36.3      36.2      36.9
Private sector                                 73.7       69.1       54.2      54.2      53.9        42.9      41.7      41.4
Medium- and long-term                         36.2       34.3       29.1      29.1      29.1       31.1       23.8      23.8
Short-term                                    37.6       34.8       25.0      25.0      24.8        11.9      17.9      17.7
Debt service ratio5/                            12.0       15.3       21.3      21.3       21.4       19.9      20.1      20.3
Source: IMF
1/ On a fiscal year basis.
2/ Imputed interest costs of servicing the total stock of financial sector asistance, including off-balance sheet liabilities
3/ Including outflows associated with the closing of swap and forward contracts by the Bank of Thailand.
3/ Consistent with the elimination of al BOT offshore forward and swap obligations by end-1998.
4/ Data from end 1997 have been revised to include loans to Thai corporations, whose proceeds were not brought into Thailand.
corporations into Thailand.
5/ Percent of exports of goods and services.



- 45 -
Table 6: Thailand: Program Monitoring, July 31, 1997 - January 12, 1999 1/
1997                  1998                                                                                         1999
Jul   Aug    Dec    Jan    Feb   Mar   Apr   May    Jun             Jul   Aug    Sep    Oct  Nov  iDec   12-Jan
(in babt per U.S. dollar)
Spot exchange rote                                31 7   34.2   48.0   52 5   43 2   38.9   3S.6   40.4   42.2   40 9   41.8   39.5   36.8  36.1  36 7                36 4
NEER (increase denotes baht appreciation)         83.4   77.6   59.0   549    659    72.7   73.6   72.1   69.7   719    70.3   719    733   76.7  73.5
Fonardiexchangentae.one-month2/                   319    34.5   483    530    434    392    390    410    42.6   41.0           42    39.3   36.8  36.1  36.7         364
SNWappremium,one-mouth(in pencent)2/               6.0   13.0    06    120        82      95    11.6   22.6    114      3.4    4.1    0.6       05   -0.2  -0.3       -0.7
(In billions of U S dollurs)
Current accont balance, end-nonth                 -0.4   -0.4      1 1    1.2    1.5      1 5    0.9       1    0.9    1.2    1.1    1.1    1.3   1.3
Exports(t% elve-monshpercentchange)              7.9    2.2    7.8   -7.9    32         3.5   -0.1  -11.1   -3.1   -3.S  -11.4  .103   .12.6  -6.7
Imports (tsNelve-mooth percent change)           -8 7   -13.3          453.1   36.1   37.6  -39.1  -39 7   -35.9  -31.9  -38.3  -32.3  -24.8  -14 9
Netintemationainesenves/3                          1.3    0.8     66      62      7.4    9.2   112    11.4   11.8   12.6   137    14.6   17.26/18.4
Non-borroNed tesetves                               1.3    0.S    1.1   -0 1      I I     16     3.6    3.8    3.4    4.2    5.0        5 7    8.1  6/9.3
Gmss neserves                                     30.5   25 9   27 0   26.4   26 2    27.6   29.5   27.5   26.6   26.8   26.7   27.3   28.5  28.9  29.5               29.7
Financingpackage(includesAaDBandlBRD)              0.0    1.6    7.9      07      87    10.3   103    10.3   112    11.2   11.5   11.9   12.1  12.1  12.2             12.2
0.f.hich IMF                                             1.6    24      2.4    2.4    2.7    27        27      2.8     28     2.8     30      3.0   3.0   31         3.1
Ssvaps and firis- s, net stock                   -29.2  -23.6  -10   -17 8   -16.3  -15 7   -15 6   -13.4  -12.0  -11.3  -10.1   -9.7   -8.4  -7.6  -6.6             -6.1
Onshore                                         -10.1   -7.9   -9.2   -9.3   -9.1   -97   -10.2  -11.5  -10.0  -10.0   -9.5   -9.3   -8.4  -7.6  -6.6               -6.1
Offshore 4/                                     -19 1  -15.6   -8.8   -8.5   -7 2        -6   -5.4   -1.8   -1.9   -1.3   -0.6   -0 4         0.0   0.0   0 0        0.0
Spot fx intervention, cumulative sinc Aug-21 i             0.8   0.91    156    1 16   0.65   -122   -1.56   -1.56   -1.94   -2.43   -2 89   4 34  -5.95  -6 94      -7.25
(Pernent)
External debt rollover rate 5/                                     71      63     74      76      85     64      73      77      75     90      64    53    74
Foreign banks                                      ...     .    86    122        98     83      94      70     71      74      89    106      70    50    76
Thai baoks (exelding BIBF)                          .       .    5S      27      60     60      74      60      67     63      59      59     5S    75    74
Non-books                                                        33      21      47     81      77      61     86    105       5S      94     56    38    72
Interest rates
One-dan epurchase                                165    20.0   24.0   20.5   210    19.8   180    17.5   166    11.4    9.5           60      50    4.0   31         30
Overnightinterbank(mediaw)                       13.8   20.9   24.8   213    221    204    17,5   17.0   169    11.0    9,6    4.8    4.2    3.3   2.3               2.4
Lossst (most cwdimordty)                       95    19.8   160    165    15.5   150    16.0   163    168           3.0    8.3    4.0    40    3.0   2.0           23
Highest (leastc editsorth3)                   20.0   220    29.0   245    26.3   233    19.0   180    10.0   16.0   12.0    8.0    45    3.5   25                  2.8
One month Rtpurchasc                              13.9   20.3   245    22.4   21.0   21.6   18.1   169    17.5   12.6   10.5    7.8    7.0   6.0   5.0                 49
One month S,ap Rate                               11.6   18.6   14.2   176    130    15 1   17.2   28 1   17.0    9.0    9.7    5.9            56    5.3   47          4.2
Ten.earYaeikeeBondSpread(bps)                      103    137    446    452    296    249    270    298    386    414    911    715    479   355   348
Inflation (CPI based)                              4.9    6.6    76       0.6    8.9    95    10.1   10.2   30.7   10.0    7.6    7.0    5.9   4.7   43
Manufactuing Production Index (1997QI=100)       102.3   96.0   90.7   84 1   83.9   815    800   075    88.9   88.3   85.2   86.0   882
M2A(I2monthschunge)                                  4     36     21      3.6    3.0    3.0    3.0    22         44     50      67      8.2    7.9
(in billions of baht)
FIDF support. total valoe                         423    512    676    722    713    706    696    700    741    757    835    020    060   S09   094                 895
Boks                                              47    128    292    332    320    309    290    298    314    329    393    378    395    397   397               397
Of .shich: debt-equity swaps                                          8.      7     07      07      07     87      07
Thirns-three finance companies                     0      16     29      37      39     44      45      57      74     75      90      99    122    142   174        147
Ffti -eight finance companies                    368    360    355    354    354    353    353    353    353    353    352    351    350   350   350                350
Balance shett of the BOT
R rs,se mones                                    469    436    473    471    465    448    449    440    420    448    442    440    450   467   475                466
Net foreign assets                               973    778    630    596    570    586    645    578    536    541    527    536    570   586   508                604
Net domestc asseuts                             -505   -343   -157   -125   -112   -138   -196   -130   -108    -93    -85    -96   -119   -119  -112               -138
(SET index)
Stock market index                                 666    502    373    495    528    459    412    326    267    267    215    254    331   363   355                400
Source: Bank of Thtiland (BOT): and IMF
I/ All data arc end period, -nless otherisise noted.
2/ The flirsard rce is computed fmm the sn,ap premium and the spot (closing) qante. The swap premium is equivalent to a baht-dollar interest cte differential.
3/ Program definition: NIR = Foreign assets minus liabilitir to the IMF minus stock of ssap/fossard obligations
4/ Capital and exchange restricdons were lifted on January 30. 1998, and the onshore and offshore markets are unified.
5/The rollover rute is calculated an (1-(Ioan repaymenls - new cnedits)/amorfization duc)' 100



- 46 -
Table 7: Thailand: Relations with the World Bank Group
(As of December 31, 1998)
(In millions of US dollars)
IBRD       IDA        Total
Total lending
Agriculture/rural development             1,394.6      37.5    1,432.1
Education                                  384.3       54.5      438.8
Urban development                          181.1          -       181.1
Industry and Finance                       159.3          -       159.3
Transportation                            1,138.9         -    1,138.9
Telecommunications                         382.7          -      382.7
Power and energy (a)                     2,289.6          -    2,289.6
Population                                      -      33.1        33.1
Structural adjustment                     1,075.5         -    1,075.5
Technical assistance                        62.0          -        62.0
Total (b)                                     7,068.0     125.1    7,193.1
Commitments for FY 1998                         380.0         -       380.0
FY 1999                        700.0          -      700.0
(a) In October 1998, the Bank provided a partial guarantee for a US$300 million bond issued by EGAT.
(b) Of which $ 5,373.59 million has been disbursed.



- 47 -
Table 8: Thailand: Relations with the Asian Development Bank
(As of July 31, 1998)
(In millions of US dollars)
Total lending
Energy                                       1,632.2
Transport and communications                 1,214.5
Social infrastructure                          569.4
Agriculture and natural resources              409.1
Financial sector                               440.0
Industry and nonfuel minerals                   39.0
Total /a                                         4,304.3
Commitments for FY 1998                            850.0
/a Of which US$2,729.4 million has been disbursed.
Source: Prepared by ADB staff.
Table 9: Thailand: Interest Coverage Ratios of Nonfinancial Private Corporations,
1995-97 /A
1995       1996        1997
All nonfinancial corporations /b                              3.7         2.5         1.1
Agribusiness                                                3.6         3.2         2.5
Building and furnishing materials                           2.1         1.8         1.2
Chemicals                                                   2.8         1.9         0.7
Commerce                                                    6.0         7.0         4.8
Communication                                               5.5         3.2         1.4
Electrical products, computer, and electronic parts         4.6         3.1         2.1
Health care services                                        3.8         2.3         0.5
Property development                                        7.3         4.1        -0.3
Textiles, clothing and footwear                             2.6         0.2         0.4
Other                                                       2.7         2.0         1.2
(In percent)
Memorandum items:
Growth in earnings before interest and tax payments
All nonfinancial corporations 2/                             ...       -4.2       -26.9
Growth in interest obligations (in percent)
All nonfinancial corporations 2/                             ...       43.3        67.7
/a Interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) to interest
obligations.
lb Consisting of 65 corporations, which account for about one-fourth of the nonfinancial private
corporate sector's external debt.
Source: Based on information provided by Stock Exchange of Thailand.



-48-
Table 10: Thailand: Public Enterprises and Nonfinancial Public Sector Operations
(B billion)
1990/91     1991/92      1992/93    1993/94     1994/95     1995/96
Total Revenue & Grants        566.6        607.9        671.9      795.4       927.5      1,060.2
Public Enterprises             72.2        78.2         73.7        97.0      120.0        139.2
%                              12.7         12.9         11.0       12.2        12.9        13.1
Total Expenditure             470.0        564.0        642.9      730.9       826.9       960.7
Current Expenditure           282.7        322.6        371.5      406.8       454.6       503.1
Capital Expenditure           187.3        240.7        272.0      327.7       377.7       448.7
Public Enterprises             99.2        120.4        127.7      122.0       148.1       163.6
%                              53.0         50.0         46.9       37.2        39.2        36.5
(percent of GDP)
1990/91     1991/92      1992/93    1993/94     1994/95     1995/96
Overall Public Sector Balance   4.0          1.6          0.9        1.8         2.5         2.2
Total Revenue & Grants         23.3        22.1          21.8       22.8        23.0        23.3
Public Enterprises              3.0          2.8          2.4        2.8         3.0         3.1
Total Expenditure              19.4        20.5          20.9       20.9        20.5        21.2
CurrentExpenditure             11.6         11.7         12.1       11.7        11.3        11.1
Capital Expenditure             7.7          8.8          8.8        9.4         9.4         9.9
Public Enterprises              4.1          4.4          4.1        3.5         3.7         3.6
Table 11: Thailand: Operations of State Enterprises
(B million)
State Enterprises by Economic Category          Profits *                   Tax Contribution
(no.)                                        1995       1996             1995            1996
Power (6)                               45,669         55,264           12,635          16,446
Transport and Communications (16)        32,531        35,162           15,287          17,314
Manufacturing (12)                       5,429          5,562            3,911           4,452
Agriculture                              -152             -36                8               3
Others,                                  7,272          6,827            5,447           5,518
- including Lottery Bureau              4,612           4,765           4,297           4,338
Total (47)                              90,749        102,779           37,288          43,733
Source: BOT
Notes: figures in parentheses stand for the number of enterprises;
* before submitting revenues to Government and before corporate income taxes



-49 -
Table 12: Thailand: State Enterprise Capital Expenditure and Financing
(B million)
1992          1993          1994          1995          1996
Capital Expenditure              120,365       127,751       121,989       148,113       163,569
Sources of Funds (1+2)           120,365       127,751       121,989       148,113       163,569
1. Revenues                       86,238        92,927        75,408       110,845       126,944
- Net profits after tax           67,879        69,522        75,315        88,319        99,793
Plus: depreciation                26,877        32,759        36,881        40,713        47,379
Other revenues                   29,395        30,842        48,458        60,120        63,252
Minus: income remitted to         27,194        29,859        31,372        37,288        43,733
Government
Bonuses                            4,699         5,077         7,135         6,140         7,129
Other expenditure                  6,020         5,260        46,739        34,879        32,618
2. Borrowing                      34,127        34,824        46,581        37,268        36,625
Net foreign borrowing             16,233          -759         1,347         9,386        10,642
Net domestic borrowing            17,894        35,583        45,234        27,882        25,983
Source: BOT



- 50-
Table 13: Thailand: General government fiscal operations, 1996/97-1998/99 1/
Fiscal Year                                      1996/97     1997/98     1998/99
Actual      Estimate    Program
(In percent of FY GDP)
Total revenue and grants                                17.6        15.1        15.8
Total revenue                                        17.5        15.0        15.7
Tax revenue                                       15.5        13.1        13.6
Taxes on income and profits                     5.7         4.3         4.7
Taxes on consumption                            7.3         7.3         7.4
Taxes on international trade                    2.2         1.3         1.3
License fees and other taxes                    0.2         0.2         0.2
Nontax revenue                                     2.1         1.9         2.2
Grants                                                0.1         0.1         0.1
Expenditure and net lending                             19.0        17.5        18.9
Total expenditure                                    18.7        17.5        18.7
Current expenditure                               10.5        10.1        11.0
Wages and salaries                              5.5         5.9         6.0
Interest 2/                                     0.3         0.2         0.3
Other goods and services                        3.5         3.0         2.9
Subsidies and current transfers                 1.3         1.0         1.8
Capital expenditure                                8.2         7.4         7.6
Foreign financed                                0.1         0.3 .       0.6
Net lending                                           0.3         0.0         0.2
Central Government balance                              -1.4         -2.4       -3.0
Non-budgetary balance                                -0.7        -0.4        -2.2
Extrabudgetary funds                               0.6         0.3         0.0
Non-financial public sector enterprises           -1.3        -0.7        -2.2
Local governments                                  0.0         0.0         0.0
Public sector balance                                   -2.1        -2.8         -5.2
Financing                                                2.1         2.8         5.2
Domestic                                              1.8         1.4         2.7
Banking system                                     3.5         0.9         2.9
Non-banks                                         -1.7         0.5        -0.2
Foreign                                               0.3         1.5         2.4
Interest cost of financial sector restructuring          0.7         3.1         2.9
Fiscalized                                            0.0         0.0         1.5
Financing                                          0.0         0.0         1.5
Domestic                                        0.0         0.0         0.0
Banking system                               0.0         0.0         1.5
Non-banks                                    0.0         0.0         0.0
Foreign                                         0.0         0.0         0.0
Nonfiscalized                                         0.7         3.1         1.4
Financing                                          0.7         3.1         1.4
Domestic                                        0.7         3.1         0.0
Banking system                               0.7         3.1         1.4
Non-banks                                    0.0         0.0         0.0
Foreign                                         0.0         0.0         0.0
Memorandum items:
Fiscal year GDP (in billions of Baht)               4812        4845         4977
Revenue, treasury accounts basis 3/                  17.5        15.6        15.7
Expenditure, treasury accounts basis 4/              18.5        18.0        18.8
Cash balance, treasury accounts basis                -0.9        -2.4        -3.1
Source: IMF
1/ All figures based on GFS definitions, unless otherwise noted. The fiscal year is from Octobe
to September 30.
2/ For 1998/99 excludes fiscalized cost of financial sector restructuring of B 75 billion.
3/ Excludes grants.
4/ For 1998/99 includes the fiscalized portion of financial sector restructuring costs of B 75 bill
Excludes foreign financed expenditure.



- 51 -
Table 14: Thailand: Existing Official Financing Package
(in billions of U.S. dollars)
Signing Date   Loan Amount             Fifth Review              Total    Sixth Review
Date              Amount       Disbursement   Projected
to date
Total financing package 1/                              127 2(                            n A           1J 46          n .
Fund                                 20-Aug-97           4.00            18-Dec-98        0.14           3.18         0.14
AsDB 2/                              19-Dec-97           1.20   ...                        ...           0.60 
IBRD 3/                              12-Dec-97           1.50                   ...        ...           0.75 
Bilateral creditors 4/                                  10.50   ...                       0.35                        0.37
Japan 5/                             1-Sep-97          4.00              4-Jan-98       0.14           3.27          0.14
Australia                            9-Sep-97          1.00    Expected on Jan. 15      0.04           0.76          0.04
Brunei Darusalam                   16-Nov-97           0.50    Expected on Jan. 26      0.02           0.36          0.02
China                               29-Oct-97          1.00    Expected on Jan. 15      0.04           0.76          0.04
Korea 7/                            11-Oct-97          0.50    Expected on Jan. 15        ...          0.20
Hong Kong, China                    21-Sep-97          1.00    ...                      0.04           0.78          0.04
Malaysia                            15-Sep-97          1.00    Expected on Jan. 15      0.04           0.78          0.04
Singapore                            6-Sep-97          1.00    Expected on Jan. 15      0.04           0.78          0.04
Canada                             10-Aug-98           0.50    Expected on Jan. 15      0.02           0.36          0.02
Source: IMF
1/ The original program assumed disbursements of US$14 billion for 1997-98, although final commitments were US$17.2 billion.
2/ The US$1.2 billion comprises the financial Markets Reform Program (FMRP) Loan
(US$300 million) approved in December 1997; a social sector program loan (US$500 million to be disbursed in two tranches --
US$300 million in March 1998 and US$200 million in March 1999); and project loans (totalling US$400 million), including some existing projects.
The ADB has arranged US$950 million commercial cofinancing of a US$50 million export sector loan.
3/ The World Bank approved the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (US$350 million) in December 1997, and an Economic and Financial Adjustmen
Loan (US$400 million) and a Social Investment Project Loan (US$300 million) in July 1998.
4/ Excludes a US$500 million commitment from Indonesia which is not expected to be drawn in the light of the countrys economic difficulty.
5/ The loan amount is Y 480 billion, equivalent to about US$4 billion. Actual disbursements in U.S.
dollars may vary with the yen-dollar exchange rate.
6/ Converted at the exchange rate of 111 yen pr. dollar.
7/ In light of difficult conditions in these countries, no further drawings are envisaged.



- 52 -
Table 15: Thailand: Balance of Payments and Financing Needs, 1996-99
1996           1991                         1998                                  1998                          1999
Actual         Actual        First Half          Second Half               Fifth         Sixth            Fifth         Sixth
Actual         Fifth        Revised         Review        Review           Review        Review
Review
(In billions of U.S. dollars)
I. Current account balance                    -144             -3.0           7.0            6.6           7.2            13.5           14.3            11.0           12.0
Trade balance                               -16.1           -4.6            5.7            6.0           6.4            11.5           12.2             9.0            9,5
Exports, fo.b,                              54.7           56.7           26.2           27.1          26.7            53.0          52.9             55.7          55.0
Imports, c,i.f.                             70.8           61.3           20.5           21.1          20.3            41.5          40.6             46.8          45.5
Services and transfers                        1.8             1.6            1.3           0.6           0.8             2.0           2.1              2.0            2.5
2. Capital account balance                     19.5           .14.8         -11.5           -7.0           -8.8          -18.5          -22.7       -10 to -12     -12 to -14
Medium- and long-term capital                11.3            6.0            2.4            0.4           0.7             3.2           4.6              0.9           0.5
Of which: foreign direct investment (ne      1.7            2.7             5.0           2.5           2.8             7.7            6.7             4.3            4.0
Short-term capital                            5.3            -6.3           -5.5          -5.0          -5.2           -10.5          -13.3            -7.2          -7.2
Other capital 1/                              2.9            -4.7           -1.5           0.6           0.3            -1.3           -2.5            -1.7          -2.3
Forwards/Swaps                                0.0           -9,8            -6.9          -3.0          -4.5            -9.9          -11.4         -3 to -4         -4.1
3. Errors and omissions                        -3.0            -0.7            0.9           0.5           2.5              1.5           5.9             0.0            0.0
4. Net balance = 1+2+3                          2.2          -18.6            -3.6           0.1           0.9            -3.5           -2.5          -I to 1        -2 to 0
5. Changes in official reserves (increase-)    -1.7            10.6            0.4          -1.9          -3.0            -1.5           -2.6      -3.5 to -5.5    -2.5 to -4.5
6. Financing need = -4-5                       -0,5             8.0            3.2            1.8          2.1             5.1            5.1             4.6            5.8
7. Available financing = 8 + 9                  -0.5           8.0             3.2           1.9            1.9            5.1            5.1             4.5            5.8
8. Existing Financing package                   -0.5           8.0             2.8            1.5           1.5            4.3            4.2             3.3            3.5
Fund                                         0.0            2.4            0.4            0.3           0.3             0.7           0.7              0.5           0.6
Other 2/                                    -0,5            5.6            2.4            1.2           1.2             3.6           3.6              2.8           2.9
9. Identified new financing 3/                  -0.             0.0            0.4           0.4           0.4             0.8            0.8             1.2            2.2
(In percent; unless otherwise specified)
Memorandum items:
Currentaccountbalance/GDP                      -7.9           -2.0           6.0            4.0           6.2            11.5           12.2             8.5            8.8
Export growth                                 -1.9            3.8           -4.1           -1.7          -9.4            -6,6          -6.8              5.1           4.0
Export volume growth                          -5.1            9.2            13.2           ...           2.8             7.9            8.1             3.9            2.8
Importgrowth                                   0.6          -13.4          -39.0          -10.8         -27.0           -32.3         -33.8             12.6           12.5
Importvolumegrowth                            -4.0          -11.6          -33.1            ...         -20.8           -25.8          -27.4             9.4            9.6
Gross official reserves                       38.7           27.0           26.6           27.0          29.6            28.5          29.6          32 to 34      32 to 34
(In months of imports)                        6.6            5.3            7.8            6.5           8.7             8.2           8.7              8.2           8.9
(In percent ofstock of short-term debt)/    103.0           77.0             94            155           118           113.0         123.0            178.0         203.0
Source: IMF
I/Consists mostly of unidentified portfolio flows.
2/ Consistent with the agreed financing package and assuming that bilateral creditors disburse proportionally with the Fund.
3/ Includes export financing facilities arranged by the AsDB and JEXIM and disbursements under the Miyazawa Plan ($1.2 billion in 1999).
4/ Data from end 1997 have been revised to include loans to Thai corporations whose proceeds were not brougt to Thailand



- 53 -
Table 16: Thailand: Monetary Program, 1997-99
1997                                1998                              1999
Jun.    Sep.    Dec.   Mar.   Jun.    Sep.    Nov.          Dec.         Mar.      Dec.
Actual   Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual   Prog. Actual    Prog.    Prog.
Reserve Money                         514     422      455    451      445     445     459     485   470         490       531
Net foreign assets I/                833     804      622    595      541     534     584     501   600         517       537
Net domestic assets                 -319    -383    -167   -144       -96     -89    -124      -16  -129        -28        -6
Netcredittopublicsector            -255    -189    -178   -158       -16       0      55     111   144         213       299
o/W bonds issued for FIDF      ...      ...     ...     ...         144      31      78      96   139         172       200
Credit to financial institutions    261     199      297    113      132      82     125      59    66         -21       -47
FIDF credit 2/                     311     553      675    620      640     628     689     687   617         697       697
Indirect instruments               -90    -393    -417   -554    -555    -599    -591    -656  -578          -745      -772
Other                               40      39       39      47      47      35      27      28    27          28        28
Other items, net                    -326    -393    -285    -98    -213    -172    -304    -185  -339          -220      -257
Memorandum items:
Reserve money growth (percent)      29.8      4.4     0.5   -2.4   -13.6      5.6      5.8     6.6   3.3         8.5      9.5
Moneymultiplier(seasonallyadjusted)  9.0    10.8    11.0   11.0    10.9    11.1    10.9    11.1    ...          11.0     11.1
M2A (billions of baht) 3/           4721    4682    4823   4898   4929    5067    5104    5209    ...          5337      5703
Growth rate (percent)               4.6      3.0     2.1    3.8      4.4     8.2      7.8     8.0    ...        9.0      9.5
Velocity (Dec. 1996 = 100, seas. adj.)  101  100      99      98      97      92      92      91    ...         90        90
Total FIDF Support                   311     553      675    707      739     828     889     887   894         897       897
Credit                              311     553      675    620      640     628     689     687   617         697       697
Equity                                0       0        0      87      99     200     200     200   277         200       200
Source: IMF
I/ Including expected reserve losses, owing to swap and forward transactions of the bank of Thailand, consistent with the balance of payments;
at the program exchange rate
2/ Includes credit extended, and not FIDF equity holdings. In February 1998, a debt-equity conversion of 87 billion baht occurrend;
earlier program projections did not incorporate the conversion.
3/ M2A consists of currency in circulation and the deposits of banks and finance companies.



SCHEDULE 1
No. 0304/                                             Ministry of Finance,
RamaVI Road,
Bangkok 10400, Thailand.
February B.E. 2542 (1999)
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Subject: Proposed Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan II
Letter of Development Policy
We have seen a consolidation of economic stability since the letter of development policy
of July 1998 associated with the first Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan. The Baht
is stable, interest rates are declining, and the recession is bottoming out.
Our energies are now focused on reviving economic growth. The macroeconomic
framework, developed in mutual agreement with the IMF, is fully consistent with this
objective. Our strategy for economic revival consists of two mutually supportive pillars.
Given weaknesses in private and external demand, we expect fiscal policy to play a major
role in revival of growth. A front-loaded fiscal stimulus is being implemented to strengthen
aggregate demand in the short run. We are also ensuring that social expenditures are
protected and the poor and the vulnerable receive adequate support during the crisis. This
will be complemented by deepening economic structural reform begun a year ago.
Structural reform will rejuvenate the business environment to provide sustained growth and
a lasting improvement in social welfare.
FISCAL STIMULUS
To make fiscal policy supportive of aggregate demand, the overall public sector deficit
for 1998/99 is now targeted at around 5 percent of GDP for the general government,
higher by about 2 percent than our previous target. As agreed in the Sixth Letter of Intent
with the IMF, the key elements are:
* First, we have identified specific spending projects in the Central Government,
totaling about 1 percent of GDP, of which 40% is being directed toward the social
safety net and related labor intensive investment projects. As far as possible, this will
be foreign financed.
*  Second, we will raise cash spending by another 0.5% of GDP by ensuring full
implementation of the approved expenditure program and by preparing additional
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn,
President,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
1818 H St. N.W.,
Washington, D.C
U.S.A.
/social...



- 55 -
social expenditure projects for rapid implementation, to be identified and supported in
the context of expected new foreign financing.
* Third, the fiscal target accommodates a reduction in revenue of about 0.5% of GDP
from the impact of lower GDP and possible revenue measures.
Additional component of the public sector deficit includes the deficit of local governments
and state enterprises, which is projected to be 2% of GDP. In view of fast-changing
conditions, fiscal stimulus is subject to further modifications, if necessary.
STRUCTURAL REFORM
Financial sector restructuring
We are striving for a reformed financial sector in Thailand: stable and sound in the long
term, more efficient and conducive to high sustainable growth. Crisis management in 1997
and 1998 resulted in concrete policies and steps, which have partially restored confidence.
We have intervened in problem finance companies and banks. But our vision also includes
a restructured financial sector with well governed, well capitalized, core financial
institutions which are subject to market discipline; a transparent and well developed capital
market; a legal and regulatory framework that attracts investment and promotes lending at
acceptable risk; and strong supervision of financial institutions. The measures outlined in
this letter in support of EFAL II further those objectives. We are ensuring that reforms are
deep enough and are implemented soon enough, not only for growth to resume, but also to
avoid future financial sector crises.
Our strategy for restructuring the financial sector has moved steadily forward over the past
year. First, the Financial Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA) is systematically disposing
of the assets of suspended finance companies. Second, the restructuring and strengthening
of the remaining financial institutions reached a key juncture with the announcement, in
August 1998, of a comprehensive Restructuring Plan covering both commercial banks and
finance companies. Third, an appropriate framework for a sounder financial system is
being created by progressively upgrading the legal, regulatory and supervisory frameworks.
Thus we are continuing to build on measures supported by EFAL I to strengthen loan
provisioning, to assess the intervened banks and to develop a plan to enhance the capacity
of the Bank of Thailand to supervise banks and finance companies.
The market has responded positively to this strategy, as indicated by the recent stability of
the Baht, a more active stock exchange and declining interest rates. However, a sizeable
reform agenda is still required to consolidate financial stability and make the financial
sector conducive to high sustainable growth. For now, the environment remains
characterized by escalating non-performing loans (NPLs) and a slow uptake in bank credit.
Most Thai banks and finance companies are incurring heavy losses, in part due to high
loan-loss provisioning.
/Crucial...



- 56 -
Crucial for the long-term viability of the financial sector will be the aggressive
implementation over the next few months of the August 1998 Restructuring Plan-which
makes public funds available to financial institutions unable to raise private capital, and
provides incentives for corporate debt restructuring.  In addition to facilitating the
recapitalization of weaker institutions, we are committed to rapidly complete over the next
months the restructuring and recapitalization, based on established prudential norms, of all
the financial institutions - six banks and twelve finance companies-which were intervened
in the course of 1998.
It will be equally important, going forward, to complete the FRA asset disposition process,
notably through adjudicating claims to the creditors of the 56 closed finance companies,
including the largest creditor, the Financial Institutions Development Fund (FIDF). We
are also fully committed to complete the quick disposal of the residual assets still in the
hands of the FRA after the December 15, 1998 sale of financial assets. Finally, we will
ensure that within three months of purchase, our state-owned Asset Management Company
(AMC) has a plan for the management and ultimate disposition of the FRA acquired assets.
The recently completed third-party reviews of the FRA and AMC will assist us to plan and
implement this.
At the structural level, we intend to pursue further strengthening of supervision and
regulation of financial institutions, and in policy and incentive reform to guide the future
development of a sounder and more efficient financial sector, including an increased role of
capital markets in financing the economy.
In the area of supervision and regulation of financial institutions, we will continue efforts to
strengthen the BOT's capacity to supervise all financial institutions under its authority-
including commercial banks, finance companies and specialized financial institutions
(SFIs). The legal foundations will also be upgraded for the regulation and supervision of
financial institutions. We are already working on a new Financial Institutions Law, and will
seek Cabinet approval of the draft legislation by end-July 1999. The draft law covers both
commercial banks and finance companies, and includes authority for prompt corrective
action of problem institutions. The review of the Central Bank Act is ongoing. We intend
to introduce a new deposit insurance scheme.
By end-June 1999, there will be a Task Force comprised of all authorities currently vested
with supervisory functions-BOT, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Ministry
of Commerce, and the Ministry of Agriculture. It will establish a comprehensive
framework for the effective supervision of all financial intermediaries, including financial
conglomerates.' This group will have a two-fold mandate: (i) to make recommendations to
put in place effective supervision of financial conglomerates, and (ii) to identify and draft
regulatory changes required to ensure consistent prudential regulation and supervision
across supervisory authorities to ensure fair competition.
A financial conglomerate is a combination of financial institutions through cross ownership and control.
The types of activities, risks and licensure within such a conglomerate may include a commercial
banking, securities, fund management, insurance, finance, leasing and others.
/among...



- 57-
among all financial institutions.   The Task Force will submit its report and
recommendations by December 31, 1999.
A Financial Services Task Force has been established, and will work to ensure that the
ongoing financial sector restructuring fits into a clearly defined medium-term strategy for
the sector as a whole. The Task Force is expected to submit its final recommendations to
the Ministry of Finance by end-August 1999.
We are also reviewing the role and scope of activities of our State Financial Institutions,
and their privileged fiscal treatment. Where necessary, mandates will be revised and the
need for capitalization will be reviewed. To the extent that our Govermnent will use some
SFIs to enhance credit expansion in the real economy, we are committed to strengthen up-
front the financial condition and risk management capacity of these institutions during the
second quarter of 1999.
We are committed to increasing the role of capital markets in the financing of the Thai
economy. We have established a working group to develop specific recommendations to
deepen and increase the efficiency of the domestic bond market. We are seeking to reduce
funding costs related to the issuance of securities to refinance the FIDF. We are also
endeavoring to enable the private sector to raise financing without excessive exposure to
banks and foreign exchange risk. A deep domestic bond market will promote efficient
allocation of financial assets, facilitate monetary management and enhance financial
stability and resiliency against inflationary pressure. We will review possible impediments
to private sector purchases of bonds and will take steps to remove them. We are also
developing an action plan to reform the debt and risk management system of the public
sector. The BOT will begin to develop a comprehensive system integration for automated
delivery-versus-payments.
REVIVAL OF THE CORPORATE SECTOR
We have a three-part approach to reviving distressed Thai companies: (1) strengthen the
legal framework for insolvency and reorganization; (2) provide a more enabling legal and
regulatory environment for financial and operational restructuring; and (3) take procedural
steps to facilitate voluntary restructuring. The three measures, together, will facilitate
corporate debt restructuring and will result in prudent financial transactions in the future.
Current efforts undertaken with World Bank support as part of EFAL II, as well as efforts
planned for the future, build upon earlier initiatives associated with EFAL I
In April 1998, the legal framework took an important step forward when the 1940
Bankruptcy Law was amended to permit court-supervised reorganization of distressed but
viable companies. Since then, we have proposed additional amendments designed to
facilitate court-supervised reorganizations and debt settlements.
We have proposed an Act to establish a separate Bankruptcy Court and its proceedings,
which has been passed by both the Lower House and the Senate. Meanwhile, we are
directing additional staffing and material resources toward the courts and the Ministry of
/justice...



- 58 -
Justice's Business Restructuring Office to provide greater institutional capacity for court-
supervised reorganization or liquidation. In all these efforts, our intent is not to force
Liistressed companies into court supervision, bankruptcy, or foreclosure, but rather to
encourage viable debtors to cooperate with their creditors in negotiating voluntary
workouts.
Our efforts to strengthen the legal framework also include additional steps to promote
secured lending and to create a Credit Bureau. To facilitate the use and enforcement of
security interests and the extension of secured lending to additional asset classes, by mid-
1999 we will review amendments to the Civil and Commercial Code and requirements for
an improved centralized registry for secured interests. A Credit Bureau open to Thai and
foreign banks, finance companies, and trade vendors should be established.  This will
strengthen prudent financial transactions and provides a form of protection from strategic
default behavior. To support this reform, our Cabinet approved draft legislation for the
establishment of the Credit Bureau.
We have created an enabling environment more conducive to financial and operational
restructuring. Building on the reform measures of EFAL I, we have introduced temporary
tax relief, which constitutes a major incentive for debtors, and creditors to restructure
troubled debt by year-end 1999. As part of our program, announced on August 14th 1998
for financial sector restructuring, we have linked the use of public funds for Tier 2 bank
recapitalization to demonstrable progress in corporate debt restructuring and to increased
business lending. We have taken several other initiatives-including replacement of the
Alien Business Law with a new Law on Foreign Investrnent and liberalization of the Land
Law and Condominium Act-to make it easier and more profitable for companies to sell
non-core assets and redeploy business assets to more productive uses.
Additionally, there have been steps to facilitate debt/equity conversions and further tax
measures to promote corporate restructuring. Given the magnitude of business borrowings,
many voluntary or court-supervised reorganizations may necessarily involve conversions of
corporate debt into equity. To support this possibility, the Bank of Thailand (BOT) has
issued a regulation to enable Thai banks to establish and operate private asset management
companies. Also a public-private sector Working Group has been formed to identify and
address legal/regulatory impediments to the efficient sale of distressed debt, sale of
converted equity, or management of converted equity on behalf of financial institutions.
Finally, a Ministry of Finance Working Group has been reconvened to review and address
any remaining tax disincentives to corporate mergers and acquisitions.
Procedural steps undertaken with World Bank support to promote voluntary corporate
restructuring include establishment of a Corporate Debt Restructuring Advisory Committee
(CDRAC) and promulgation of principles to guide voluntary restructuring. Established
under BOT auspices, CDRAC includes representatives from the main associations
of creditors and debtors.  CDRAC  has played an important role in encouraging
creditors and   debtors  to  pursue   voluntary   workouts and in  identifying
legal/regulatory impediments to corporate  restructuring.  In addition, CDRAC has
/developed...



- 59 -
developed and promulgated the Frameworkfor Corporate Restructuring in Thailand which
encourages voluntary workouts for viable debtors so as to minimize losses to all parties,
avoid unnecessary liquidations, and preserve jobs and productive capacity.
The BOT - with technical assistance from the World Bank-is upgrading its system for
monitoring business distress. Starting with new procedures for bank reporting, this
monitoring system provides a more complete, accurate, and timely picture of the extent of
NPLs and progress in troubled debt restructuring; encourages a more efficient sequencing
of voluntary workout efforts; and facilitates the convening of negotiations between debtors
and creditors in a timely manner.
As the pace of corporate restructuring accelerates, differences may arise among various
financial institution creditors. The BOT has encouraged Thai banks and finance companies
as well as foreign lenders operating in Thailand to develop their own arbitration
mechanisms for resolving any inter-creditor differences.
Lastly, we are more actively pursuing corporate restructuring in cases where state-owned
financial institutions (e.g., intervened banks) are important creditors. Thus, our emphasis
has shifted from simply selling the assets of intervened finance companies to promoting
market-based restructuring of distressed but viable Thai companies.
STRENGTHENING COMPETITIVENESS
Financial accountability and corporate governance
Our strategy for corporate governance will continue to focus on streamlining institutional
arrangements, enhancing reliability and transparency of financial information and
disclosures, and improving corporate boards' effectiveness and accountability to
shareholders. After conducting a comprehensive review of the standard-setting and
regulation framework of the accounting and auditing profession, we are seeking to amend
the applicable laws and regulations to set up an independent organization, to be called the
Thailand Accounting Standard Board (TFASB), responsible for setting accounting
standards consistent with international best practices. We are also making the Institute of
Certified Accountants and Auditors of Thailand an independent self-regulatory professional
body, and strengthening it. We have submitted the necessary draft legislation to Cabinet for
approval.
We are also taking several measures to improve the quality and reliability of fmancial
information, to ensure greater transparency and facilitate comparability with international
best practice. We are ensuring that financial statements of listed companies, and non-listed
public companies, banks, and other financial institutions with assets in excess of 1 billion
Baht, will be prepared and audited in accordance with international practices beginning
with the year 1999.  We have taken necessary measures to delete inactive limited
companies from the registration files. Furthermore, we are developing new specific rules
on accounting, external auditing, and financial disclosures for banks, finance companies
and SFIs by BOT.
/As....



- 60 -
As part of the comprehensive strategy to improve corporate governance, we are taking
measures to (a) strengthen the financial oversight role of the Board of Directors of
companies, (b) improve accountability of the Boards, Management, and Minority
Shareholder Rights of public companies and (c) rationalize the regulatory framework for
enforcement of laws and regulations by the SET, SEC, MOC, BOT, and MOF related to
public companies.
Privatization and Competition policy
Our program for privatization is on track. We have already submitted a draft
Corporatization Law to the Parliament. Independent regulatory bodies will be established,
with transparent procedures, to protect consumer interests in preparation for privatization in
the water, telecom, energy and transportation sectors. We expect to submit to Parliament
the regulatory legislation for telecommunications. In order to strengthen the organizational
structure for privatization, we are appointing members of standing committees at the State
Enterprise Policy Commission with the responsibility to oversee and implement
privatization in each sector.
In recognition of the rapid changes in the financial and the real sectors, and the new
industry structures that are likely to appear after the crisis, we are designing a solid
legislative framework on price fixing and anti-competition practices. A program for
institutional development is also being undertaken to match the changes in competition
legislation.
POVERTY AND SOCIAL PROTECTION
Strategic design and coordination of social policy
The economic crisis has deepened the social impact on the poor and vulnerable. At the
community level, social support mechanisms are under stress. The Social Investment
Fund, established in 1998 with Bank support, will introduce a temporary facility to finance
social assistance transfers through community-level organizations to the most vulnerable
who are unable to provide for themselves during the crisis period.
The crisis also provides an opportunity to improve the strategic design and coordination of
social policy. We are taking steps to strengthen the institutional framework for high-level
integration of the social policy agenda. A coherent social policy framework requires
coordination across* multiple core and line ministries. The Council of Social Ministers
(National Social Policy Committee) has been assigned, under the direct leadership of the
Prime Minister, to develop and implement a coherent policy for social protection.
In order to strengthen the technical capacity of NESDB to perform the social policy
secretariat function, we will (a) assign a strong and effective management team for the
technical secretariat; (b) assign personnel with expertise in economic analysis of social
policy to staff the technical secretariat; (c) prepare a focused and time-bound work plan to
develop concrete options for social policy reform; and (d) identify staff and implement
advanced training in critical areas.
/Old...



- 61 -
Old-age pension and family allowances system
We are committed to implementing a Social Security system that is equitable, efficient, and
fiscally sustainable. In the short term, to reduce the burden of employers and employees
during the crisis, we are revising contribution rates to the old-age fund and the family
allowances fund of the Social Security Office: (a) for the old-age fund, 1 percent each from
the employers and from the employees for a period of 2 years; and (b) for the family
allowances fund, 1 percent from the Government.
We are appointing a high-level task force with membership from MOF, SEC, MOL, SSO
and DPW to evaluate the existing social security system, and develop options for
implementing an integrated pension system, which would overcome the shortcomings of
present schemes. By April 30, 1999 the high level task force will begin a process of
consultations of the proposals in a tri-partite setting (labor, industry, and Government).
Based on these consultations and consultants' report scheduled to be completed in October
1999, the task force will submit to the Cabinet its recommendations to reform the SSO old-
age and family allowances schemes with a view to making them more equitable, efficient
and financially sustainable. By December 31, 1999, on the basis of the Cabinet's approval,
the high-level task force will prepare and announce an Action Plan for developing and
implementing an integrated old-age pension system, including the development of a multi-
pillar system.
Protecting the poor
We are designing the fiscal stimulus to expand substantially public expenditure on
antipoverty programs. Such expenditures would be quick-disbursing and administratively
simple to implement. Specifically, to provide temporary employment to those seeking low
wage work, we have, with mutual agreement with the Bank, a) adopted and made public
revised criteria for public workfare programs, including: (i) set unskilled labor intensity of
at least 30 percent on average; (ii) set wage level for unskilled labor close to applicable
rates in rural areas; and (iii) target by region the distribution of workfare budget resources
using poverty incidence as a key criterion; and (b) prepared plans for monitoring and
evaluation of the workfare programs.
The crisis has hurt vulnerable groups such as the elderly poor and poor families with
children. We have therefore decided to expand means-tested cash and in-kind transfer
programs to protect the well being of such vulnerable groups and provide them adequate
and assured income support. We have adopted a policy of increased coverage, for: (i) the
transfer programs for needy families and poor elderly, and (ii) the in-kind transfer
programs.
Social protection for workers
Due to liquidity constraints some firms are unable to meet severance payments obligations
to laid off workers.   To protect living  standards of unemployed workers, we
/are...



- 62 -
are establishing an employee welfare fund to partially finance unpaid severance claims. We
are also developing a savings-based system for workers not covered by the Social Security
System under the Labor Protection Act of 1998. Severance pay has been given tax
exemption.
We are improving the cost-effectiveness of training and employment services for
unemployed workers. A task force comprising workers, employers and government
officials to design, target, and evaluate cost-effective training and employment services for
unemployed workers (including demand-side vouchers and income contingent loans).
Protecting the elderly
We are strengthening voluntary provident funds for private employees. The existing
provident funds are unsupervised and unregulated; they offer lump sum refunds to
departing employees, and they lack annuities and portability between jobs. We are
establishing a task force for voluntary provident funds to develop robust supervision and
regulatory structure and to improve their portability across firms.
To improve the SSO database to support efficient administration of existing SSO benefits,
or extension thereof, we are (a) removing excess records; (b) correcting mis-recording of
contribution collections; and (c) attaching the 13 digit identifier to each record.
Improving the information base for monitoring
The crisis has highlighted the need for information that is both timely and policy relevant to
improve the speed and quality of public policy response so as to mitigate the hardship
among the poor, and to improve the monitoring of implemented programs. To enhance the
policy relevance of the existing household and income survey and labor force surveys, we
are allocating adequate resources to (a) implement a component of the SES in 1999 and
accelerate turnaround time to 3 months for updating the annual poverty map, and (b)
increase frequency of LFS to 4 rounds/year, implement appropriate questionnaire
improvements and seasonal adjustments, and accelerate analysis turnaround to 3 months.
Monitoring reports will be prepared on budget allocations and disburements on key social
protection programs.
With warm regards,
Yours sincerely,
Tarrin Nimmanahaeminda
Minister of Finance
(signed)



- 63 -
SCHEDULE 2: THE POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                            BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                       LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY             I
I. MACROECONOMIC AND FISCAL
1. Fiscal Stimulus
Issue: Resumption of economic growth requires    The Borrower has prepared specific spending    Maintain an appropriate macroeconomic framework to
providing a fiscal stimulus to the economy.       projects totaling about one percent (1%) of gross   support a demand stimulus to accelerate recovery.
domestic product, and has allocated an amount ofI
Objectives: Increase aggregate demand via expansion    aoutfr pero cet (n0%) oflsaid anmount to
of ubicexenitue roras.about forty percent (40%) of said amount toI
expenditures  to  protect the  poor, including
expenditures on: (a) public workfare, and (b)
means-tested cash transfer and in-kind transfer.
The Borrower has adopted a program  to make
more credit available to corporate entities carrying
out government contracts.
11. FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
1. MANAGING PROBLEM INSTITUTIONS
1. Orderly Resolution of the 56 Closed Finance Compnanies
Issue: The FRA needs to finalize the sale of assets of   Independent experts of international standing selected    Within three months of the purchase of assets from the
the 56 finance companies. The AMC is expected to   by MOF have completed a satisfactory review of the    FRA, the AMC  will prepare  a plan  for the
take part in the sale as a bidder of last resort, and    FRA and of the AMC.                        management and ultimate disposition of these assets.
needs to have capacity to fulfill this role.      The FRA has completed the third round of auction    As quickly as possible, the FRA will have initiated the
Objectives: Continue showing concrete progress in   of core financial assets and has formulated an    process of adjudication of claims to creditors.
the resolution of FCs which have been taken over, so    action plan to deal with residual assets.
as to enhance confidence of the domestic and    The FRA has finalized and communicated to creditors
international markets.                            the procedures for submitting and adjudicating claims.



- 64 -
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                           BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                       LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Restructuring and recapitalization of the Core Financial Institutions
Issue: The authorities must continue to take timely    The BOT has approved:                       By the second quarter of 1999.
action against the weakest financial institutions.  *  a time-bound plan for the consolidation of the    *   KTT will have completed full integration of the
Program:  Continued  implementation  of  loan       twelve finance companies into KTT, and for the     intervened  finance  companies  and  UBB,
classification and provisioning standards in line with  subsequent consolidation of KTT with UBB;      including recapitalization of the combined entity
best international practices, with intervention and    * a  plan  for  the  recapitalization  of  the  after full provisioning; and
resolution of nonviable institutions.               consolidated KTB                               *   The Government will have completed  the
The Bank of Thailand has signed Memoranda of         operational restructuring and recapitalization of
Understanding with all banks and finance companies   KTB after the full provisioning.
needing to raise additional capital through June 1999.    By the second quarter of 1999, FBCB license will
have been revoked.
BOT will have developed an operational restructuring
plan for the combined KTB, which should include   By the third quarter of 1999, RAB will have been
steps toward its privatization within two years.  privatized.
By the fourth quarter of 1999, winning bids will have
been selected for the privatization of BMB and SCIB.
2. STRENGTHENING THE FINANCIAL SECTOR STRUCTURE
1. Strategyfor thefuture offinancial services (see also 2.3 and 3.1)
Issue: The Government needs to address the broader   The Financial Services Task Force (FSTF) has been  By May 31, 1999, the FSTF will have:
structural problems preventing the financial sector   established.                                 *   Identified, with assistance from the Bank, the
from acting as a prudent and efficient intermediary of                                                 issues to be addressed to achieve a sound and
savings.                                                                                               efficient financial sector, and
Objectives: Identify and implement reforms needed to                                               e   Reviewed the interim  report, prepared with
ensure that the financial sector is safe, sound, efficient                                             assistance from the Bank, on upgrading financial
in pricing and delivering financial services.                                                          sector policies and infrastructure.
By August 31, 1999, the Task Force will submit its
final recommendations to the MOF, based on the final
report prepared with Bank assistance.



- 65 -
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                             BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Capital market development
Issue: The bond market needs to be developed to    The Working Group for Domestic Bond Market   The Working Group will take measures to remove
ensure the successful placement of Government bond    Development has identified areas that need to be    possible impediments to private sector purchases of
issues.                                            addressed to deepen the government bond market and    bonds, and will establish an action plan to reform the
Objectives: Lay the foundation of a sustainable bond    has   established   Task   Forces  to   develop    debt and risk management system of the public sector.
market with sufficient breadth and depth to facilitate   recommendations on each identified issue.     BOT will start to develop a comprehensive system
the raising of capital by the private sector, facilitate the                                           integration for automated delivery-versus-payments.
conduct of monetary policy, and enhance systemic
stability and growth.                                                                                                                                    l
3. Specialized Financial Institutions (SFls)
Issue: Preliminary  assessments of the financial    On-site examinations have been initiated in all SFIs    By May 31, 1999, MOF will adopt a time-bound
operations of the SFIs indicate the need to upgrade    under BOT supervision.                          action plan, to strengthen the financial condition and
their risk management capacity and internal controls.  BOT has adopted a preliminary action plan to enable it   risk management capacity of those SFIs which will be
Objectives: Strengthen the financial operations of the   to  carry  out effectively  its  new  supervisory    used for enhancing credit expansion
SFIs, which play a major role in the Thai financial   responsibility over SFls.                        By September 30, 1999:
system. Evaluate role and mandate of SFIs in view of                                                   * MOF will have confirmed or revised the role and
the current transformations in the financial system.                                                      scope of each SFI's activities and their fiscal
treatment.
 the Borrower will review the capitalization needs of
the SFIs based on BOT examinations.
l  BOT will have adopted a detailed time-bound
action plan for the supervision of SFIs. The plan
will include deadlines for the preparation and
submission of appropriate amendments to the law
and the issuance of enhanced prudential rules.
3. ENHANCING THE REGULATORY AND SUPERVISORY REGIME
1. A comprehensive supervision framework
Issue: Financial institutions are currently supervised                                                 By June 30, 1999, MOF will have established a Task
by several agencies. This approach can result in gaps                                                  Force of all supervisory authorities whose purpose is
in the supervisory process and inconsistent decisions                                                  to identify and draft those regulatory changes required
regarding the supervision of financial functions.                                                      to supervise financial conglomerates effectively and
|eObjectives: Harmonize prudential regulations and                                                     ensure consistency in the prudential regulation and
supervision  to  promote  fair competition   ang                                                       supervision of all financial institutions.  The Task
different financial institutions and the soundness of the                                              Force will submit its report and recommendations by
i rentor.  inancial institutions and the soundnessoftheDecember 31, 1999.
sector.



- 66 -
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                            BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY             I
2. Strengthening supervision and regulation offinancial institutions
Issue: Banking supervision needs to be strengthened in   The BOT has completed a review  of the draft   The BOT will complete a review of the draft Law on
terms of both supervisory capacity and legal foundations    commercial bank and finance companies laws.  Central Bank by April 30, 1999.
for the regulation  and  supervision  of financial                                                    By April 30, 1999, the Borrower will have made
institutions. Complementing the work of Bank staff, a                                                public  the  recommendations  of  the  Steering
Steering  Committee  of international experts  is                                                    Committee of international experts, and its intentions
providing its own recommendations on these matters.                                                   with regard to such recommendations.
Objectives: Strengthen BOT operations and legal                                                       By July 31, 1999, the Cabinet approval will be sought
authority to support its mandate of supervision and                                                  for a new draft Financial Institutions Law (covering
regulation of financial institutions including authority                                              banks and finance companies) to strengthen the
to take prompt corrective action.                                                                     regulatory  framework  for financial  institutions,
including prompt corrective action.
3. Deposit insurance scheme
Issue and Objectives: Best practice mandates a                                                        Draft  legislation  authorizing  a  limited-deposit
limited deposit insurance scheme to minimize moral                                                    insurance scheme will be submitted to the Cabinet for
hazard and provide sustainable funding of financial                                                   its approval.
intermediaries.
III. CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING
1. STRENGTHENING THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK
1. Provide appropriate legislative and institutionalframeworksfor corporate bankruptcies and reorganizations.
Issues: The legislative and institutional framework for   The Borrower has taken the following measures to    Government will continue its review and updating of
corporate insolvency needs to be strengthened to   strengthen  the  legislative  and  institutional   the legislative, procedural, and institutional regimes
facilitate the reorganization of companies and to   frameworks  for  corporate  restructuring:  (a)   for corporate bankruptcies and reorganizations under
maximize recovery of distressed assets.           further revisions to the Bankruptcy Act B.E. 2483   the  auspices  of the  Bankruptcy  Law  Reform
(1940), as amended, have been approved by the    Committee with representation from the MOJ, MOF,
Lower House of Parliament to facilitate the process    Attorney General's Department, commercial banking
of corporate bankruptcy and reorganization; (b) an    community, private law firms, and others.
Act to establish the bankruptcy court and its
proceedings has been passed by the Lower House of
Parliament; and (c) the Borrower has adopted an
action plan to enhance the capacity of the Ministry
of Justice to expedite the processing of bankruptcy
cases.



- 67 -
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                            BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                        LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Provide appropriate legislative and institutionalframeworkfor secured lending.
Issues: Existing procedures for the enforcement of   The Borrower has taken the following measures to   In mid-1999 the secured lending bill will be submitted
secured rights by creditors are subject to delay. The    strengthen  the  legislative  and  institutional   to Cabinet for its approval.
types of assets that can legally be used by debtors to   frameworks for secured lending: (a) amendments
secure loans are limited to a narrow group of assets.  to the Code of Civil Procedure to expedite the
Objectives and Program: Facilitate the provision of   enforcement of security  interests  have  been
credit through a comprehensive legislative regime for   approved by the Lower House of Parliament; and
secured lending, including suitable procedures to   (b) to facilitate the use and enforcement of security
speed up the realization of secured interests,    interests and to create new security interests, the
Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower has adopted
an  action  plan  to  prepare  additional draft
legislation, including legislation regarding   the
establishment of an automated modernized registry
system.
2. STRENGTHENING THE ENABLING ENVIRONMENT
1. Facilitate information sharing among creditors on debt service performance by individual companies.
Issues: A  lack of information on debt service    The Cabinet has approved the establishment of a    By  July  31,  1999  draft  legislation  for  the
performance by individual companies increases the    Credit Bureau open to all financial institutions and    establishment of the Credit Bureau will have been
reluctance of financial institution creditors to extend    trade creditors.                           submitted to Parliament.
credit.                                                                                               Subject to approval by Parliament, the Credit Bureau,
Objectives and Program: Establishment of a Credit                                                     with authority for full exchange of information among
Bureau would improve lending decisions and help                                                       participating creditors (e.g. banks, finance companies,
limit the access of firms who choose to default on                                                   trade creditors and branches of foreign banks) shall
obligations to increased credit.                                                                      have been duly established and begun operation.



- 68 -
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                             BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
2. Facilitate debt/equity conversions and the efficient sale of distressedfinancial assets.
Issues:  Because of high leverage in the corporate  BOT has put into effect a regulation to enable the    A  Working Group, which consists of public and
sector, the exchange of non-performing debt for equity  establishment  and  operation  of  private  asset   private sector representation, is reviewing potential
will be frequently used as a restructuring instrument.  management companies,                         impediments to the efficient sale of distressed debt,
The  legal infrastructure  for such  transactions  is                                                  sale of converted equity, or professional management
incomplete, particularly with respect to the issuance of                                               of converted equity on behalf of financial institutions.
new shares to retire debt.                                                                             If necessary, by May 31, 1999, the Working Group
Financial institutions are restricted from owning more                                                 will submit to  the  Cabinet for its  approval
than 10% of the equity of any firm, and from owning                                                    amendments to  relevant regulations  which  will
property outside of their own headquarters and branches,                                               facilitate the disposition and effective management of
Furthermore, financial institutions are not prepared to                                                converted equity.
manage and dispose of these assets in a manner
consistent with maximizing recovery. The creation of
vehicles to acquire and professionally manage distressed
assets may considerably improve governance and
promote restructuring.
3. Eliminate remaining tax disincentives to corporate restructuring.
Issue:   Consolidation,  through   mergers  and    The  Working  Group  on  tax  impediments  to    Based upon its review of recommendations from the
acquisition, is likely to be a common feature of   restructuring has been reconvened to consider the need    Working Group, the Revenue Department will prepare
corporate restructuring.  Improvements to the tax    for improvements to the tax treatment of mergers,   any necessary amendments to the Revenue Code.
treatment of mergers and acquisitions may further   acquisitions and other restructuring transactions. This
facilitate industry consolidation and new investment.  Working Group has solicited suggestions from private
Objectives and Program: The Revenue Code will be    sector experts.
amended to eliminate remaining tax disincentives to
corporate restructuring.  Public and private-sector
experts would jointly identify issues and necessary
changes to the Revenue Code.



- 69 -
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                             BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
3. SPEEDING THE RESTRUCTURING PROCESS
1. Provide inproved monitoring ofprogress on corporate restructuring.
Issue: While the task of corporate restructuring    The Borrower has put into effect an improved
remains appropriately focused in the private sector, the    system   to  monitor  progress  in  corporate
task of monitoring progress in corporate restructuring    restructuring to enable it to revise the estimate of
is appropriately centralized. The monitoring provided    progress in corporate restructuring and provided
by  the  Corporate  Debt Restructuring  Advisory    monthly updates thereof.
Committee and Bank of Thailand to date has been    CDRAC  is supporting  improved  sequencing  of
incomplete, irregular, and inadequate to support a    voluntary workouts (e.g. encourage a creditor meeting
comprehensive understanding of the task.           within 30 days after a loan becomes non-performing)
Objectives and Program: A centralized monitoring    and continues to identify impediments to successful
system  would permit the setting of realistic goals,   resolution.
facilitate  an  efficient sequencing  of corporate    CDRAC   is  supporting  the  enhancement  of
restructuring cases in the private sector, identify    professional  restructuring  capacity  and  public
impediments and bottlenecks for timely resolution,    awareness of corporate restructuring through the Thai
and facilitate information-sharing between creditors on    Bankers  Association,  Association  of  Finance
debtor liabilities and debt-service performance.   Companies, and Federation of Thai Industries.
BOT requires creditors to choose to either continue a
voluntary  restructuring  process, court-supervised
reorganization, or bankruptcy within 90 days of the
initial meeting between lead creditor and debtor.
2. Develop an efficient mechanism to resolve disputes amongfinancial institution creditors.
Issue: As negotiations with debtors progress, serious    BOT has provided to financial institution creditors   If creditors are unable to devise a mechanism  for
differences among creditors may arise. Interests and    a sample arbitration contract to encourage the    facilitating agreement on a restructuring plan, BOT
sensitivities will differ depending upon whether the    development of inter-creditor dispute resolution    will review options, including the use of its own
financial institution creditor is, for example, secured    mechanisms  and  75%   voting  thresholds  for    authority  to  resolve  disputes  among  financial
or unsecured, domestic or foreign, and in a strong or    approval of restructuring plans.              institution  creditors that arise  during  voluntary
weak financial position. For various reasons, major                                                    corporate workouts.
financial institution creditors are wary of any BOT or
other official arbitration of inter-creditor disputes.
Objectives and Program: A mechanism is needed
that can efficiently resolve differences among financial
institutions in a workout situation.



- 70 -
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAM                             BOARD CONDITIONS IN BOLD                         LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
3. Develop a clear strategy concerning the position of the Government as a creditor or shareholder of distressed corporates.
Issue: Through government contracting and through    The Borrower will encourage state-owned financial
nationalization   of  financial  institutions,  the    institutions to exercise their role as creditor to speed
government is a creditor or owner of many firms that   up corporate debt restructuring.
are not performing on debt obligations to commercial
financial institutions. The existence of obligations to
the government should not result in delay of
restructuring of obligations to other creditors.
Objectives and Program: The Government will
formulate a strategy for exercising its position as a
creditor  to  encourage  and  speed  corporate
restructuring, and to eliminate delays to the process
caused by the role of publicly-owned creditors. This
strategy may include the supporting of the position of
lead creditors in the restructuring process.



-71 -
Objectives And Program              7             Board Conditions In Bold                         Letter Of Development Policy
IV. COMPETITIVENESS
1. FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
1. Rationalize the institutionalframeworkfor seting standards and regulating accounting and auditing practices.
Issue: A private-sector independent organization is   The Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower has    By July 31, 1999, the Cabinet shall submit draft
not responsible for the formal accounting standard-    approved a framework to: (a) streamline the    legislation to Parliament.
setting process. Moreover, there are multiple agencies   institutional framework for setting accounting and
that regulate,  supervise,  and  define  reporting    auditing standards and regulating the profession;
requirements. The  ICAAT, which  develops all   (b) establish the Thailand Financial Accounting
accounting and auditing  standards, is not fully    Standard Board as an independent entity with
independent in the standard-setting process and is not   authority  to  set accounting  standards, with
a self-regulating national professional body.      members from the accounting profession, business,
Obj s ad P : Sgovernment and academia; and (c) make the
Objectives and Program: Streamline the instittonal   Institute of Certified Accountants and Auditors of
framework for setting standards and regulating the    Thailand    an   independent   self-regulatoryl
accounting and auditing profession. Establish an    professional bodyconsistentwith international besto
independent standard-setting organization, to be called    practices  
the Thailand Financial Accounting Standard Board    P
(TFASB) consistent with international best practices.    The Ministry of Commerce has submitted draft
Strengthen the ICAAT's role in standard setting and   legislation to Cabinet for its approval.
regulating the profession consistent with international
best practices. An independent and self-regulating
ICAAT will be responsible for setting auditing
standards and regulating the profession.



- 72 -
Objectives And Program                              Board Conditions In Bold                            Letter Of Development Policy
2 Inmprove the quality and reliability of key financial information provided by public corporations to regulators, shareholders, and the general public.
Issue:   Accounting  and  auditing  standards and    Improved accounting and auditing standards for listed    New  specific rules on accounting, auditing, and
practices, particularly  in  the  areas of financial    companies have been adopted, as well as large non-    financial disclosures for banks, finance companies and
statement  disclosures,  loss  recognition,  asset   listed public companies, and banks and financial    SFIs in line with international best practices will be
classification, marketable securities, debt restructuring    institutions with assets in excess of Baht I billion.   issued by June 30, 1999.
and impairment of assets, as well as audit reports, are    This includes revision of standards for financial
not consistent with international best practices.    statement  disclosures,  asset  classification,  and
ObIectives and Program: Upgrade accotinting and    marketable securities, as well as issuance of  new
Objectives and Program: Upgrade accountig and    standards for troubled debt restructuring.
auditing standards to make them  consistent with
international best practices, and revise relevant laws    The plan to improve the quality of audit reports has
and regulations as necessary to require that financial    been implemented for listed companies, non-listed
statements of public companies be prepared and    public companies, as well as banks and financial
audited in accordance with such standards beginning    institutions. The implementation included a revised
with the year 1999.                                  format (proposed  by ICAAT) for audit reports,
consistent with international best practices.
MOC has deleted inactive limited companies from the
registration files.



- 73 -
Objectives And Program                             Board Conditions In Bold                          Letter Of Development Policy
3. Strengthen thefinancial oversight role of the board of directors of corporations by requiring the establishment of audit committees
Issue: The internal control and the related oversight                                                  Based on the review of existing requirements for the
role of the boards of directors of companies are weak.                                                 audit committees of boards of directors and internal
Audit committees of the boards of directors are non-                                                   control for listed companies, by April 30, 1999, SET
existent or ineffective.                                                                               will adopt a time-bound program to implement the
Objectives and Program:  Strengthen the internal                                                       improved requirements, including committees' roles
control structure of listed companies, banks, and                                                      and  responsibilities, to  a level consistent with
financial institutions and the related responsibility for                                              international best practices.
oversight of the internal audit function and selection of
external auditors.
4. Improve accountability of boards of directors, management, and shareholder rights of public conpanies
Issue: Boards of directors of listed companies and    The Working Group has submitted to MOC  its   If necessary, SEC  will issue relevant rules and
financial institutions have not been effective in   recommendations  on  appropriate  changes  to   regulations which do not require changes to the
monitoring  corporate  management  performance.   legislation and regulations to improve the appointment   legislation. By May 31, 1999 MOC will submit to the
Minority shareholders have not played an active role   process of directors, ensure protection of minority    Cabinet for its approval necessary changes to the
as monitors of corporate performance.               shareholder rights, increase accountability and liability    Public Company Act.
Objectives   and   Programs:   Strengthen  the    of officers and directors, and impose sanctions in the    By April 15, 1999 SET will have revised the
effectiveness and monitoring role of boards of    case of breach of duty.                              guidelines on the code of best practice for listed
directors and enhance shareholder rights.                                                              company  directors  to  a  level consistent with
international best practices, and will propose an
appropriate deadline for the disclosure of compliance
or non-compliance with such guidelines to be
mandatory under the SET's disclosure requirements.
5. Rationalize the regulatoryframeworkfor enforcement of laws and regulationsfor public companies
Issue: SEC  and SET  responsibilities overlap in    SEC has completed the review  of the roles and
enforcement of laws and regulations.                responsibilities of SET, SEC, MOC and MOF in
Objectives and Programs: Streamline and strengthen    enforcing laws and regulations related to public
Objectis frank  ogr   Sfrceamlineo lan wsteng       companies by SEC and submitted its recommendations
thegulamewons.  for enforcement of laws  and        on such roles and responsibilities to the respective
regulations.                                        agencies for adoption.



- 74 -
Objectives And Program                                Board Conditions In Bold                             Letter Of Development Policy
2. PRIVATIZATION
1. Regulatory Framework Legislationfor Privatization
Issue: Regulatory institutions in the water, telecom,                                                         The Government will establish independent regulatory
energy and transportation sectors are required purstiant                                                      bodies  for the  infrastructure  sectors  to  protect
to privatization.                                                                                             consumer interests and facilitate competition. Cabinet
Objectives and  Program:   To protect consumer                                                                will approve regulatory legislation for the water and
interests and encourage competition, regulatory bodies                                                        energy sectors.  The Government will submit to
will be established  to  oversee activities in  the                                                           Parliament for its approval regulatory legislation lor
infrastructure  sectors,  including  water,  energy,                                                         the telecommunications sector.
telecommunications   and   transportation.   Such
regulatory bodies will be based on the principle of
independence, providing  for transparent and non-
political  procedures  for  selecting  and  funding
regulators, as well as a process of appeals.
2. Organizational Structurefor Privatization,; Institutionaal Captacity Buildifng
Issue: T'he Government requires a clear, transparent,                                                        The Government will have created  an  effective
and  strengthened  organizational  structure  with                                                            organizational   structure   for   overseeing   and
technical  expertise  and  sufficient  staffing  at                                                          implementing  privatization  in  eacih  sector. The
appropriate levels to implement its Master lPlan Ior                                                          Government  will appoint  mmciibers  of standing
State Enterprise Reform effectively.                                                                          committees at the State Enterprise Policy Cotnmission
Objectives and Program: Strengthen the capacity of                                                            with the responsibility  to oversee and implement
the State E,nterprise Policy Commission anid the Ollice                                                       privatization  in  each  sector,  including  water,
ol' State Enterprises at the Ministry of Finanice by                                                          transportation, telecommnitiicationis and enterprises in
establishing a sub-committee structure in each sector                                                         other sectors.
to oversee the implementation of corporatization and
privatization strategies at individual enterprises.



-75 -
Objectives And Program                              Board Conditions In Bold                          Letter Of Development Policy
3. Corporatization Law
Issue: Privatization of individual public enterprises    The Corporatization Law has been approved by the
that have not been incorporated usually requires    Lower House and is being considered by the Senate.
complex case-by-case legal approvals that lead to
delays.
Objective: A Corporatization Law would establish a
clear procedure for initiating the reform, and eventual
privatization,  of  state-owned  enterprises.  The
Corporatization Law allows state-owned enterprises to
be converted into corporate entities and wholly or
partially divested to private owners. It also establishes
a streamlined committee structure under the Prime
Ministers' Office and coordinated by the Office of
State Enterprises in the Ministry of Finance to oversee
corporatization  and  privatization  of  individual
enterprises in different sectors.
3. COMPETITION POLICY AND INVESTMENT INCENTIVES
1. Competition policy
Issue: Rapid changes are taking place in financial and                                                   Complete program  of institutional development to
real sectors as a result of the crisis and new industry                                                  match the changes in the competition legislation.
structures are likely to emerge as the economy
recovers. New legislation to replace the 1979 Act
governing price fixing and anti-competitive practices
passed first reading in Parliament on October 14. The
new legislation reflects modern competition policies.
However, the institutional capacity to enforce the
legislation will need to be further strengthened to
make legislation fully effective.
Objectives and Programs: Ensure the establishment
of a solid legislative framework and an enhanced
institutional capacity to administer it.



- 76 -
Objectives And Program                            Board Conditions In Bold                         Letter Of Development Policy
2. Investment Incentives.
Issue: Tax incentives have played an important role                                                   By July 1, 1999 the BOI shall review the results of
in Thailand's investment promotion system for more                                                   the FIAS study on investment incentives offered under
than three decades. In response to the changing socio-                                                the BOI. The BOI will draft a plan for rationalizing
economic environment, the incentive scheme and the                                                   Thailand's incentive scheme and the role of the BO1. l
role of the BOI need to be assessed by also taking into
account the incentive programs offered by other
countries as well as Thailand overall tax regime.
Objectives and Programs: Rationalize Thailand's
incentive scheme and enhance the role of the BOI in a
broader context encompassing  work  other than
incentive provision.
V. POVERTY AND SOCIAL PROTECTION
1. IMPROVE STRATEGIC DESIGN AND CO-ORDINATION OF SOCIAL POLICY
1. Improve the coordination of socialpolicy
Issue: A coherent social policy framework requires    The Borrower has appointed the Council of Social   By May 31, 1999 an existing agency or mechanism
coordination across multiple core and line ministries.  Ministers (National Social Policy  Committee),   reporting to the Cabinet as well as to the Council of
Objec s ad P : Sunder the direct leadership of the Prime Minister,   Social  Ministers  (the  National  Social  Policy
Objectives and Program: Strengthen institutional   to develop and implement a coherent social policy,   Committee) shall be assigned to develop an action
framework for high-level integration of the social    with NESDB serving as the secretariat for said    plan to design social protection.
policy agenda.                                     Council.
The following measures to strengthen the technical
capacity of NESDB to perform the social protection
secretariat function shall be implemented: (a) assign a
strong  and effective management team  for the
technical secretariat;  (b) assign personnel with
expertise in economic analysis of social policy to staff
the technical secretariat; (c) prepare a focused and
time-bound workplan to develop concrete options for
social policy reform; and (d) identify and implement
advanced staff training in critical areas.



- 77 -
Objectives And Program                             Board Conditions In Bold                          LetterOf Development Policy
*2. Improve the design of the old-age pension andfanmily allowances system
Issue:                                            The Borrower has established, through internal    By April 30, 1999 the high level task force will begin
(a) The Social Security Act (SSA), as presently  administrative decisions, revised contribution rates    a process of consultations of the proposals in a tri-
enacted, has several flaws in terms of equity,  to the old-age fund and the family allowances fund of    partite setting (labor, industry, and Government).
efficiency, and fiscal sustainability, and imposes a  the Social Security Office: (a) for the old-age fund,    Based on these consultations and the consultants'
severe burden on employers and employees in the  1% each from the employers and from the employees    report scheduled to be completed in October 1999, the
present economic context,                         for a period of 2 years; and (b) for the family   task  force  will  submit  to  the  Cabinet  its
lb) Savings-based  alternatives  to   pay-as-you-go  allowances fund, 1% from the Government.          recommendations.
l(b) Savings-based alternatives to pay-as-you-go
financing of social security need to be developed to  The Borrower has appointed a high-level task force with    By December 31, 1999, the approval of the Cabinet
minimize adverse labor market incentives and promote  membership from MOF, SEC, MOL, SSO and DPW to    will be sought for an integrated old-age pension
capital market development.                       evaluate the existing social security system, and develop    system, including the development of a multi-pillar
Objectives and Program:                           options for implementing an improved and integrated    system.
Improve  the  equity,  efficiency,  and  financial  pension system.                                    On the basis of the Cabinet approval, a detailed action
sustainability of the existing old-age pension and                                                     plan to reform the SSO old-age and family allowances
family allowances systems, and reduce the burden of                                                    schemes with a view to making them more equitable,
employers and employees during the crisis,                                                             efficient  and  financially  sustainable  will  be
announced.
2. PROTECTING THE POOR
1. Increase public expenditures for protecting the poor
Issue: Fiscal stimulus provides room for expanding
public expenditure on antipoverty programs
Objectives and program: Antipoverty expenditures
should  be quick-disbursing  and  administratively
simple to implement
2. Expand provision ofpublic workfare programs
Issue: The crisis has increased unemployment and    The Borrower has: (a) adopted and made public
underemployment                                     revised criteria for its public workfare programs
Objectives and Program: To provide temporary    under the enhanced public expenditures program
lObjectives and Program: To provide temporary   including: (i) unskilled labor intensity of at least
Iemployment to those seeking work at low wages.      inldn:..usildlao  nest   fa  es
employment to  those  seeking  work  at low   wages.  30%   on   average;  (ii)  remuneration   for  unskilled
labor set close to applicable rates in rural areas;
and (iii) poverty incidence will be a key criterion
for the geographic distribution of workfare budget;
and  (b) prepared  plans for monitoring  and
evaluation of said workfare programs.



- 78 -
Objectives And Program                            Board Conditions In Bold                         Letter Of Development Policy
3. Expand means-tested cash and in-kind transfer programs
Issue: The crisis has hurt vulnerable groups such as    Under the enhanced public expenditures program,
the elderly poor and poor families with children.  the Borrower has adopted a policy of increased
.  coverage for (i) cash transfer programs for needyl
Objectives and Program: To protect the well-being    families and poor erand poim the in-id
ofvlnrbl   rup    it   deut  adasue          families and poor elderly, and (ni) the in-kindI
of vulnerable groups with adequate and assured    transfer programs.l
income support.                                                                                                                                        l
3. SOCIAL PROTECTION FOR WORKERS
1. Strengthen compliance with severance pay provisions
Issue: Due to liquidity constraints some firms are                                                   The Borrower will develop a savings-based system for
unable to meet severance payments obligations to laid                                                workers not covered by the Social Security System,
off workers.                                                                                         pursuant to the Labor Protection Act of 1998.
Objectives and Program: Protect living standards of                                                  By April 30, 1999 the Borrower will have established
unemployed workers.                                                                                  an employee welfare fund to partially finance unpaid
severance claims.
2. Develop cost-effective training and employment services for unemployed
Issue:  International experience shows that active    The borrower has established a task force with
labor market programs may not be cost-effective    representation  from   workers,  employers  and
government to design, target, and evaluate cost-
Objectives  and  Program:  Improve  the  cost-   effective training  and  employetsrie   o
effectiveness of training and employment services for    unemployed workers.
unemployed workers.
4. PROTECTING THE ELDERLY
1. Strengthen voluntary providentfundsforprivate employees
Issue: The existing provident funds are unsupervised                                                 The high-level task force set up to review the Social
and unregulated. They offer lump sum refunds when                                                    Security System shall develop robust supervision and
employees leave firms, with no portability between                                                   regulatory structure for voluntary provident funds and
jobs and no annuities.                                                                                to improve their portability across firms.
Objectives and Program: Strengthen the supervision
and regulatory structure of voluntary provident funds.



- 79 -
Objectives And Program                           Board Conditions In Bold                         Letter Of Development Policy
2. Strengthen existing adnmnistrative structure in SSO
Issue:  The integrity of the SSO database is not   The SSO database has been cleaned to ensure data
adequate to support efficient administration of existing    integrity  by  (a) removing  excess records; (b)
SSO benefits, or extension thereof;               correcting misrecording of contribution collections;
Objectives and  Program: Verify  existing  data   and (c) attaching the 13 digit identifier to each record.
records in SSO to ensure a clean database before
instituting additional benefit payments;
S. IMPROVE THE INFORMATION BASE FOR MONITORING
Issue: The crisis has highlighted the need for timely    The Borrower has provided adequate resources to:
and policy relevant information flows to improve the   (a) enable the carrying out in 1999 of a survey to
speed and quality of public policy response so as to    monitor poverty based on a component of the SES,
mitigate the hardship among the poor, and to improve    and  accelerate tumaround time to 3 months for
the monitoring of programs implemented.           updating the annual poverty map;
Objectives and  Programs: Enhance the policy   (b Increase frequency of LFS to 4 rounds/year,
relevance of the existing household and income survey   implement appropriate questionnaire improvements
and labor force surveys,                          and seasonal adjustments, and accelerate analysis
turnaround to 3 months.



- 80 -
ANNEX 1: ACTIONS TAKEN ON PRIVATIZATION AND PUBLIC
ENTERPRISE REFORM
1. State Enterprise Office
* Established Office of State Enterprises in Ministry of Finance (with joint MOF and
NESDB Secretariat) to support and coordinate privatization, develop private participation
in infrastructure, and monitor state enterprises. Office of State Enterprises reports to the
State Enterprise Policy Committee under the Office of the Prime Minister.
2. Creation of a Master Plan for State Enterprise Reform; Use of Proceeds
*  The Cabinet approved the Master Plan for State Enterprise Reform on September 1, 1998.
The Master Plan establishes an overall strategy for privatization, principles for regulatory
bodies, and sequencing of divestiture in four key sectors--transportation, water, energy
and telecommunications.
*  Cabinet approved the use of privatization proceeds, earmarking 50 percent of receipts for
social projects in the rural, agricultural, educational, and public health sectors (in the case
of subsidiary enterprises this proportion could be raised above 50 percent, including
through contributions to labor welfare funds). The remainder is to be deposited with the
Financial Institutions Development Fund (FIDF) to reduce its debt.
3. Fast- Track Divestiture Program
Energy
D Sale of EGAT's stake in Electricity Generating (Public) Co. Ltd.
*  Sale of a significant stake of PTT in PTT Exploration and Production.
*  Partial divestitures are also underway for Bangchak Petroleum, Thai Airways, and ESSO.
Other
* The Cabinet has issued a resolution to liquidate the (i) Textile Organization, (ii) Battery
Organization, (iii) Preserved Food Organization, and (iv) the Cold Storage Organization.
4. Corporatization Law
The Government has submitted a draft Corporatization Law to Parliament
enabling the conversion of state enterprises into public companies constituted under Thailand's
Civil and Commercial Code. The draft law has been accepted by the Lower House of
Parliament. The draft law streamlines the Corporatization Committee and State Enterprise Policy
Commission procedures to avoid overlap and increase transparency.



- 81 -
ANNEX 2: STATUS OF THE CORPORATE SECTOR
The financial position of the corporate sector continued to deteriorate in the first half of
1998. For the first time, operating profits for 340 non-financial firms listed on the Stock
Exchange of Thailand, fell below interest expense, on average. Debt to equity ratios continued to
increase as equity deteriorated and unpaid debts accumulated. The average ratio of liabilities to
equity in the Thai stock exchange reached 3.58 in the first half of 1998. Corporate distress is not
limited to any particular sector; within each sector, there are both distressed and successful firms.
Thai industries are overcapitalized, due to several years of over investment and this has
resulted in extremely low asset turnover ratios throughout the corporate sector. Low asset
turnover is linked directly to inability to pay interest in the Thai corporate sector. Where asset
turnover is below 1, firms are unable to cover interest cost of operations (with the exception of
the energy sector, which traditionally operates with large asset bases). For several industries, the
amount of sales projected for 1998 are only equal to around one-third of the value of their assets.
While some of this is clearly due to declines in revenue, in large part it is also due to extremely
large asset bases capitalized through debt. These large asset bases raised the required breakeven
sales volume for the average firm, making them extremely vulnerable to the decline in demand
which resulted from monetary contraction.
Need for industry exit. According the Stock Exchange of Thailand, 8 percent of its
listed firms are technically bankrupt, and will be reviewed for delisting starting January 1999.
While this only represents 41 firms, the SET represents less than 0.4 percent of the total number
of non-financial enterprises in Thailand.
Need for industry consolidation and rationalization. While the high ratios of debt to
equity in the corporate sector are well documented, the recovery of the corporate sector will not
result from   financial restructuring.  The structural overcapacity requires a fundamental
rethinking of decisions concerning horizontal expansion, focus on cashflow and on decreasing
currently high breakeven points. The lack of cashflow-oriented management is endemic to both
the corporate and financial sectors. Systemic solutions which shift the focus of capital allocation
decisions away from managers, owners and bankers would remove an important opportunity to
fundamentally strengthen the Thai economy. Such common-denominator solutions could also
have the unintended effect of rewarding managers and bankers who made poor capital allocation
decisions at the expense of better managers and bankers.
A lack of shareholder-oriented corporate governance practices. In Thailand, directors
are largely not accountable to shareholders outside of the central ownership group. Corporate
governance practices which are not sufficiently oriented toward increasing shareholder value
eliminates this critical incentive for restructuring. As a related issue, there is also a lack of
transparency in accounting practices. As the majority of Thai corporates are still in the process
of evolving from family-owned business management structures, financial data is extremely
closely-held. This has prevented financial institutions from being able to understand repayment
from a cashflow perspective, and to have a common baseline for adjusting debt levels.



- 82 -
Unlike the Korean economy, where large industrial groups dominate the economic
landscape, the Thai economy is relatively decentralized. Large firms (with over 200 employees
or over 100 million Baht in basic registered capital) account for half of industrial employment,
but only 2 percent of all registered firms. Roughly 98 percent of total finns, representing 50
percent of industrial employment, fall into the SME sector. The non-performing loans in the Thai
financial sector are similarly distributed. The Bank of Thailand estimates that there are roughly
300 NPLs above 500 million baht each, with a total value of roughly 700 billion baht, 1,300
medium sized NPLs ranging from 100 to 500 million in debt size representing another 700
million in NPLs, and the balance distributed in tens of thousands of individual and small
corporate cases less than 100 million baht each.
Manufacturing Firms by Size
Large                    Medium                   Small               Total
Definitions            Empl.>200 or basic        50-199 empl. or         Empl. <50 or
cap > 100 mm Baht         basic cap 10-100        basic cap < 10
mm Baht                 mm Baht
Number of Firms        2,603 (2 %)               7,401 (6 %)              116,807 (92%)      126,811
Employment             1,563,469 (50%)           706,075 (22%)           882,339 (28%)       3,151,883
Source: Ministry of Industry
Sample of Restructuring Cases in Process
Firm            Operational Problems       Debt   Operational change discussed       Financial structures in negotiation
(est.)
Billion
Baht
Major Cement   Revenue, excess           Over 200  Plan to create flexibility        Cash injection plus rollover, strategic
Company         diversification (9 major           through management                sales will raise cash for core business
business units, few                decentralization, seek strategic  restructuring.
synergies),                       investment in business units.
competitiveness                    Major Japanese and European
firms in negotiation.
Major           Drop in market prices,    Over 100  Business segmentation, some      Debt to equity swap, debentures
Petrochemicals  high domestic sales,                businesses to be sold over       convertible to more equity if results
company         excess diversification              implementation period.           below targets, some unsecured debt
converted into long-term loans
secured by land.
Fixed-line      Domestic revenue,           40      Management change (CEO           Rollover of debt, new credit from
telephone       foreign suppliers.                  resigns, new management brought  bank and trade creditors, probable
operator        Earnings stream low                 in). Rationalization and cost    increase in equity from existing
relative to cap costs.             reductions likely.               outside shareholders.
Mining          Cost structure,              3      Strategic investor (Australian),    Investor injects equity B 1.4 billion,
company         management structure,               focus on core business, close some  restructure s/t debt
excess diversification,            businesses, new CEO
production efficiency
Home products   High domestic sales,         4      Strategic sale (Hong Kong)      Investor injects B 1.2 billion. Some
excess capital                                                      reduction of dollar denominated
investment, hard hit by                                             principal, rollover of S/T.
Baht float
Source: World Bank Thailand Office



- 83 -
Status of Bank Group Operations in Thailand
Operations Portfolio
(as of January 31, 1999)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project rD    Year                 Borrower                            Purpose
IBRD       IDA       Cancel.      Undisb.       Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 108
Active Projects
TH-PE-4796       1993   METRO ELEC AUTHORITY               DISTRIB. SYS & EGY E                    109.00         0.00        0.00         17.00        16.98       16.98       U           S
TH-PE-4803       1995   RTG                                LAND TITLING III                        118.10         0.00        0.00         62.81       34.39         0.00       S           S
TH-PE-4802       1995   BANGCHAK PETROLEUM PCL             CLEAN FUELS & EA QUA                     90.00         0.00        0.00         70.80       63.80         0.00       S           S
TH-PE-4801       1995   PROV ELEC AUTHORITY                DISTRIBUT.SYSTEM REI                     50.00         0.00        0.00          4.48         4.49        0.00       U           S
TH-PE-4799       1995   EGAT                               LAM TAKHONG PUMP STO                    100.00         0.00        0.00         50.01       31.01         0.00       U           S
TH-PE-4800       1996   GOV. OF THAILAND                   HIGHWAYS V                              150.00         0.00       45.00        103.59      146.59         0.00       S           U
TH-PE-4793       1996   GOVT OF THAILAND                   TECHNICAL EDUCATION                      31.60         0.00        0.00         31.60       23.00         0.00       S           S
TH-PE-4791       1996   GOVT OF THAILAND                   SEC.EDUC. QUALITY IM                     81.90         0.00        0.00         81.90       37.00         0.00       S           S
TH-PE-42268      1997   PEA                                DISTR AUTOM & RELIA                     100.00         0.00        0.00         94.59       53.10        23.12       U           U
TH-PE-37086      1997   METROPOLITAN ELECTRICITY           METROPOL'N DIST REIN                    145.00         0.00        0.00        120.68          .70        0.00       U           S
TH-PE-4805       1997   GOVT OF THAILAND                   UNIVER SCI & ENG.EDU                    143.40         0.00        0.00        140.46       37.06         0.00       S           S
TH-PE-54799      1998                                      ECO MGT IMPLE ASSIST                     15.00         0.00        0.00         14.48        10.50        0.00       S           S
TH-PE-53616      1998                                      FIN SEC IMPL ASST                        15.00         0.00        0.00         11.55         7.58        0.00       S           S
TH-PE-56269      1999                                      SOCIAL INVEST PROJ                      300.00         0.00        0.00        298.75       -1.25         0.00
Total                                                                                            1,449.00         0.00       45.00    1,102.70        464.95        40.10
Active Projects        Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   301.30            5,072.27             5,373.57
of which has been repaid:                    7.89            3,219.10             3,226.99
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 1,396.11            1,855.46             3,251.57
Amount sold                       :                 0.00               196.73              196.73
Of which repaid               :                  0.00              196.73               196.73
Total Undisbursed                 :             1,102.70                 2.00            1,104.70
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory,  S = satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



- 84-
Thailand
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jan-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1979/81/84/87/91     Siam City              20.00    0.00   0.00     55.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    55.00
1984/91              SEAVI Thailand          0.00    1.50   0.00      0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00     0.00
1987/96              HMC Polymers            0.00    3.92    .36     0.00    0.00    3.92    .36       0.00
1988                 Peroxythai              4.01    0.00   0.00      0.00    4.01    0.00    0.00     0.00
1989                 SCB-CKAP                0.00    .41   0.00      0.00    0.00    .41    0.00       0.00
1989                 TFB-Ladprao             0.00    .33   0.00      0.00    0.00    .33    0.00       0.00
1989                 SCB-Thai Baroda         0.00    .78   0.00       0.00    0.00    .78    0.00      0.00
1989                 TFB-Top Easy            0.00    .15   0.00       0.00    0.00    .15    0.00      0.00
1990                  Siam Asahi             0.00    7.70   0.00      0.00    0.00    6.37    0.00     0.00
1990/95              Shin Ho Paper           8.28    7.54   0.00     9.67    8.28    7.54    0.00      9.67
1991                 VIM Thailand            0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
1991/93/96/98        Ayudhya Leasing        10.00    2.42   0.00     0.00   10.00    2.42    0.00      0.00
1992                 Krung Thai IBJ          0.00    .35   0.00       0.00    0.00    .35    0.00      0.00
1993                 Advance Agro           10.00    0.00   0.00      0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
1993                 Bumrungrad             25.00    2.24   0.00    29.00   25.00    2.24    0.00     29.00
1993                 Central Hotel           0.00   13.95   0.00     0.00    0.00   13.95    0.00      0.00
1993                 Samui Beach             2.14    0.00   0.00      3.57    2.14    0.00    0.00     3.57
1993                 Star Petroleum         91.07    0.00   0.00    297.50   91.07    0.00    0.00    297.50
1993                 TUNTEX                 11.40    4.92   0.00    95.60   11.40    4.92    0.00     95.60
1993                 Sukhontha               1.43    0.00   0.00     3.57    1.43    0.00    0.00      3.57
1994                 Dhana Siam             20.44    0.00   0.00     3.14   20.44    0.00    0.00      3.14
1994                 Vinythai               34.49    0.00   0.00    44.74   34.49    0.00    0.00     44.74
1995                 Finance One            30.00    0.00   0.00    132.40   30.00    0.00    0.00    132.40
1995                 Saha Farms             25.00    9.90  10.00    25.00   25.00    9.90   10.00     25.00
1995                 UPOIC                   0.00    1.08   0.00     0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00      0.00
1995/96/98           BTSC                   80.00    9.83   9.83     0.00   49.28    9.83    9.83      0.00
1996                 NFS                    22.50    0.00   0.00      0.00   22.50    0.00    0.00     0.00
1996                 Thai Petrochem         76.67    0.00  20.00    383.33   76.67    0.00   20.00    383.33
Total Portfolio:                 472.43   67.02  40.19  1,082.52  441.71   65.69   40.19   1,082.52
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1996                 NFS                    10.00    0.00   0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         10.00    0.00   0.00     0.00



-85-                                                  ANNEX 4
ANNEX 5: THAILAND AT A GLANCE
East   Lower.        -____
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asia &   middle-
Thalland    Pacific  income      ievelopment diamond^
Population, mid-year (millions)                      60.6      1,753    2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  2,800       970     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, U$S billions)                    1697       1,707    2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                        1.2       .tS        1.2
Labor forc (%)                                        1 5        14        1.3     GNP              I \             Gross
per          .                 primary
Most recent estimoahl (latest year available, 1891.97)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of popuation below national poverty line)   13
Urban population (% ototal population)                 21        32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       69        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               33        38        36
Child malnutrition (% of childenn under 5)             ..        16         ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (%-of population)                 81        84        84
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                    6        17        19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  87       115    -111             'Thailand
Male                                                 ..       118       116        --Lower-middle4income group
Female                                               ..       116       113    L
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997   r
Economic ratios-
GOP (USS billions)                          17.0    43.1       181.4    153.9
Gross domestic invastmentlGDP               24.0     25.9      41.7      35.0                     T
Exports of goods and services/GDP           20.2    25.6       39,3      47.0                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  21.5     27.9      35.9       35.7.
Gross national savings/GDP                  21.2   . 25.9      33.2      32.6
Current account balance4GDP                  -2.6     0.6      -7.9       -2.0
Interest payments/GDP                        0.6      2.4        1.2      2.0      Domestic                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                              13.7    42.9       50.1                Saving
Total debt service/exports                  10.4    30.1        11.4
Present value af debVGDP                       ..      ..      50.1
Presert value of debtexports                   .        ,      120.0                            Idbens
-                                                    U ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996       1897   199842
(average annual growth)                                                          I
GDP                                 6.0      8.7      5.5      -0.4         *               Thailand
GNP per capita                      3.7      7.2      4.0      -2.1                         Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       8.9    13.5       -1.8      6.6        ..   !
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
i876     1986      196       1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(V. of GDP)
Agriculture                                 26.7     15.7       11.0     11.2
Industry                                    27.6    33.1       39.5      39.8      la
Manufacturing                              19.7     23.9      28.4      28.8      s
Services                                    45.7     51.3      49.5      48.9    -1j    92   93   94   95   "\I r
Private consumption                         67.5     59.3      53.9      54.1    -201
General govemment consumption               11.0     12.8       10.2     10.3   1GDi                       0GDP
Imports of goods and services               22.7     23.6      45.1      46.4
197646  1987-97       1996      199'7    Growthratesof exports and lniports(%)
(average annual growth)                                                         FGom|      t
Agriculture                                  3.8      3.4        3.8       1.2    25
Industry                                     7.1     11.2       7.0      -0.1   1 20
Manufacturing                               6.2     11.3       6.9       0.2
Services                                     6.3      8.2       4.6      -1.1    1         0
Private consumption                          4.7      7.6       5.2       0.0      
General govemment consumption                7.8      5.9       9.5      -0.7    -5    92   93   94   95
Gross dormestic investment                   5.0     11.5       5.4    -19.0    10-I
Imports of goods and services                4.7     13.7      -0.9    -10.0             -Exports            'Impoens
Gross national product                       5.8      8.5       5.0      -1.1    _
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 86 -                                             ANNEX 4
Thailand
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1996      1997     Inflation
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                      s-
Consumer prices                             4.1      1.8       5.8       5.6    6
Implicit GDP deflator                       4.5      1.7       4.0       5.4
Government finance                                                             12
(% of GDP, includes curnnt grants) o
Current revenue                             12.4    15.0       18.9       *             92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                       0.7    -0.5       8.5                       --GDP deflator    cCPI
Overall surplusidericit                     -3.6    -4.5        2.2       .-_
TRADE
1976    1986      1996      1997     Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)                                                                   E
Total exports (fob)                        2,980    8,872    56,001    58,431    0 Goo
Rice                                       422     775      2,012    2,080    70,0D0
Rubber                                     260     577      2,513    1,900)    ,0,000
Manurfactures                                .    4,649    45,646   48,182    59,005 
Total imports (cf)                            . 9,448    72,768   63,86 
Food                                         .       ..     1,660    1,366 
Fuel and energy                              .. 1,225       6,248    5,536     1000
Capital goods                                .       ..    34,222   31,367        0 o     9    3 94 9    6 9
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      62        99
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      50        99                       au Exports    [m Imports
Terms of trade (199&5=100)                           124       100         -
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986      1996      1997     Cumnt account balanc to GDP ratio I%)
(US$ millions)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                  3,467   11,105    71,687   72,740     0.
Imports of goods and services             3,900   10,219    83,422   72,673      2
Resource balance                           -433      887   -11,735       67      2
Net income                                  -64    -864    -3,386   -3,576 1 2 
Net current transfers                        47      225       761      446     -4ll
Current account balance                    -440      247   -14,360   -3,063    -6
Financing items (net)                       521      436    16,529   13,712    -7
Changesinnetreserves                        -81    -64      -2,169   -10,649   i 
Memo:                                                                          -             _   __
Reserves including gold (US$ miltions)     1,893    3,776    38,645   26,893
Conversion rate (DEC, localUSS)             20.4    26.3       25.3     31.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996      1997   F
(US$ millions)                                                                 ; Com,position of total debt, 1996 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       2,326   18,505    90,824       ..   |:100
IBRO                                      298    2,781     1,607    1,715                  A: 1,607 D: 1,278
IDA                                        11      109       100       98
Total debt service                          378    3,655      8,652
lBRD                                       36      358       318      257
IDA                                         0        1         3        3      G:361
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            84      152        96
Official creditors                        109      294       634
Private creditors                         139    -505      9,630                                             F:42,603
Foreign direct investment                  79      263     2,336
Portfolio equRty                            0       31      1,551 .  
World Bank program
Commitments                               158       93       250      767     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              50      206       138      443      B - IDA    D - Other mulblateral   F - Pivate
Principal repayments                       15      129       198      155     C-IMF                        G- Short-term
Net flows                                  35       77       -60      288          _        ,              _
Interest payments                          22      230       122      105
Net transfers                              13    -164       -183      184
Development Economics                                                                                             9/8/98



