Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12477-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
STATE OF NINAS GERAIS
BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVENENT PROJECT
(ProQualidade)
APRIL 5, 1994
MICGOGRAPHIC S
13epcrt 1N:       12477 BIl
Type: SAB
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document hs a restAicted distibution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official dudies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autorization.



CURRENCY EQuJvALENTs (as of March 1, 1994)
Currency Unit: Cruzeiro Real (CR$)
US$1.00 = CR$647.30 (commercial rate)
wFISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCipAL ABBREViATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AVA-CTA               Comit, Tcvnico de Avaiiacdo para o A VA-MOI
Technical Accreditation Committee for Student Assessment
AVA-MG                Programa de Avaliaqda da Escola Paiblica de Minras Geraisl
Minas Gerais Public Education Evaluation Prograun
CA                    Comiti de AssessorameatoHigh-Level Advisory Commitoe
CA-B                  Subcomifr Externo do CA/CA External Subcommittee
CA-I                  Subcomite Inierno do CA/CA Internal Subconmmittee
CACI                  Cronograma de Ag5es Crftcas de hnpleemntaqoI
Timetable of Critical Implementation Actions
CBA                   Ciclo Bdsico de AYabetizafdoIBasic Literacy Cycle
CONSED                Conseio Nacional de Secre:drios de Educagol
Np ial Council of State Education Secretaries
CRE                    Ct.. O de Referwncia do Ensino/lnstructional Reference Center
DEOP                  Departamento de Obras PdblicaslState Department of Public Works
DRE                   Dekgadia Regional de Ensino/Regional Education Office
EDURURAL              Northeast Basic Education I Project
FAE                   FundL-co de Assistwncia ao Estudantel
Foundation for Student Assistance
FCO                   Fundagdo Cristiano Otoni/Cristiano Otoni Foundation
FNDE                  Fwudo Nacional de Desenvolvonimento da Educagiol
National Fund for Education Development
IE                    Institug4io FspeciafizadaISpeciaJized Instiuion
IEC                   Informap4o, Educaq&o e Comunicaa0o/
Information, Education and Communication
INOVAC6ES             Sio Paulo Innovations in Basic Education Project
ICB                   Intemnational Competitive Bidding
LCB                   Local Competitive Bidding
MEC                   Ministerio da EducapJo e do DesportolMinistry of Education
MONHANGARA            Urban Basic Education Project
NEBE                  Northeast Basic Education Projects 11 and HI
PAIE                  Programa de Apoio as Inovag6es Escolaresl
Support Progrm for School Innovations
PDE                   Plano de Desenvolvimiento da Fscola/School Development Plan
PIP                    Piano de bhykmentaodo do Projetol
Project Inplementation Plan
PNLD                  Programa Nacional do Livro Diddticol
Federal Textbook Provision Program
POA                    Plano Operalivo Anual/Annual Operational Plan
QESE                   Quota Estadaal do Saldrio-Educaq*l
State Share of Payroll Tax for Education
RAA                   Relat6rio Anual do AcompanhJmentolAnnual Progress Report
SAEB                  Sistema Nacional de Avaliaf4o !a Educap4o B4sical
National Student Assessment System
SECOM                 SeleVo Conpetitiva de Diretoresl
System for Competitive Selection of School Principals
SEE/MG                Secretaria Essaduat de Educa,c'o de Minas Geraisl
Education Secretariat of the State of Minas Gerais
TQM                   Total Quality Management
UCP                    Unidade de Coordenaqo do ProjetofProject Coordination Unit
UNDP                  United Nations Development Programme



BRAZIL                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STATE OF MINAS GERM
BASIC EDUCATION QUALMT   APROVENT PROJECT
(ProQualidade)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CoNTmrs
Page No.
low and Project Summnary ................. e . . * * . * *. * * * * . * * **  v-x
BrazulandMns Gerais: SelectedStatistics  .................. x
L  Background, ssue, and Strategies  ...................... 1
A. TheStateofMinasGerais ......................... 1
B. The Basic Education System in Minas Gerais .             ............. 2
Division of Responsibilities Among Govemment Levels ........ 2
Oranization .................................. 2
Access and Coverage ............................. 3
Role of State Government .........             ................. 3
Role of Municipal Governments ...................... 3
State Govenment Expenditures ...................... 4
C. State Govemment Strategy ......................... 5
The Basic Literacy Cycle. .........................5 
Student Assessment .............................  5
Competitive Selection of School Directors ................ S
Transfer of Nonsalary Resources to Schools ............... 6
Empowerment of School Councils ..................... 6
School-Based Planning and Management  ......             .......... 7
The Minas Gerais Education Pact ..................... 7
This report is based on fte findinp of an appraisd mission tha visited de Stae of Minas
Gerais in Brai in June 1993 conssting of Bank staff A. Saliba (LAlIHR, mision leader and
Taak Mana), T. Moran (ESP, teacher traning anadyst), L Larach (ESP, student a_
analyst), H. Nobkoht (PMDIR, COSTA" operator), and J. B. de Oliveim (EDIHR,
instuctional materials speciait); plus expert consutants J. M. Vilela (pocurement), M. Silva
(testing), R. Sanjuio-Zunini (arecitect), L. Roseberg (education), S. Costa-Ribeiro
(educatonalresearch and satistics), E. Marques (educational finances), L. B. Gomes-Neto
(educatio _m toring, S. Friedmam (project mnagement), J. Esquivel-Al5wo (student
t), and S. Dompieri (architect). Reviewers were C. Valdivieso (MN2PH, lead
project advisor), J. Schweitzer (LA4HR), L Wolff (MN1PH), and R. Hom (LAIHR).
Messrs. A. Coliou, 0. Grimes, and R. B. Steckhaa are, respectively, the Division Chief, the
Depament Project Advisor, and the Deartmet Director for the operation.
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by reipients only in the pefrmanoe oftheir
official duties. Its contents umay not othewise be disclosed with o ut World Bank zation.



ii
D. Sectoral Performance  ............................ 8
Education Attainment    ............................ 8
School Productivity   ...........................                   8
Poor Academic Achievement .       ....................... 8
High Repetition and Low Graduation   .................. 9
E. Sectoral Issues ........................... 9
Shortage of LnstructionalwMae s ...................  9
Low Quality of Teaching . .      ...................... 10
happropriate Pedagogical Pctices  .        ................. 11
Lack of Effective manasement ........................ 11
Undu!y Complex Govenan c   e...................... 12
nadequate Educational Spending        .................... 12
F. Bank Strategy and Role  ..........................  12
Bank Strategy ...........................                          12
Bank Education Lending to Brazil  .........         .......... 13
Lesons Leaned ...........................                          14
R. The Prjed  ............. .........                                       14
A. Project Objectives  ..................... . . ..                .. 14
B. Project Components  ........................... 15
C. Desription of Project Components   ...................              16
A: Inproving System-Wide Management .......... .....    16
(a) Reforming Education Monitoring  ...........         ... 16
(b) Strengthening Student Assessment ...........        ... 16
(c) Fostering Information-Based Decision Making  ....   18
B: Strengthening School Administration  .........       ...... 18
(a) Improving School Planning ..       .     ............... 18
(b) Strengthening School Leadership  ...........        ... 19
(c) Providing Office Technology ..............          ... 20
C: Developing Teaching Compatence              ..... 21
(a) Enhancing Curriculum Development .........          ... 21
(b) Providing In-service Teacher Training  ........     ... 22
(c) Evaluating Educational Interventions ........      .... 23
D: Providing Instructional Materas  ............          ..... 23
(a) Delivering Textbooks  ..................... 23
(b) Setting Up Reading Corners and School Libraries .... 24
(c) Supplying Teaching Kits  ................... 25
E: Upgrding FacilityMagement ...........               ....... 25
(a) Adding Clasrooms ....................... 25
(b) RationalizingFacilityUtilization ...............          26
D. RationaleforBankInvolvement ......               ............... 27
E. Project Be.iefits and Risks .......      ..................         27
Project Sustinability                    . . .   29
Environmental Impact  .......         ................... 29



iii
IML  Project Costs and lplementation ..................... 29
A. Project Costs  ................... .29
Summary of Project Costs ........ ................  29
Base Costs                       .......... ..   ......          . 30
Contingencies ....................., 31
Recurrent Costs  ..................... 31
B. FinancingPlan   ................ . 31
Rctroactive Financing           .......                ....... . 31
C. ProjectImplementaton  ..... .... ..........  32
Executing Agency  ............................. 32
The Project Coordinating Unit  .       .................... 32
TheEigh-LevelAdvisory Comnnittee(CA) .............. 33
Implementaton Readiness  ..........              ............   33
Ainual Planning         .............................. 34
Reporting  .        ................................. 34
Annual Reviews  .............................. 34
ld-Term Revew e............................. 35
D. Mc-iitoring and Evaluation  .......        ................. 35
E. Procamment                            ................................. 35
Procurement Responsibility  .... ................ .... 35
Procurement Arrangements            ....................... 36
Bank Review Requirements               ........ . 38
F. Disbursements ..         ..................... . 39
Special Account             . ............................ 40
Schedule ..   .................................. 40
0. Accounting and Auditing  ...        ...................... 41
IV. Agrements Reacded and Recommendation ............                   ... 41
Tables in Main Report
3.1(a) Summary of Prject Costs by Component .. .............. 29
3.1(b) Sumnary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditre .. ...... 30
3.2    Financing Plan  . ..................                ............. 32
3.3    Summary of Procurement Armngements ..............               ... 39
3.4    Summary of Alocation of the Loan Proceeds  .....            ........ 40
3.5    Estimated Disbursements .......            .................... 0



iv
A. Annex Tables    .... .................. .... . 45
IA Minas Gerais Basic Education: Enrollment by Education Leve
and Subsystem, 1985 and 1990 ...... ............. 46
1B Minas Gerais Basic Education: Enrollment by Grade and
Subsystem, 1991 ......      .............. . . .... 47
2A Minas Gerais Basc Education: SEE/MG Spending by Category
of Expenditure, 1991 and 1992 ................... 48
2B  Minas Gerais Basic Education: SEE/MG   nditures by
Education Level, 1991 and 1992  ..............    .... 49
3A Minas Gerais Elementary Education: Detailed Student Flow . 50
3B Minas Gerais Elementary Educition: Summary of Student Flow
Statistics Per Grade .................... 51
4A Brazil and Minas Gerais Elementary Education: Selected Student
lestng Results, 199     ..............            .. . 52
4B Minas Gerais Basic Education: Municipal Systems' per Pupil
Availability of Financial Resources, 1992 ....... ...... 53
5A  Project Cost Summary by Subcomponent ....... ...... 54
5B  Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Account ....5..... !
SC  Expnditure Accounts by Financier .................. 56
5D  Procurement Arrangetnents ...................... 57
SE  Disbursment Accounts by Piwncier    ........    ..... 8
3F  Project Estimated Disbursement Schedule by Quarter ...... 59
D. Annex Nos ...............................0 61
B.1 Lessons Learned from Bank Lending in Education ....... 62
B.2 ImplementationStrategy of Basic Teaclier Training ....... 64
B.3 Pioect M gementStructure .......... .......... 65
B.4 Planning and Reporting under fie Project .... ......... 69
B.S Timetable of Critical Implementation Actions ...... ..... 71
C. Table of Contents ot Project Implemetation Planu  *.....   75
D. Selected Documents Aalable i the Project lle .......  76
Map: BMD No. 25647  ............ ....... Inside bw caover



BRAZIL
STATE OF MiNAS GERAus
BAsic EDUCATION QUJALXY IMPROVEMENT PROnEcr
(ProQualidade)
LOAN AND PRoJEr SUmmARY
Borrower:         State of Minas Gerais
Guarantor:        Federative Repiblic of Brazil
Executing Agency: Education Secretariat of the State of Minas Gerais
Beneficiaries:    About 3 million children in public elementary schools
Loan Amount:      US$150.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Payable in 15 years, on a fixed amortization schedule
with a five-year grace period, as selected by the
Borrower at negotiations.
Project Objectives: The overall goal of the project is to improve educational
attainment in the State of Minas Gerais, as defined by
significant increases in student learning and graduation
from elementary school. To achieve this goal, the
project will: (a) provide managers in the central and
regional offices with tools designed for information-
based decision making; (b) help school directors assume
their roles as both leaders and managers in a more
decentralized state education system; (c) increase
teachers' access to training in clssroom management;
(d) deliver a package of instructional materials,
especially books, to students in public classrooms; and
(e) upgrade facility management to ensure adequate use
of public school space.
Project Description: The project will support improvements in: (a) system-
wide management through student assessment,
educational monitoring, and operational studies to foster
information-based decision making; (b) school
adminstration through systematic school planning



-VI"
(including school development grants), school leadership
development, and provision of offlce technology systems;
(c) teaching competence through increased access of
public school teachers to training in classroom
management, enhancement of curriculum develvpment,
and evaluation of classroom interventions; (d)
ailabiity of learing materials through regular
provision of books and other learming aids to all students
in public classrooms; and (e) facility management in
support of classroom construction and rational school
space utilization necessary to ensure that all pupils
attending state schools have access to the locally-standard
four and a half hours of schooling per day. To achieve
these objectives, the project will finance educational
materials, school equipment and furniture1 vehicles, civil
works, technical assistance (including training), and
oPerational expenses. The project will also finance
project management costs of about US$4.4 million
equivalent.
Benefits:         Through an additional expenditure of US$20 per
beneficiary pupil annually, the project will directly
improve the quality of schooling for approximately three
million primary school children per year in public
schools in the State of Minas Gerais. The project will
contibute to overall development of the civil service in
the state by providing training and upgrading
opportunites to teachers, who account for more than half
of the civil service in Minas Gerais. Improved student
flows will also increase the efficiency of public spending
on primary education. The project will test potentially
replicable methodologies by supporting the establishment
of systematic educational monitoring, including student
assessment-a pioneering concept in Brazil. The project
will also help establish an improved empirical basis for
decision-making by policymakers and practitioners by
financing studies aimed at assessing the relative cost-
effectiveness and impact of various educational
interventions.
Risks:            There are four main risks associated with this project.
The AM risk is the possibility of diminished political
commitment following the change in the state
government cabinet, which will take place in early 1995.
A decline in political commitment could lead to the
failuie of the government to provide adequate



-vii-
counterp  funds in a timely manner. This risk will be
mitigated by having repsentatives from selected
stakeholder groups and constituencies participate in the
High-Level Advisory Committee (CA) to be maintained
under the project. This CA will serve as an agent for
resolving eventual interagency coordination problems,
and as a guardian of project interests across SEE/MG
administrations. The ond risk is the possibility that
the enabling policy framework, supported by decrees and
directives, might backslide with the change in the
government cabinet. This risk will be mitigated by
seeking formal assurance from the government of its
commitment to the policy framework. This will be done
through the Government's transmission to the Bank as a
condition of Board presentation of a Policy Letter of
Basic Education Quality Improvement of the State of
Minas Gerais Public School System. The CA is also
expected to play a strong role in protecting project
interests during government transitions. A tbird risk is
the potential resistance that school principals and
teachers may pose to project objectives and means, as
they have not been involved in project design and
preparation. This risk will be mitigated through the
ecution of a sound Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) program at the beginning of
project implementation. The purpose of this IEC
progam is to foster greater awareness and acceptance of
ongoing policy and management initiatives by all
interested parties, especially school principals, teachers,
and parents. Finally, there is the risk that the agreed
federal-state partnership for textbook financing and
procurement might not work as planned, with continued
turnover of leadership in the Ministry of Education
(MEC). This risk will be mitigated by making use of
loan conditionality that requires the State to assume
responsibility for ensuring that every public elementary
school student in Minas Gerais has a basic set of
tetbooks in hand at the beginning of each school year,
repardless of the nature of support from the federal
f -rnment. The project midterm review will also
provide an opportunity for reassessment of
implementation risl s and adjustments, if necessary.
Rate of Return    Not applicable



-vii-
Joverty Categozy: Consistent with the Bank's.assistance strategy for Brazi,
the project cc, :!butes to human reource development
and povety reduction by investing in a program of
target  pimary sd,-ol interventions aimed at rasing
educations! attainutz.: among the less advantaged groups
in the State f Minas Cis.
Maip:             IED No. 25647



-ix
Esdtated Costs (in US$ milion):
Improving System-Wide Management   15.6       3.1       18.7
Strengthening Scool Admion         2S.5      16.9       42.4
Developing Teaching C:ooitco       48.2       3.7       51.9
Providing Instruction  Materias    884       16.7      105.1
Upgrading Facility Mangment        38.8       5.3       44.1
Proeict Maagemenit                  3.3       0.7        4.0
Total Base Costs                  219.8      46.4      266.2
Physical contagencies            10.6       3.5       14.1
Price contigencies                X                   Z
Total Project Cost                248.7      53.3      302.0
Financing Plan (in USS million):
LANA l reimmal
State of Minas Gerais              145.7      6.3      152.0
IBRD                               ic.)      47.0      150.0
Total                              248.7     53.3      302.0
Esimated Loan Dsbursements (in US$ mi ):
Et *         E1X    E9   EN E}             EY21  EPY9   EQQ
Annual        10.0   14.0   25.0   35.0   40.0  22.0        4.0
Cumulative    10.0   24.0   49.0   84.0  124.0 146.0    150.0
* Bank Fiscal Year



-X-
BRAZIL
STATE OF MINAS GERAS
BASIC EDUCATION QUALffY IMPROVE MNT PROJECT (POQualidade)
Brazil and Minas Gerais: Selected Statistics
Bra          Mi G   0b
1991 (urban  75%)                                r    141.4 mIlion     15.7 million
Growth Rat Per Amnu= 
1960-70                                                      2.89            1.49
1970-80                                                      2.48            1.54
19780 Urban                                                  4.44            4.01
A ~     X    t 'b ..irthx-
1970                                                           53 I4
1990 (estimated)                                               66              69
1960-70                                                       117             100
1970-80                                                        88              75
1970                                                          5.8             6.2
1980-90 (estimated)                                           3.6             3.6
1980                                                       $1,922          $1,564
1990                                                       S2,0            $2 504
Aggrgat (USSmillion)                                                         $712
Aggrga_t per pupil                                      $250                 $257
Per pupil in elemnaruy schools (85% of total)                                $259
Ag8a_ as a p_c of GDP                                                       1.8%
Pres¢hool (publio  80%)                                 3.4 milion    356 tousand
mententry education (publiH - 93%)                     27.6 millon       3 miion
Secondary education (public  65%)                       3.5 million    332 thousn
Tertayeducation (public = 37%)                          1.5 milion    140 thousad
az Iducatlo          W                                              - - . s _n 19--
Number of students (publc  93%)                      27.6 million        3  m
Number of schools (public  97%)                      202 thousad       18 thusd
Number of teaching contcs (public = 92%)              1.2 mllian      121 thoua
Number of graduates public = 87%)                         -           106 bousad
Peretg of student in state elementay schools           57% (1989)      74% (1990)
Percetage of suWdents in private elementary shools     13% (1989)       7% (1990)
Percentage of students in municipal elemeay schools    30% (1989)      19% (1990)
SeetwPwbmanee        _ _ _ _~ ~                 ~ ~~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ----r-----------
% of student population completng 8t gade                      33              39
% of popultion completing 8th grade wihout repetition         2.0             2.5
Average number of yea of schooling of population  3_9                         43



* -      --   -  ~~~BRAZIJL
STATE OF MNAS GERAs
BASIC EDUCAlION QUALrrY ImovEmENr POLjECr
(ProQualidade)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND, ISSUES, AND STRATEGES
A. Ihe State of Minas Gerais
1.1       The large and influential state of Minas Gerais is situated in the
relatively more developed southeast region of Brazil. Its name, 'general
mines," alludes to its 18th century prominence as a colonial captaincy where
gold could be found almost everywhere. In many respects, Minas Gerais is a
microcosm of Brazil, with unusually high- and low-income localities found in
its eight "macro-regions." It has an economy almost as diversified as that of
Brazil as a whole, and displays the same social inequities. The socioeconomic
conditions of the largely agricultural northeastern corner of the state resemble
those found in the poverty-stricken northeast of Brazil, whereas the southeast
portion of the state is one of the richest agricultural regions in Brazil. The
industrial centers of the state are largely concentrated in the area surrounding
the state capital of Belo Hoizonte. With almost 16 million inhabitants (11
percent of the Brazilian population in an area equivalent in size to France),
Minas Gerais has the third highest level of GDP of any state in Brazil.
However, its estimated per capita GDP of $2,500 in 1990 was below the
national average of $2,680. Despite the diversity of the state's economy,
Minas Gerais has suffered in recent years from economic problems resulting
from the country's overall macroeconomic instability. While Brazil
experienced high growth in the 1960s and 1970s, the 1980s were charactized
by economic stagnation, high inflation (over 1,100 percent in 1992), and the
inability of successive governments to stabilize the economy.
1.2       For planning purposes the State government has divided Minas
Gerais into eight "macro-regions," themselves representing three different
worlds-the more developed and agro-industrial center and southeast, the least
developed and impoverished north and northeast, and the new growing frontier
in the west. The state has over 700 municipalities, by far the largest number
in any Brazilian state. The vast majority of municipalities are very small: 572
have fewer than 20,000 inhabitants and are essenfially rural towns. The
remaining 150 municipalities with populations above 20,000 represent 74.4
percent of the state's population. As a result of significant migration flows
within as well as from outside the state's boundaries, mostly directed toward
urban peripheries, the urban population in 1990-75 percent of the total-was
more than double that of 1960.
1.3       Past economic growth has not been matched by equivalent
improvements in the living standards of the disadvantaged groups of the
population. The relatively favorable socioeconomic status of the state masks a
skewed income distribution, with 35 percent of the economically active
population in 1987 surviving on just two minimum salaries. This is equivalent



-2-
to about US$1,440 per year, or barely half the national per capita average of
US$2,940. Poverty in both urban and rural areas has remained acute, and
worsened during the 1980s. A study of Brzil's metropolitan areas has found
that the share of the total population living below the poverty line in Belo
Horizonte rose from 18 percent in 1980 to 35 percent in 1985.1 Although the
availability and quality of public social services are relatively better in highly
urban and industrialized areas than in the impoverished and agricultual
northeast region of the state, problems occur everywhere. Public schools in
all macro-regions are affected by low productivity. As the middle and upper-
classes seek schooling in a dynamic private sector, the lower classes are left
with no altemative to low-quality public schooling services.
B. The Basic Education System in Minas Gerais
1.4       Division of Responsibility Among Government Levels. All
three levels of govemment (federal, state and municipal) are involved in
financing, managing, and delivering schooling at all five levels. In practice,
however, states and municipalities are the political units responsible for
securing primary education for all children. They enjoy a large degree of
autonomy from federal authorities. Federal intervention in the state and in
municipalities comes mostly in the form of requirements for minimum
pcentages of state budgets to be spent on education, since the federal
constitution approved in 1988 mandates that state and municipal government
each use at least 25 percent of their total fiscal revenues on the education
sector. The other federal responsibilities in basic education are textbook
provision (see paras. 1.24 and 1.25) and financing of the national school lunch
program.
1.5       Organization. Like other Brailian states, Minas Gerais supports
an extensive basic education system of five levels: one or tvwo years of
preschool (pri-scola), eight years of elementary education (prueiro grau);
three to four years of secondary education (segundo grau); two to six years of
undergraduate education (terceiro grau or graduatao), depending on the field
of study; and two or more years of graduate education (p6s-graduafao) at both
master's and doctoral levels. Brazilian children are eligible for enrollment in
first grade by the time they reach 6 1/2 years of age. Promotion between
grades and between elementary and secondary education is not automatic;
instead, it is based on nonstandardized (and, often, subjective) evaluations of
student performance. Several states, including Minas Gerais, have adopted a
basic literacy cycle (Ciclo Bdsico, or CBA) comprising first and second
grades, between which promotion is, in principle, automatic. Secondary
education can be either vocational or nonvocational, with the latter lasting
three years and the former requiring up to four years (or one academic year of
mandatory professional practice after three years of classroom work). Higher
education at undergraduate and graduate levels is available to the small
minority who graduate from secondary education. Teacher training is
available through either secondary or tertiary programs offered by both private
and public institutions. After four years of successful attendance at vocational
secondary teaching schools (escolas nomas), graduates are certified to teach
in unidisciplinary grades (up to grade four). Holders of undergraduate
teaching cerificates (licenciatura), which require between four semesters
1. Son Rocha, Lihas de Pobreza para as Regi&a Maropoluwsa na Primra Metade da
Decada de 80, IPEA, 1988.



-3-
(licencianra curta) and three years (licencialura plena) of schooling, may
teach up to secondary grades. As in many other Latin American societies, the
Bzilian teaching force is mostly composed of women from middle- and
lower-class families.
1.6       Access and Coverage. Today almost 100 percent of young
children in Minas Geas enter first grade of primary school, compared with
fewer than 40 percent in 1950. Ninety-one percent of all children aged 7-14
are attending school, compared with less than 30 percent in 1950. In 1990,
enrollment irn basic education in the state was approximately 3.8 million, or
about 12 percent of the entire Brazilian student population; 9 percent of these
students were in preschool, 82 percent in elementary school, and 9 percent in
secondary school (see Annex Table IA).
1.7      Role of State Government. Unlie the situation in most
northeastern states and similar to that of other southeastern stes, the state
govenment is clearly the most important financier and deliverer of basic
education in Minas (erais, accounting for over 2.7 million students-almost
80 percent of all public enrollment and over 70 percent of the total enrollment
in basic education (see Annex Table IB). Through its state education
secretariat, SEE/MG, the Minas Gerais state government administers over
6,200 educational establishments distributed across 42 disticts, each under the
jurisdiction of a regional state education authonty (DRE). The SEE/MG is
responsible for the schooling of almost 230,000 children attending preschool,
about 2.3 million children in elementary schooling, and approximately 216,000
children in secondary schooling. These numbers rprst, respectively, 63
percent, 74 percent, and 57 percent of the total enrollment. Dollar-equivalent
estimates of agggate per capita total expenditure in basic education average
about US$250, excluding expenses from the federally-funded school lunch
program, which are equivalent to about US$20 per pupil per year. Central
and regonal administion makes up about 11-12 percent of the total
cation budget. Per capita expenditures are about US$248 in elementary
school, and US$358 in secondary school (see Annex Table 2B).
1.8      The SEE/MG payroll lists about 233,000 positions, two thirds of
which are for teaching contacts. The other third is formed by contracts for
school directors (about 6,500), education specialists (about 8,200), and support
staff (about 62,000). Since teaching contracts are for 24 hours or less of work
per week, many elementary teachers hold two contracts, or the equivalent of a
full-time job, while many secondary teachers work less than 24 hours per
week About half of fte about 156,000 teaching contacts are in lower
elementary grades. Specialists may be hired on a part-time or full-time basis,
while all directors hold 40-hour contracts, and support staff work 30-hour-a-
week shiffis. On a full-time equivalent basis, the SEE/MG employs
approximately 130,000 individuals, which yields an aggregate student-staff
raio of 22 to 1, excluding staff on long-term leave and adult students enrolld
in fast-track basic education equivalency programs.
1.9      Role of Municipal Governments. Municipal governments
account for 19 pcnt of erollment, or about 605,000 students, and maintain
a higher number of schools-12,892-despite their smaller enrollment. Unlike
many other parts of the country, Minas Gerais municipal education conmares
very favably with that provided in state schools. In fact, the vast majority
of municipal school systems ahibit better results (as measured by student



-4-
scores in achievement tests) than state-rmn schools. They also have bett per
capita financial capacity (as measured by potential per pupil spending) than
their state counterparts (see Annex Tables 4A and 4B). This is due to the
fiscal reform enacted by the 1988 constitution, which increased the share of
tax revenues that are retained by municipalities and mandated that each
municipality must spend at least 25 percent of its total fiscal revenues on
education. This measure benefitted municipalities located in states with strong
economic bases and a relatively minor role in basic education provision.
These municipalities increased their revenues, and thus the mandatory share to
be spent on education, but they had few students on whom to spend the
additional resources. To achieve a better equilibrium between revenues and
expenditures, the Minas Gerais state govemment has taken the position that
municipalities with per pupil spending equal to or better than the state are
expected to meet any new demand for school places. This applies to 625 (86
percent of the total) municipalities that could spend on each basic education
pupil at least the same amount that the state government spends on its
system-an average of US$250 per pupil per year. The major implication of
is policy is the reduction in demand for expansion of the state school system,
w^hich, in accordance with the current policy of the state government, should
only occur in disadvantaged municipalities.
1.10      State Government Expendkures. About 35 percent of the state
government fiscal revenue is allocated to education, well above the
constitutionally mandated 25 percent. The sources of state revenues for
education are: (a) the value added tax (25 percent of which is passed on to
municipal governments)-the most important source of education resources;
(b) the federal block grant called the State Participation Fund (FPE); (c) a five
percent surcharge on the federal income tax; (d) a tax on property transfers;
and (e) a share of the "education salary tax," which is a 2.5 percent coxporate
payroll tax. The state treasury provides 91 percent of the state education
budget of about US$700 million on average. The remaining 9 percent comes
from fedeal transfers, mostly from the state share of the federally retained
one-third of the payroll tax earmarked for education (salno-edwcarao), which
is the largest single source of nonsalary expenditures in the sector. In 1992,
84 percent of the state education budget of about US$690 million was spent on
salaries (see Annex Table 2A). This level is in line with payroll expenditures
in basic education in Brazil and elsewhere in many developing countries, as
well as in the developed world. Nonetheless, it means that nonsalary
expenditures are quite modest, given that the per student expenditure is only
US$250. Despite this limitation, Minas Gerais has made efforts to dedicate
more educational resources to nonsalary expenditures, which have increased
from 11 percent in 1991 to 16 prcent in 1992. Among the nonsalary
expenditures of about US$110 million in 1992, the largest item is payment for
services (imcluding utilities)-38 percent of nonsalary spending. The second
largest item is direct transfers to school accounts for office and classroom
supplies, and maintenance of buildings and equipment; this amounts to 21
percent of nonsalary spending, or US$23.1 million, equivalent to about
US$8.00 per student. Since resources for essential educational inputs, such as
educational materials and teacher training, are insufficient, the project will
augment state spending in all these categories.



-5-
C. State Governmment Strategy
1.11      The SEEIMG has already implemented a set of policy measure,
all supported by directives and decrees and followed up with concrete
initiatives, that together foster autonomy and accountability-two critical
ingredients of education quality-at the school level. As a result of these
measures, the SEEIMG has established an enabling policy environment for
increasing school productivity. Accordingly, Minas Gerais is the first
Brazilian state to have concurrently: (a) instituted a policy of automatic
promotion from first to second grade; (b) instituted standardized testing of
student achievement; (c) adopted an objective process for selection and
appointment of school principals; (d) empowered school councils with the
authority and means to assist principals in school administration; (e) initiated
regular and transparent transfers of selected nonsalary resources directly to
schools; and (f) decentralized selected administrative functions to schools. The
govemment has agreed to maintain the policy directives required to support
these ongoing initiatives, all of which the project will directly support.
1.12      The Basic Literacy Cycle. As a means of addressing the serious
problem of high repetition at the end of first grade, Minas Gerais, like seveal
other Brazilian states, has instituted a basic literacy cycle (CBA), which
constitutes grouping the first and second grades into one block of two years
during which youngsters learn the basics of literacy. Promotion between years
1 and 2 of the block is expected to be automatic. The CBA approach centers
on cognitve development and social integration, rather than on the mechanics
of reading and wnrng, which many disadvantaged children could not master in
a single year as the pre-CBA system required. The CBA approach implies not
only a change in how pupils are grouped in schools, but also a revision of the
concept of early child literacy and redefinition of student evaluation, which is
to be carried out during the school year (as opposed to at the end of it) and
followed by remedial instruction.
1.13      Student Assessment. Minas Gerais has had two independent
experiences with educational testing for monitonng student learning. The first
experience was the participation in 1990 in a recently initiated national sytem
for evaluating basic education (SAEB). Despite its potential, the
implementation of SAEB has not advanced satisfactorily, mostly because of the
incapacity of the federal govemnment to define an adequate institutional setftng
for SAEB. Recognizing the cntical role that student assessment data play in a
school system, Minas Gerais decided to launch its own student assessment
system. The second experience was the creation in 1992 of the Minas Gerais
Public Education Evaluation Program (AVA-MG), which the SEE/MG
established with its own resources and staff plus technical assistance from the
Carlos Chagas Foundation (FCC), a nonprofit private educational research
center based in Sao Paulo. The initial round of AVA-MG administration
began in 1992 and is being completed in 1993. Test data from a total of five
cohorts have already been processed and, to certain extent, analyzed; reports
with test results are being fed back to schools for use by teachers and
principals.
1.14      Competitive Selection of School Directors. To curtail clientelism
and involve the school community in school administration, the SEE/MG
enacted in 1991 a system for competitive selection of school principals
(MPML"  Thik cvetAm vsnsPA thp nnminatinn of school nincirals bv the



-6-
State Secretary of Education, often done in response to political patronage of
powerful politiciauis. SECOM involves four steps: (a) interested qualfied
school professionals (that is, those holding at least an undergraduate degree in
education) take examinations aimed at evaluating their overall knowledge of
education administration and state policies; (b) the three best-scoring
candidates from each source school are askWd to present their school
improvement programs to the community-parents, school staff (including
teachers), and students over 16; (c) after the presentations, the school
community votes for the candidate of their choice; and (d) the candidates with
the largest number of votes are appointed as school principals for a term of
three years, after which they have to be either reconfirmed (once) or replaced
by the same process. The successful implementation of the SECOM was the
result of various factors. First, the government successfillly used the media to
inform parents of the SECOM's approach and to stimulate their participation
in the process. Second, the political support of the Parents and Teachers
Association, as well as the partnership between the legislative and executive
powers, provided the necessary support for the adoption of the SECOM.
Furthermore, the participation of parents was also critical during the
implementation of the SECOM and assured its continuity. Finally, the
transoarency of the entire process, which was supervised by the community,
gave it credibility.
1.15      Transfer of Nonsalary Resources to Schools. Starting in June
1992, the SEE/MG has been making regular transfers of nonsalary funds to
schools. The resources transferred to the schools fall into two categories:
earmarked funds (recursos wnculados) and discretionary funds (recursos nao
vrnculados). The latter make up the largest share of direct transfers to schools
and have been used mostly to cover school expenses with facility maintenance
and assistance to disadvantaged students. Originally, the SEE/MG adopted a
linear formula for allocating these funds. At present, the SEEtMG uses a
formula that takes into consideration the needs of individual schools, based on
the ype of students they serve and the grades they offer, thus making use of
its discretionary funds to promote equity among schools and students.
Discretionary funds are transferred automatically and regularly, and are to be
used in accordance with pre-established cntena and school budgets approved
by school councils. Earmarked funds are available for specific school projects
requested by schools; most requests are for school refurbishing and ficility
maintenance. They are allocated on the basis of budget plans submitted by
schools to the SEEIMG. This budget must receive prior approval by the
school council. Earmarked funds are transferred after a special agreement
(convunio) is signed between the SEE/MG and the beneficiary school, defining
the use for the approved funds. In both cases the resources are transferred
through the school account (caixa escolar) that is established in the name of
the school community, represented by an executive board formed by the school
principal (as president), plus a treasurer and a secretary selected from among
other school personnel or parents. At present, funds to be used by the few
schools that do not have these accounts are administered by the regional
education offices (DREs).
1.16      Empowerment of School Councils. The schools' councils
(cokgiados) are supervisory boards composed of representatives from school
personnel (teachers and administrative staff), parents, and students 16 years of
age or older, and presided over by the principal. These boards are responsible
for oVerSeeinff the schnol's demitinn in tho wr-a nf minrv,1l,um  fiAnats.-  e%A



-7-
overal school planning. The school board changes every year at the beginning
of the school period. The main purpose of the school board is to involve
parents and teachers in efficient school administration and good teaching. By
delegating to school principals, in partnership with parents and teachers, the
routine decision-making required by daily school operations, the SEE/MG has
reserved for itself the role of strategic planner and system-wide manager of
public education. In June of 1992, SEE/MG issued a resolution that
empowered schools councils with the authority to determine the use of
discretionary funds regularly transferred by the SEEIMG. Under simplified
bureaucratic flows, purchases can be carried out expediently, which is
particularly cntical in a highly inflationary economy like Brazil's. Per-school
transfer amounts are published in the official gazette, thus fostering
accountability and monitoring by the community. Schools decide where, how,
and when to apply the resources received. They can be applied to teaching
and learning materials (including books), equipment, maintenance, and even
small expansion of school facilities.
1.17      School-Based Planning and Management. Since 1992, the
SEEtMG has required each school to prepare and implement its own school
development plan (PDE), covenng five years with annual updates, for
improving school performance in management, quality of infrastructure, and
school productivity. The PDE is drawn up by individual schools under the
leadership of the school director in coordination with the school council, which
must ultimately approve the PDE. The process is supervised by the SEE.
The PDE increases the school's autonomy by maing each school responsible
for developing its budget based on its individual needs. To support the schools
in this process, the SEE/MG is drafting, with input from school personnel and
assistance from consultants, a school management manual (Manual de Gestao
da Escola), to be distributed to all schools. This manual will include
guidelines, standards, statistics, and procedures. Furthermore, SEE/MG has
decentralized to individual schools selected administrative functions that used
to be performed (albeit inefficiently) by the central and regional offices.
Among these are management of personnel files (including verification of
benefits), preparation of school year calendars, and hiring of maintenance and
repair services.
1.18      The Mlinas Gerais Education Pact. With the support of
UNICEF as well as various government offices (including SEE/MG), the State
of Minas Gerais in 1994 launched a campaign-type initiative aimed at raising
public awareness about the educational needs of children and harnessing broad
support for improving the quality of education statewide. Titled "The Minas
Gerais Pact for Education" (O Pacto, or the Pact), this initiative calls upon
parents, pupils, teachers, politicians, labor unions, consumer advocacy and
civil rights groups, and members of the business, industry, and media
communities to join the government in achieving specific objectives and targets
for educational quality. These objectives and targets are spelled out in a
document signed by delegates from a broad range of industry, business, labor,
consumer, and government groups. Signatories are committed to contributing
resources (inciuding giving of their time) to individual schools, and to
participating in the official events sponsored by the Pact's executive
committee. The state government views the Bank-supported project as its
main contribution toward achievLng the goals of the Pact. Indeed, the
objectives and targets of the Pact are consistent with those of this



-8-
project. The Pact is expected to be a valuable asset in support of continuous
government commitment to the project.
D. Sectoral Performance
1.19      Educational Attainment. Education levels of the Brazilian
population are extremely low when compared with those of other upper
middle-income countries. An estimated 20 percent of Brazilians over 7 years
of age are still illiterate. The adult population has, on average, barely four
years of schooling, approximately the same average educational attainment as
m Guatemala and Nicaragua, countries with less that half the per capita
income level of Brazil. In comparison, adult populations in Argentina and
Venezuela, neighboring countries with approximately the same per capita
income as Brazil, have an average educational level of 8.7 and 7.1 years,
respectively. Even more striking, 62 percent of the Brazilian population has
less than the national average of four years of schooling. The same indicators
of low educational attainment are found in Minas Gerais, despite its relatively
favorable socioeconomic status. Such a low level of educational attainment
threatens the establishment of a stable and democratic society, undermines
Brazil's long-term economic growth, and raises serious doubts as to the ability
of the Brazilian society, including that of Minas Gerais, to meet the challenges
of today's highly competitive world economy. Furtherniorc, since low income
levels are associated with low levels of education, poverty alleviation efforts
will continue to be constrained in Brazil, unless significant investments in
education parallel these efforts. Indeed, differences in educational attainment
are particularly important in explaining high ineome inequality among
Brazilians.
1.20      School Productivity. As in the rest of Brazil, Minas Gerais has
made significant progress over the past 40 years in expanding access to
ducation to almost universal coverage. Nonetheless, the public education
system in Minas Gerais is plagued with the same basic problem found
elsewhere in Brazil: school productivity is extremely low. This is indicated by
low leaning levels (a quality issue), as well as persistently low graduation
rates (an efficiency issue). High repetition, particularly in early grades, plays
a critical role in the low output of schools, as it is simultaneously a
consequence of low achievement and a cause of low graduation. Also, high
repetition accounts for the fact that 34 percent of the population aged 15-19 are
in school, yet two thirds of them are still in elementary school. Government
initiatives to address these problems have recurred frequently, but with few (if
any) lasting effects. rhe current SEE/MG administration is committed to
changing this scenario.
1.21      Poor Academic Achievement. Although results from the 1990
administration of the National Evaluation System for Basic Education (SAEB)
placed Minas Gerais above the national average in student academic
achieveijent, they indicate that the school system is not fulfilling its literacy
and numeracy functions. In standardized tests of Portuguese and mathematics,
students attending higher elementary grades master on average only half the
curriculum content. Even more disturbing is the finding that the performance
of these students was worse than that of students in lower grades, despite the
fict that the school system is highly (and inappropriately) selective, as it
excludes low-performing students in the early years. Results from Minas



-9-
completing two grades and thus beconling part of the 54 percent who reach
third grade, these students had mastered only half the language curriculum and
one third of the mathematics curriculum.
1.22      High Repetition and Low Graduation. Almost one third of al
grade 1-8 students are repeaters. In grade I alone, 43 percent of the pupils
are repeaters. A mere 2.4 percent complete eighth grade without repetition,
and only about 40 percent ever graduate from 8th grade after spending, on
average, 11 years in school, at an average total cost of about US$2,750 per
student. This is about 40 percent more than the expected average of about
US$2,000, as annual spending per pupil averages about US$250. Of those
who stay in school, some take as many as 18 years to complete the same eight
grades (see Asmex Tables 2A and 2B). Of those who drop out-the majority
after spending 6 years in school-27 percent have not completed third grade.
Taling into account the dropout due to repetition and the low schooling
quality, it takes the state of Minas Gerais 21 resource-years to produce one
eighth grade graduate with only a fifth grade education level, at an aggregate
cost of almost US$5,200-or about 150 percent more than it would cost if
repetition were zero. Thirty-iour percent of the population aged 15-19 are in
school, yet one third of them have not completed the primary cycle. The great
majority of students are locked in a cycle of low learning achievement and
costly repetition, with 60 percent of these children never completing primary
school. Students repeating grades are estimated to cost the Minas Gerais
public education system over US$280 million per year, or 30 percent of
current public spending on public primary education.
E. Sectoral Issues
1.23      In Minas Gerais, as in Brazil in general, sectoral inefficiencies
result from mutually reenforcing policies and practices that fail to address the
core problem of low school productivity. Low school productivity in Brazilian
public education is as much a result of the poor teaching and leaming
environments as of inappropriate practices and policies. Several factors
account for this problem, some of which are extemal to the sector, such as the
low socio-economic background of the children's families. But most can be
attributed to poor instruction that results from five inter-related problems:
(a) insufficient provision of essential instructional inputs, such as adequate
quantities of books and classroom time; (b) inadequately trained teachers who
lack competence and incentives for promoting improvements in their classroom
performance; (c) inappropriate use of rigid pedagogical practices; (d) absence
of cost-effective management tools and policies; and (e) unduly complex
governance and management. These sectoral problems, all within the scope of
public policy action, are compounded by the inadequacy of spending on
primary education.
1.24      Shortage of Instructional Materials. Although provision of
textbooks to public schools remains the responsibility of the federal
government, central authorities' performance to date has been highly
ineffective. In 1992, the Federal Textbook Provision Program (PNLD)
distributed 8.8 million books, or less than 10 percent of the estimated need.
Although in some years textbook provision has been higher, on average over
the last five years, PNLD has met less than one-third of the estimated national
textbook requirements. Defcient and erratic funding, institutional weaknesses
of the implementing agency, and ineffective distribution systems have resulted



-10-
in system-wide unavailability of textbooks on a timely basis and in appropriate
quantities. Furthermore, the production specifications of these bcoks are
inadequate, given their expected durability span and the storage and
conservation deficiencies found in all schools. Because textbook provision has
been defined as a federal responsibility, states have excused themselves from
the obligation of assuring that such a critical educational input is available in
public schools, despite the inadequacy and ineffectiveness of the federally
centralized system of textbook financing, production, and distribution. The net
result is that, year after year students begin classes without books. When, and
if, books arrive later, they come in insufficient quantities and became unusable
long before the end of the school year, because their technical specifications
are below the standards required to sustain transportation to and from schools.
1.25      In response to a proposal submitted by the National Council of
State Education Secretaries (CONSED), the Ministry of Education (MEC)
issued a resolution (Resolugao No. 6 do FNDE of July 13, 1993) reaffirming
the federal government's obligation to finance, procure, and distribute
textbooks for all public students in Brazil. This resolution specifies the source
of funds for textbook financing nationally, and earmarks monies, on a per
public student basis, for this purpose. The source of these earmarked monies
is a fund set up by the federal government on behalf of states to protect one
third of the states' own collections from the national payroll tax for education.
The recent approval of this resolution is a major advance in the sector, as it
mitigates the problem of insufficient and erratic funding for textbook provision
in Brazil. The existence of the resolution does not eliminate the need,
however, for policymakers to revisit the appropriateness of federal
responsibility for textbook provision in a country of continental dimensions
with large regional differences in development, income, institutional capacity,
and needs, and with the many government levels operating school systems. In
any case, MEC and states are now in the process of testing a schedule for
selection, procurement, and distribution of textboolks needed for the 1994
school year. The long-term viability of this schedule has yet to be determined.
1.26      Providing students with textbooks is necessary but not sufflcient to
develop a genuine interest in reading. To become literate, children must not
only be taught the mechanics of language, but also be given the opportunity to
pcice their reading skills on a range of stimulating supplementary reading
materials that appeal to their imagination and interest. Recognizing the
relevance of supplementary reading materials, Minas Gerais has established
libraries in public schools, but in limited quantities and quality, due to budget
constraints. Indeed, a recent survey undertaken by the SEE/MG shows that
only 800 (out of almost 4,300) schools with more than five classrooms have a
minimally adequate library. Supplementary reading materials are totally absent
from classrooms, despite their proven contribution to improved learning.
1.27      Low Quality of Teaching. In Minas Gerais, notwithstanding the
fact that the 95 percent of SEE/MG's elementary teachers hold the credentials
required for the level they teach and 50 percent are higher education
graduates, many teachers master neither subject matter nor basic teaching
skdlls, including sound techniques for evaluating student learning. Their
command of effective instruction pracices is poor, reflecting the inadequacy of
the existing pre- and in-service teacher training programs. Results of a recent
competency test (concurso) administered in Minas Geais during the 1992-93
academic year to screen candidates for teaching positions in the state school



-11-
system indicate that 36 percent of the candidates for teaching positions in basic
education scored below the minimum for competency in reading and writing,
knowledge of the official program, and mastery of basic pedagogical sllls.
Poor command of subject matter contributes to teachers' ineffectiveness,
forcing them to use outmoded and autocratic teacher-centered teaching
strategies, rather than more active, student-entered strategies. Moreover,
there is no performance evaluation (and thus no accountability) of teachers in
Brazil today. The teacher salary structure rewards seniority and certification
only; evaluation of teachers' classroom performance is totally absent from the
incentive scale. Finally, in light of the macro-fiscal difficulties and the
generally low slary levels of teachers, pubLic schools have difficulties in
attracting and retaining qualified teaching staff, who often accept better-paying
jobs in educational administration, private schools, or other sectors. This
problem is compounded by patronage practices, as well as the absence of
community involvement.
1.28      Inappropriate Pedagogical Practices. Despite the magnitude and
spread of the problem of repetition, there has been little effort in BrAl to
explicitly shift the focus of repetition from students and their home
environment to teachers and school environments. Pedagogical standards are
demanding and pedagogical practices condone inflexible promotion criteria
(particularly for students in early grades). For example, children are expected
to learn to read and write in the first year of primary school, despite the fact
that most have not attended preschool and many low-income children have
never seen a book. Despite the adoption of the CBA pedagogical approach,
teacher resistance and poor instruction stilU result in some pupils (between 11
and 18 percent) being retained for more than one year in the first year of the
literacy cycle. Many others are not allowed to progress to third grade after
several years in CBA. The concept of formative remedial assistance to
children who lag behind is often alien to Brazilian teachers. Classroom
techniques for helping children with different abilities (such as worldng in
small groups, after-school sessions, and cross-peer tutoring) are virtually
nonexisternt. Students still occupy a large portion of their classroom time
memorizing facts and copying lessons from blackboards. Tests designed by
individual teachers, who do not know the specifics of achievement testing, are
the sole means by which students are judged competent for grade promotion.
1.29      Lack of Effective Management. Educational administrators lack,
on a regular basis, access to current and accurate information on the quality,
deployment, and utilization of resources. Even when infbrmation is available,
they do not have: (a) the analytical basis required to apply this information;
(b) the incentives to make decisions based on reliable information; and/or
(c) the authority to adopt effective interventions. The SEE/MG collects,
compiles, and reports data that are relatively current and reliable, albeit
incomplete and provided on an ad hoc basis. Also, not all collected data are
relevant and not all relevant data are collected. For example, the lack of a
common measuring stick for academic achievement makes it impossible to
ascertin whether teachers are actually using nonachievement-related crteria to
fail students. More often than not, however, data are not routinely analyzed
and disseminated. Moreover, empirically-based, operationally-oriented stdie
based on sound methodology are in short supply in Brazil (as throughout the
developing world). Reliable data are not readily available, and no attempts are
made to facilitate the access and retrieval of the available data by researchers.
'Fh mlltit kQ that fr7il;an np1radini., ncanir'tinn ik nnt sufficientIv emnirical in



-12-
nature, and consists mostly of issues papers and academical pieces tlhat lack
empirical verification.
1.30      Unduly Complex Governance. Education sector governance in
Brazil is unduly complex. Although all three levels of government (federal,
state and municipal) are involved in financing, managing, and delivering
education at all five levels of schooling, coordination among government levels
is quite weak, hence inefficiencies abound. The definition of roles is, in some
cases, blurred (as in case of construction of physical facilities in new urban
areas) and, in other cases, questionable (as in the case of textbook provision,
which is a federal responsibility in a country as large and diverse as Brail).
For example, in the absence of coordination of physical planiing between state
and municipal systems, some areas have an excess of classrooms while others
endure chronic shortages of school space.
1.31      Inadequate Educational Spending. Basic education funding in
Brazil, both in the aggregate and on a per pupil basis, is low for a country of
Brazil's per capita income. Such underfunded systems cannot pay salaries
adequate to attract competent teachers or administrators. Although the
spending efficiency can and should be improved, educational quality is limited
only to that which can be obtained with an average per primary student
expenditure of about US$250 per year. Because education is a labor-intensive
activity, education expenditures are heavily skewed toward personnel costs.
Therefore, allocations for critical nonsalary educational inputs, such as books,
school repairs, and other instructional materials, are minimal in such
underfunded systems. This inadequacy is exacerbated by the unwarranted
school pyramid resulting from extremely high repetition rates, especially in
early grades. With more efficient student flows through the primary school
system, more spending on education could be focused on improving the quality
of instruction.
F. Bank Strategy and Role
1.32      Bank Strategy. The Bank's assistance strategy in Brazil is to
support policies and investments that encourage economic growth and social
development in a context of macroeconomic stability. The lending program
strongly emphasizes the social sectors in Brazil, given the country's significant
underinvestment in developing hur 3ml resources to date. Within the education
sector, the Bank's highest priority is primary education, reflecting both the
need to improve Brazil's low primary completion rates, and the recognition
that primary education has the highest social returns and the greatest potential
for increasing the equality of economic opportunity. Within primary
education, the Bank's objectives are to improve quality and efficiency by:
(a) improving student cognitive achievement; (b) reducing high repetition and
dropout rates; and (c) increasing spending per student across systems. In
pursuing these objectives, the Bank has followed a three-pronged strategy that
aims to: (a) support the introduction of innovative approaches for improving
the quality of primary education instruction, which may serve as models for
school systems elsewhere in Brazil; (b) finance reform-oriented sector
investment loans that promote an appropriate balance of policy changes,
hardware and software investments, institutional development and technical
assistance activities; and (c) assist regions where problems of quality in
education are most acute, particularly the Northeast. More recently, the Bank
has soufht tn wninnrt free -ttandina state nrmonptq- scidh as th- ThTTIVArl'iTq



-13-
project in Sao Paulo (see also para. 1.35). With the addition of the three
proposed projects in the States of Espfrito Santo, Minas Gerais and Parana, the
Bank will be associated with basic education projects in 13 Brazilian states, for
a total combined financing of about US$1 billion. All these projects will
support the Bank's strategy and priorities in the sector, and will require
substantial Bank involvement in supervision.
1.33      Bank Education Lending to Brazil. Bank lending to Brazil for
education began in the early 1970s. Early projects were in the areas of
vocational-oriented secondary, technical, and agricultural education. More
recent projects have involved assistance to the federal technical schools and
state-level technical schools (Technician Training, FY83, Ln. 2366-BR), basic
research at federal universities (Science and Technology, FY85, Ln. 2489-
BR), and the vocational education system (Skills Formation, FY87, Ln. 2810-
BR). Both the Technician Training and Skills Formation projects suffered
from slow execution, and were canceled at the request of the federal
govemment in 1991. In line with a shift in overall Bank policy, Bank lending
to Brazl since the 1980s has focused increasingly on prit.ary education,
particularly in disadvantaged regions.
1.34      The Bank's first primary education project was the Northeast Basic
Education I Project (FY80, Ln. 1867-BR, also known as EDURURAL), which
was completed in 1987. This US$32 million loan sought to improve primary
schools in rural areas of the northeast by financing classroom construction and
upgrading, providing textbooks and other teaching materials, providing in-
service teacher training, and strengthening institutions in selected poor
municipalities throughout the nine northeastern states. An important feature of
the project was support for a large-scale, longitudinal study to evaluate the
impact on student learning and the cost effectiveness of the various types of
investment financed by the project. The second primary education project was
the Urban Basic Education Project (FY83, 2412-BR, also known as
MONHANGARA). The objectives of this US$40 million Bank loan were to
support the expansion and improve the quality of primary school systems in
selected rapidly growing urban areas in the north and center-west regions.
Investments under the project were targeted to low-income neighborhoods.
After many delays and a two-year extension, the project ended in early 1991,
and approximately 18 percent of the Bank loan was canceled.
1.35      The third education project was the S&o Paulo Innovations in Basic
Education Prcject (FY91, Ln. 3374-BR, also known as INOVACOES project),
now in its second year of implementation. This US$245 million loan supports
a range of interventions, including the extension of the school day for grades 1
and 2 and consolidation within the greater Sao Paulo city area of the CBA
pedagogical approach. Like the EDURURAL project, this project includes an
important research and evaluation component that will contribute to
understanding what types of education investments are most cost-effective in
helping low-income children to learn and perform better in school. The most
recent operations are the twin projects, Northeast Basic Educatioa II (FY94,
La. 3604-BR US$212 million, known as NEBE-I1) and Northeast Basic
Education m (FY94, Ln. 3663-BR US$206.6 million, known as NEBE-III),
both of which aim to provide essential quality-enhancing educadon inputs to
state and municipal schools and increase the efficiency of state secretariats of
education. Because of the weak financial and institutional capacity in the



-14-
federal Ministry of Education, with limited state participation. Because of S&o
Paulo's greater financial and institutional capacity, the INOVAC6ES project
was conceived as a free-standing state project, which is the same approach
proposed for the basic education projects under preparation in the states of
Espfito Santo and Parani, as well as for the currently proposed project for
Minas Gerais.
1.36      Lessons Learned. Cumulative Bank experience with education
projects in the developing world -indicates that the following factors, all of
which have been taken into account in the desigi. of this project, are keys to
success in education projects (see Annex Note B.1): (a) appropriate balance
between policy reforms and investments; (b) simple and robust project design,
with sufficient flexibility to respond to changing circumstances; (c) adequate
provision of educational software, particularly textbooks, selective teacher
training, time allotted to learning, and curriculum development; (d) early
establishment of programming, monitoring, and evaluation systems; (e) strong
project management, staffed with qualified personnel with access to the highest
levels of decision makers; (f) early attention to careful synchronization of
project activities; (g) realistic assessment of the time required for project
implementation; (h) limitation of covenants to monitorable areas directly
related to the project; and (i) enhanced Bank performance in project
supervision t1irough early development of supervision plans, mid-term reviews,
and regular visits to project sites. In addition, effective community
participation in countries where such a tradition already exists has been found
to be instrumental in gaining popular support for necessary reforms and for
project sustainability.
aL TeE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1       The overall goal of the proposed project is the improvement of
educational attainment in the State of Minas Gerais, as defined by significant
increases in student learning and graduation from elementary school. To
achieve this goal, the proposed project will provide a package of essential
educational inputs and services to children attending grades 1-8 in public
elementary schools, as well as support to a range of ongoing government
initiatives to change investment patterns, management systems, and the policy
framework. Accordingly, the project's specific objectives are to: (a) provide
managers in the central and regional offices with tools designed for
inbfrmatton-based decision maling; (b) help school directors assume their new
roles as both leaders and managers i a more decentralized state education
system; (c) increase teachers' access to training opportunities; (d) deliver a
package of instructional mateials, especially textbooks and books, to students
in public classrooms; and (e) upgrade facility management to ensure the
equitable access of pupils to classroom time as well as rational utilization of
school space.
2.2       Proect objectives have been explicitly endorsed by the State
government in a Policy Statement on Basic Education Quality Improvement.
A draft version of this Statement was discussed at negotiations (see para.
4.1(a)). This Policy Statement sets out the State government's commitment to:



-15-
wide standardized testing of student achievement; (c) selection and appointment
of state school diectors according to technical cziteria; (d) regular and
transparent transfers of selected nonsalary resources directly to all state
schools; (e) management of these resources by school councils formed by the
school director, parents, and teachers; and (f) continued decentralization of
selected administrative functions to schools. The government has agreed to
maintain the policy directives required to support these ongoing initiatives, all
of which the project will directly support. The Policy Statement also sets out
the State's commitment to maintenance of strong financial state support to
basic education. Receipt in the Bank of the final version of this Policy Letter
is a condition of Board presentation (see para 4.3).
B. Project Components
2.3       The prject consists of the following five components2:
(a)       Improving System-Wide Management (US$21.5 million, or 7
percent of project cost) to support student assessment, educational
monitoring systems, and operational studies to stimulate
information-based decision making.
(b)       Strengthening School Administration (US$47.3 million, or 16
percent of project cost) to support systematic school planning
(including school development grants), leadership development,
and office technology systems.
(c)       Developing Teaching Competence (US$57.2 million, or 19
percent of project cost) to increase public school teachers' accss
to training in classroom management (including textbook use ard
subject knowledge), enhance curiculum development, and support
evaluation research.
(d)       Providing Instructional Materias (US$121.6 million, or 40
percent of project cost) to improve leaning by supporting the
delivery of instructional materals, especiay books, to students in
public classrooms.
(e)       Upgrading Facilty Mnagement (US$49.9 million, or 16.5
percent of total project cost) in support of classroom construction
and rational school space use to ensure that all pupils attending
state schools have access to standard four and a half hour school
shifts.
2.4       Investments will be concentrated in the state school system,
although selected inputs (namely, textbooks, basic teacher training, and student
assessment) will be extended to children attending municipal schools. The
project will direct several activities to schools in disadvantaged areas,
mcluding most classroom and library construction. It will also reward schools
that contribute to the achievement of project objectives, though its school
innovation grant program. This program will male extra nonsalary financial
resources available, on a competitive basis, to schools proposing interventions
aimed at direcdy increasing learning and, thus, reducing repetition. Given that
2. All codt figures include contigencies.



-16-
a comprehensive statewide program of school rehabilitation is underway,
school renovation will not be financed under the project, unless it is directly
linked to new construction.
C. Description of Project Components
1. Component A: Improving System-Wide Management (US$21.5 million)
2.5       Through this component, the project will support SEE/MG's
efforts to assume key oversight functions, particularly those associated with
monitoring the quantity, quality, and nature of essent;Ji inputs and outputs.
This component will have three subcomponents: (a) reforming education
monitoring, (b) strengthening student assessment, and (c) fostering
information-based decision making.
2.6       (a) Reforming Education Monitoring (US$1.3 million). To
enable managers at all levels (SEE/MG, DREs, and individual schools) to
monitor the performance of the school system, the project will support
improvements in data collection, information generation, and reporting systems
in the state school system. Emphasis will be given to timeliness, usefulness,
and dissemination of relevant education information on the deployment and use
of selected education resources. This component will focus on systematic
tracking of selected inputs, processes, and outcomes that are critical to
improving educational efficiency. One of the main outputs of this component
will be an education monitoring system, which will be used, inter alia, to
monitor system performance through the use of primary, secondary, and
terdary indicators linked to time-bound targets (see para. 3.18). In addition to
monitoring student learning, repetition, and graduation levels, this system will
also monitor trends on staffing profiles and ratios, balance between salary and
nonsaiary expenditures on public education by the state government,
enrollment, and unit costs. The project will finance the purchase of necessary
educational hardware and software, plus an estimated 60 person-months of
technical assistance for the design of survey instruments and related forms,
definition of data gathering and compilation procedures, and development of
SEE/MG's capacity to generate, analyze and use such information. This
technical assistance will be executed in accordance with umbrella terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. Through this component, the project will
also set up mechanisms for synchronizing essential project activities, such as
provision of teaching development and instructional materials.
2.7       (b) Strengthening Student Assessment (US$18.8 million). The
project will improve and consolidate the new student assessment program, the
Minas Gerais Public Education Evaluation Program (AVA-MG), established in
1991 by SEE/MG. Three cycles of the AVA-MG administration are expected
to be completed during project execution, fkOowing the initial cycles currendy
in progress using methodology and instruments already available. Each cycle
lasts two years and consists of three testing rounds covering about 900,000
students throughout the state from grades 3 and 5 (tested in even-numbered
years), as well as grades 8 and 10 of regular secondary education plus grade
11 of teaching vocational education (tested in odd-numbered years). Tests
measuring cognitive achievement in four subjects (language and mathematics,
plus the natural and social sciences) were designed with the assistance of the
Carlos Chagas Foundation in Sio Paulo. The cycle planned for 1994 will
utilize the same instruments and again be limited to the state school system.



-17-
Subsequent cycles will make use of improved methodology and instruments,
and will be extended to interested municipal school systems at no cost to the
municipalities. To the first end, and as specified in the PIP, by June 30,
1994, the state will sign technical assistance contracts with local and foreign
consultants, whether on an individual or institutional basis, in accordance with
umbrella terms of reference to be approved by the Bank. To the second
purpose, by December 31, 1995, the state will enter into agreement with as
many municipalities as required to compose a sample, satisfactory to the Bank,
of at least 10 percent of the students in municipal elementary schools (see
para. 4.2(e)).
2.8        The SEE/MG team will be responsible for the general
management and operation of the system, including dissemination of results.
It will also organize informational meetings for different constitutncies and
interest groups with the purpose of disseminating findings, promoting the
legitimacy of the AVA-MG as a public policy instrument, and fostering the
creation of an evaluation culture within the education community. All efforts
will be made to ensure that the resulting information is used by principals,
supervisors, administrators, and policymakers. The research and development
required to refine the AVA-MG methodology will be carried out with
extensive assistance from about 90 person-months of local and foreign
consultants, both on short- as well as long-tenn bases. To this end, and as
specified in the PIP, the SEE/MG will, inter alia, sign technical cooperation
agreements with one or more institutions specializing in the technical
requirements of student assessment. Domestic institutions will be required to
enter into technical cooperation arrangemeris with foreign excellence centers
in student assessment. As described in the PIP, such agreements are expected
to be in place by June 30, 1994, in accordance with umbrella terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. To support the development of human
resources in education measurement, assessment, and testing, the project will
finance higher-level training courses in local and overseas institutions with
reputable experience in the field. Short in-service courses and workshops will
also be conducted during the years of project execution for about 200 SEE/MG
and DRE staff involved in student assessment. These staff will also benefit
from professional growth opportunities, such as: (a) hands-on experience
through internships, workshops, and study tours to familiarize staff with
innovations, best practices, and technological advances in effective school
systems throughout the world that are relevant to the Brazilian context; and
(b) upgrading opportunities through attendance at national and international
seminars and conferences.
2.9       Given the difficulties associated with developing, establishing, and
managing a methodologically sound and logistically viable assessment system,
and to verify that SEE/MG succeeds in developing the p-:oper institutional
setting for the AVA-MG, SEE/MG will appoint and mantain a high-level
technical committee (AVA-CTA), under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, to oversee the development of a capacity in student assessment within
SEE/MG. During its annual meeting, the AVA-UrA will carefully review the
results of the AVA-MG and organize its comments and recommendations in a
brief action report to be submitted to the high-level advisory committee (CA).
Taklng into account these recommendations, SEE/MG will prepare an action
plan to mitigate the problems, if any, pointed out in the AVA-CrA report.
The AVA-CrA report and the follow-up SEE/MG action plan will be
submitted to the Bank each vear as an annex to the Annual Proeress Renort-



-18-
2.10      (c) Fostering Information-Based Decision Making (US$1.4
million). This component will finance about 12-15 major studies to assist in
the development, or assess the relative impact of, various educational
management policies and practices. These will include school development
planning, total quality management, educational monitoring, CBA, and use of
information by education administrators. Also supported will be studies of the
relative cost effectiveness of various types of investment financed by the
project, and the links between research, policy, and practice in basic
education. Terms of reference for these operational studies will be subject to
prior review by the Bank. Long-term studies will be carried out with the
support of accredited research institutions, such as IPEA and the Jolo Pinheiro
Foundation.
2. Component B: Strengthening School Administration (US$47.3 million)
2.11      Through this component, the project will support the SEE/MG
program of decentralization of selected responsibilities from the central office
directly to schools, thus supporting increased school autonomy and
accountability, coupled with increased community participation through school
councils that include parents. The project will support the government in its
commitment to provide state schools with the administrative means necessary
for performing their newly acquired functions in planning, managing, and
monitoring school quality. This component has three subcomponents:
(a) improving school planning, (b) strengthening school leadership, and
(c) providing office technology.
2.12      (a) Improving School Planning (US$10.1 million). To support
school autonomy coupled with school accountability, the SEE/MG recently
adopted a policy that requires that all state schools prepare their own annual
improvement plans (PDEs). After being approved by the school council,
PDEs are implemented with resources transferred by SEE/MG. The project
will support this policy by financing the production of PDE preparation
guidelines for distribution to school administration staff, paralleled by training
about 120 DRE staff on how to help schools prepare their PDEs. DRE staff,
under the supervision of SEE/MG officials, are responsible for assessing the
adequacy and viability of these plans. DRE staff will supervise both the
preparation and the implementation of PDEs, but the ultimate responsibility
wiU be with school councils. Feedback to the SEE/MG on the relevance of
the PDE process wiUl be obtained by means of a field survey of a smaU sample
of state schools. Consultants will be contracted by SEE/MG to carry out this
survey. Periodically the CA will also visit schools for the same purpose.
2.13      Through this component, the project wiU also allocate about US$8
miUion to a school innovation support program (PAIE) aimed at fostering
greater local participation in finding solutions for the problems of low school
productivity, by making extra nonsalary financial resources available, on a
competitive basis, for financing school-based initiatives designed to directly
increase learning and, thus, reduce repetition. It is expected that most grant
requests wil be awarded for setting up remedial programs for slow learners,
development of educational materials by teams of teachers, provision of
technical assistance in school-based management to school councils, and/or
enrichment of the classroom environment with teaching materials. Preference
will be granted to proposals that: (a) include counterpart funding by school
eniinmlc- th) nrmnnep. rrfnrmnnsn t2rortat- nntA ft- Airpttv atlArpee tho 64-tna



-19-
that account for low school productivity (see para. 1.20). A portion of the
resources will be resered for innovative proposals from schools in
disadvantaged areas. Schools will be given greater autonomy in deciding how,
where, and when to spend resources, which will be made available by
SEE/MG on a competitive basis. A total of about 2,000 grants of an average
of US$4,000 each will be made available to eligible schools. The first year of
the project will be used for preparation of guidelines for the operation of the
support program for school innovation, including the definition of eligibility,
identification of grant award criteria, mechanisms for disseminating
information about the program, and training of DRE-based school supervisors.
As a condition of loan disbursement for school awards, the state will prepare
these guidelines and submit them for Bank approval (see para. 4.5). SEEYMG
expwects to award 300 grants in the second year of the project, 500 grants in
the third year of the project, 800 grants in the fourth year of the project, and
400 grants in the last year of the project. Each school-based project should be
one year long, but schools will be entitled to receive grants during consecutive
years, up to a maximum of three years.
2.14      The program will be executed by SEE/MG with the collaboration
of DREs and technical assistance from consultants. As part of its
responsibility for operating the program, the SEE/MG will issue, on a
semester basis, a newsletter to be distributed to all schools with information on
successful school experiences funded by the support program for school
innovations. All state schools which develop their respective PAIEs will be
eligible. Selection will be carried out in two steps: (a) the qualification stage
to be executed by DREs; and (b) the merit assessment stage to be carried out
by a committee formed by local and foreign consultants, under the supervision
of SEE/MG staff. At the end of the first year of project implementation, each
school will receive a manual with guidelines on how to prepare and submit
PAIE proposals, the terms of the awards, and definition of selection criteria.
Each proposal should include a detailed plan of execution with deadlines and
specification of execution and supervision responsibilities, plus a budget and
school identification information. The school development grants will finance
goods and services, including, but not limited to, instructional supplies,
consultant fees, transportation, training, and small school equipment. Building
operation, renovation and maintenance will not be financed under this grant
program. In addition to the grants themselves, the project will finance the
operation of the fund, including development of guidelines for submitting
proposals and selection criteria. Recipient schools will follow the same
procurement guidelines for small purchases of materials, equipment, and
consultant services established by the SEE/MG. These guidelines are
consistent with Bank guidelines for small purchases. Detailed records of
expenditures will be kept at the schools and will be available for inspection by
staff from DREs and SEE/MG, and by the Bank's supervision missions.
2.15      (b) Strengthening School Leadership (US$13.3 million). The
project will support the expansion and improvement of the ongoing in-service
training and technical assistance for about 12,000 staff working in the
administration of state schools. These will include school directors and deputy
directrs, supemrisors, and school council officers. Given that school
principalsip terms are three years long, this training will be provided every
three years, and twice during the life of the project, starting in early 1994.
Training will focus on the basic principles and practices of leadership, and
school-based plannina and manazement of Dhvsical and human retirnt



-20-
Principals will receive about 160 hours of training over a two-year period,
organized into four modules of 40 hours each, covering the following areas:
(a) the key elements of the Minas Gerais education program-principles and
tools; (b) Total Quality Management (TQM) in education (see para. 2.16);
(c) management and maintenance of school facilities; and (d) procurement and
accounting at the school level. As new principals were selected in late 1993,
two taining modules were provided in January 1994, another one will be
available in July of the same year, and the last two in January 1995. The
same cycle will be repeated in 1996-97.
2.16      Also as part of this component, the project will support the
establishment of a Total Quality Management (IQM) program in about 1,000
self-selected schools. Before extending the TQM approach to schools,
SEE/MG will: (a) commission an external evaluation of the pilot TQM under
execution in a sample of 17 schools; (b) establish TQM in the SEE/MG and
DREs; and (c) provide TQM trawning for all 9,000 school directors and deputy
school directors only (module (b) in para. 2.15). TQM informational and
motivational seminars, about two per year, will be organized for school staff,
parents, and teachers. After the evaluation is completed and its findings
incorporated into the program design, the project will finance the expansion of
the TQM program to a group of schools to be selected based on their
readiness, as assessed by the interest of the school council in espousing the
program. These activities will be implemented with technical assistance
mainly (but not solely) from the Cristiano Otoni Foundation (FCO), which
specializes in the technical requirements of TQM and has acquired, through
cooperation agreements with the Japanese Union of Scientists and Engineers,
know-how in TQM inputs, processes, and products. Basic TQM training
consists of a 40-hour course followed by study seminars, for a total of 80
hours. Basic TQM technical assistance consists of visits by TQM expert teams
to individual schools. This type of training focuses on the performance of the
school as a productive unit with goals and targets, supported by limited
resources and accountable to its constituency and clients. FCO will develop
this program and train one team of TQM "multipliers" (trainers/popularizers)
per DRE. These multipliers will, in turn, carry out school-based training and
technical assistance. FCO will also be responsible for quality control.
2.17      (c) Providing Offilce Technology (US$23.9 million). Adequate
office technology is necessary to support the efficient allocation and use of
resources in a more rational and decentralized state school system, where
certain administrative functions are being assumed by administrative staff at
schools, and where monitoring of school performance should become routine.
As the timely availability of accurate and up-to-date information becomes the
building block of accountability in the system, schools will require the means
to maintain simple but complete data bases, capable of keeping track of student
and teacher records, including background characteristics, attendance,
classroom performance, and costs. Minas Gerais state schools are ill-prepared
to perform these added functions without access to basic office technology.
Large schools (that is, those with more than 20 classrooms, or between 1,200
and 2,700 students) in disadvantaged areas have been declared a priority by the
SEE/MG, as they are required to manage relatively large data bases, including
personnel files, procutement records, and accounting records. The project will
contribute by equipping large schools with basic office technology hardware
and software, namely photocopiers (about 275 schools), microcomputer
fr+:e (oh,qr,,*  n (    h  t1gPnhnm" tahnnt'S nfl nnwephnnilt at sk tnftl



-21-
average cost of US$24,000 per school. Technical training for staff and limited
technical assistance will also be available.
3. Component C: Developing Teaching Competence (US$57.2 million)
2.18      The project will provide the resources for increasing teachers'
opportunities to upgrade their instruction delivery skills through mastery of
basic curricular content and effective use of instructional materials. The
ultimate goal of the in-service training program is to gradually alter teachers'
classroom performance and, hence, increase the probability that student
learning may rise significantly. Teacher participation in training will be
voluntary, yet encouraged through incentives-teacher participants will receive
a small grant to cover stipend costs and will accrue points that contribute to
promotion. After undergoing the basic training, the teachers' skills and
knowledge wil continue to be enhanced through a continuous in-service
training program that will provide short courses in response to teacher
requests. Training will also be used as a means of disseminating among
teachers the key elements of the current Minas Gerais education policy.
Trained teachers will be expected to have mastered effective classroom
management methods (particularly the use of instructional materials) and to
have increased their knowledge of four curriculum subjects (Portuguese and
mathematics, plus the natural and social sciences).
2.19      The project will finance the production and distribution of teaching
handbooks, videotapes of classroom processes, taining workshops, the
establishment of pedagogical reference centers for contitnued teacher
development, and evaluation research. SEE/MG expects to complete the
production of the materials and training of the multipliers in approximately one
year, and to implement the basic training at the school-level in approximately
two years. The continuous training program will then begin in the third year
of the project. Umbrella terms of reference for technical assistance in teacher
Training are expected to be submitted to the Bank for review by June 15, 1994.
The State Secretariat of Education (SEE) will coordinate and supervise the
implementation and evaluation of the teacher training program. Actual
training courses will be provided by institutions of higher education and
teacher training institutes to be contracted by SEE/MG. The selected
institutions will design the training materials and deliver the truaining
workshops. The SEE/MG will prepare all necessary guidelines and terms of
reference, satisfactory to the Bank, and will oversee compliance with these
terms by the contracted institutions. This component is organized into three
subcomponents: (a) enhancement of curriculum development; (b) in-service
teacher training; and (c) educational research to assess the effectiveness of
teacher training programs and other educational interventions.
2.20      (a) Enhancing Curriculum Development (US$8.7 million). The
project will support the development of curriculum guides in four subjects:
mathematics, Portuguese, social sciences, and natural sciences. Curricular
modules will be used as tools for planning and conducting classes in the
disciplines. The execution of this component will be contracted out to higher
education institutions to be selected on a competitive basis and based on pre
agreed criteria satisfactory to the Bank. Four specialized institutions (EEs)
with acknowledged expertise in the subject area will be competitively selected
to develop the guides. Each institution will develop one subject guide. To
ensure that the design and content of the training progmm supports the



-22-
material presented in the guides, the lEs responsible for preparing the guides
will also undertake to prepare the training program under the overall
supervision of the SEE. Ongoing studies and research in the curriculum
subjects will be pursued by Curriculum Laboratories (LCs), which will be
located in the respective ficulty of each institution in charge of developing the
curriculum guides. The LCs wuill periodicaRly update the curriculum guides
and those updates will be then incorporated into the design and content of the
teacher training program. The SEE/MG will coordinate every stage of the
guides' development and production process as well as oversee the design and
content of the subsequent taining progmm. The SEE/MG will also oversee
compliance with its guidelines on cross-institutional standardization, thereby
assuring consistency in methodology and approach among the four institutions.
The project will finance the design, printing, revision, and distribution of
about 200,000 curriculum guides (to be produced in two separate printings) for
teachers. It will also finance the production of video programs.
2.21      (b) Providing In-service Teacher Training (US$45.6 million).
The project will support two complementary teacher training programs: basic
raining for teachers of grades one through four in state schools, followed by
continuous training for a group of about half of these teachers. Teachers from
elementary municipal schools will be encouraged to participate in this training.
About 3 million elementary students will benefit from the improved classroom
performance expected from trained teachers. Participation will be voluntary,
but SEE/MG expects most of the 89,000 teachers to participate, given their
declared interest and the direct contribution that training attendance makes to
career paths. The basic training will be school-based to promote the idea of
schools' responsibility for the development and performance of their teachers.
This is critical to Minas Gerais' overall objective of decentralizing education
decision-maldng and responsibility to schools. By choosing school-based
twining as the cornerstone of the teacher development program, the SEE/MG
acknowledges not only the validity of research in the field of teacher training,
but also promotes the role that schools must play in improving their
effectiveness. Workshops will be centered on the use of curriculum guides
developed under the project to improve teachers' skills in classroom
management (including use of didactic materials) and knowledge in cumcular
content. Through the multiplier method of teacher training delivery, the
majority (85 percent) of State teachers and all municipal teachers will receive
96 hours of school-based training over a period of about two semesters (see
Annex Note B.2). The project will finance: (a) reproduction of seven hours of
video programs, (b) at least 89,000 packages of training materials, (c) teacher
stipends of about US$225 per teacher trained, and (d) about 30 person-months
of technical assistance. The school-based training will rely on audio-visual
material, curricular guides, and self-instructional texts to be prepared by the
outside institutions to be hired by the SEE/MG in accordance with detailed
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2.22      In light of the fact that single-session courses without follow-up
are rarely effective, the project will support the development of a permanent
capacity for in-service teacher training in Minas Gerais. This will be
accomplished through the annual provision of the equivalent of 40 hours of
training to about one fourth (20,000) of all first through fourth grade teachers.
The SEE/MG will develop terms of reference to identify qualifed institutions
to undertake the development of these follow-up courses and workshops to
seave both state and municipal school teachers who have completed the basic



-23-
taining. To suppWy some of these short courses, the SEEIMG will foster the
creation of six teacher reference centers (CREs) in the interior of Minas
Gerais. These centers will also provide an opportunity for teachers to
exchange experiences and be updated on new ways of making effective use of
the instructional materials to be supplied under this project. The project will
finance modest training equipment, approximately 13 person/months of
technical assistance, and the training courses themselves.
2.23      (c) Evaluating Educational Interventions (US$2.9 million). The
proposed project will finance research to assess the relative effectiveness of
teacher training programs and other classroom interventions, as well as to
correlate these interventions with student learning, as measured by the AVA-
MG andlor other evaluation instruments. Because most studies are expected to
use experimental or quasi-experimental methodologies, they will be carried out
over several years. At least four major studies will be financed: (a) an
evaluation of the basic training strategy; (b) a search for alternative strategies
for continuous teacher training; (c) an experiment on the differential effects on
student learning of alternative methods of student progression; and (d) a
comparison between the learning levels of students who are promoted and
those of students who are rained at the end of the CBA. All studies will be
contrcted out to either institutions (preferably) or to individual consultants.
Preliminary terms of reference for these studies have been prepared. Final
versions will be developed by SEE/MG, with assistance from consultants.
Dispatch to the Bank of satisfactory final terms of reference for the first study
are expected by June 30, 1994, with contracting expected by December 31,
1994.
4. Component D: Providing Instructional Materials (US$121.6 million)
2.24      Bank-supported projects in Brazil kave placed a premium on
incrasing the quality and quantity of instructional materials available in
classrooms, coupled with teacher training on how to use these inputs
effectively. The rationale for providing these educational inputs has been
ectensively documented in the literature, and it concerns not only the isolated
merits of individual items-such as books and teaching kits-but also of a
more adequate balance between human and technical inputs into the
pedagogical process. The project will finance yearly provision of textbooks,
other reading books, and teaching kits, plus one-time investments for setting
up libraries and reading corners. Textbooks will be directed towards all state
and municipal schools, while the other materials will be supplied to state
schools only. This component will have three subcomponents: (a) delivery of
textbooks, (b) establishment of reading corners and school libraries, and
(c) supply of teaching-learning kits of materials.
2.25      (a) Delivering Textbooks (US$53.7 million). With project
support, the State of Minas Gerais is committed to having a sustainable
program for textbook provision to its state and municipal schools. The State is
also committed to worldng with the federal Ministry of Education (MEC) to
implement the project's textbook subcomponent within the framework set out
by the recent resolution (Resolu!ao No. 6 of July 13, 1993) that reaffirmed the
federal govemment obligation for financing, procurement, and distribution of
textbooks. According to the resolution, this obligation will be carried out by
the Foundation for Student Assistance (FAE) with earmarked resources
orifnata from the saUdo-eduo  fund. Notwithstanding this federal-stat



-24-
partership, the State of Minas Gerais has assumed the final responsibility for
ensuring that every public elementary school student in Minas Gerais has a set
of textbooks in hand at the beginning of each school year, regardless of the
nature of support from the federal government (see para. 4.2(c)). To this end,
SEE/MG has included in the overall project implementation plan (PIP), the
outline of a backup stategy for textbook financing and procurement, should
the Resolution be revoked or should MEC fail to deliver on its obligation.
The backup strategy also spells out mechanisms for annual monitoring of the
perifrmance of FAE in textbook provision. Under the backup strategy, the
state will absorb the costs of setting up and maintaining a local book provision
system. This would be accomplished by having the state earmark the
appropriate amount of funds from its annual share of the national payroll tax
for education, which is now spent on school construction. That is, should
FAE fail, the state would undertake the responsibility for financing textbook
provision by earmarking approximately one third of its annual share of US$34
mi}lion from the QESE fund (the state share of the payroll tax for education),
thus guaranteeing an allocation of approximately US$4 per public elementary
school student per year for spending on a set of textbooks for the basic
subjects.
2.26       Also in the PIP is an operational schedule for implementing the
project's textbook provision component within the parameters of the current
federal-state partnership. This schedule, which was submitted to the Bank as a
condition of negotiations (see para. 4. 1(c)), was endorsed by FAE in a letter
of understanding between parties. In addition to including a timetable for
selection, procurement, and distribution of textbooks needed for school year
1995, as well as the expected date at which when earmarked FNDE resources
ought to be available to FAE, this schedule briefly describes the terms of the
Resolution and the extent of responsibilities of all involved parties (that is,
FNDE, FAE, and SEE/MG). The project will finance technical assistance to
help SEE/MG build its capacity for carrying out its share of the tasks.
2.27      Within the parameters of the proposed federal-state partnership for
textbook provision, the project will finance the purchase and distribution of
txtbooks for Portuguese, mathematics, social studies and natural sciences, as
follows: (a) about 13 million books for grades 1-2; (b) 9.5 million for grades
3-4; and (c) 9.8 million for grades 5-8. Expected book life is one year in
grades 1 and 2, two years in grades 3 and 4, and 3 years for the latter
elementary grades. Selection will be made by teachers at schools on the basis
of their preference, but will take into account the need to standardize book
usage across classrooms of the same school. Hence, only one title per subject
per grade can be selected per school. In addition to the textbooks themselves,
the project will also finance shelves to store and safeguard the books and
instructional materials to be acquired under the project, plus periodic book
fairs and book utilization workshops for teachers. Under the project, the
SEE/MG will guarantee regular provision of a basic set of textbooks to all
three million pupils attending elementary grades in public schools in Minas
Gerais.
2.28      (b) Setting Up Reading Corners and School Libraries (US$37.2
million). The proposed project will equip each of the 28,000 classrooms for
grades 1-4 in the state system with a "reading corner" accommodating about
35 reading books representing about 35 titles, including fiction and nonfiction
themes, so that it will be possible for each pupil to read a different book each



-25-
week of the school year. It will also equip each of the 4,000 schools offering
grades S through 8 with small libraries. At present, libraries in these schools
either do not exist or are in a precarious condition. After the initial
investment needed to set up reading corners and libraries, which will be
centrally procured, state schools will receive an average of US$1.40 per
student per year to upgrade and/or replace their book collections. These
resources will be transferred by SEE/MG directly to schools, which will then
manage them following the procurement rules and accounting controls recently
enacted by SEE/MG. As a means of reducing recurrent costs, production
specifications for the reading books will be upgraded to last at least four years,
given typical usage parameters. To assure minimum standards across schools,
technical specification criteria for book selection by grade will be drafted by
an internal SEEIMG committee with teacher representation. Relevance of
content vis-a-vis the curriculum, expected durability, and presentation
standards will be taken into account in book selection. Book collections will
be accompanied by an explanatory booklet providing information to teachers
on storage, maintenance, inventory control, and strategies for classroom use
by students. The project will also finance furniture for storage and book
conservation kits, as needed.
2.29      (c) Supplying Teaching Kits (US$30.7 million). As a means of
enriching the school-based learning process, limited sets of teaching kits and
other classroom supplies will be provided to all elementary schools in the state
system. Three types of kits will be financed by the project: one for CBA
classrooms, one for grades 34, and one for common use within each
elementary school. They will include mathematical games, alphabet blocks,
didactic puzzles, charts, dictionaries, atlases and maps, and related supplies.
Lists of recommended items per grade level lit have been defined by SEEIMG
on the basis of the curriculum and taling into account the limited resources
available in the state budget for instructional materials. Schools will use these
lists to decide on the actual content of thteir own kits. Technical specifications
wil be prepared by SEE/MG in agreement with available standards concerning
production materis and packaging. In the first year, each school will receive
the resources necessary to purchase each of the three ldts, as applicable,
according to its size and grades taught. For subsequent years schools will
receive an allocation equivalent to 15 percent of the initial purchase price for
replacement. The project will also finance a pilot program of provision of
science kits for use by students in grades 5-8, plus an in-depth evaluation of
the effectiveness of this pilot program. Most kits will be stored directly in
classrooms. Others will be placed in teachers' lounges for coordinated use by
all teachers at different times. With the exception of science kits, which will
be bought in bulk by the central office, teaching kits will be procured directly
by schools, with resources to be allocated by the SEE/MG on a per capita
basis-an average of US$2 per year per student. The resources will be
tansferred directly to schools in accordance with an agreed schedule and the
existing state norms regulating transfers, which include budget approval by the
school councils and filing of relevant statements of expenditures.
S. Component E: Upgrading Facility Management (US$49.9 million)
2.30      (a) Adding Classrooms (US$49.4 million). The SEE/MG has
defined an investment program for school construction that will allow all state
nrimarv schools to operate on the basis of two daytime shifts of four and a half



-26-
hours each. At present, preliminy estimates indicate at there are about 400
(that is, approximately 6 percent of the total) overcrowded state schools
srving almost 100,000 students in three daytime shifts of about three hours
each. The majority of these schools are in low-income urban areas
experiencing rapid population growth as a result of migration. The project
will finance the building and furnishing of additional classrooms and other
acilities to accommodate these children. However, the available estimates are
derived from school directors' reports of local deficits and overcrowding,
rather than from surveys of school facilities. Hence, before embarldng on
school construction, SEEIMG will finance the execution, by consulting firms,
of surveys of school facilities within the neighborhood of the proposed school,
in conformity with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The purpose of
such surveys will be to substantiate actual excess demand for classroom space
in the targeted neighborhood. With the results of the survey at hand, SEEIMG
will then determine whether the excess demand could be absorbed by existing
state schools (through re-deployment) and/or by municipal school systems. If
not, as it is assumed, school construction will take place. The survey will be
carried out in conformity with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. As a
condtion of loan disbursement for civil works, the state will provide evidence
that such surveys of school facilites has been satisfactorily completed (see
para. 4.5). On the basis of deficit data already available, it is estimated that
the project will finance the construction of about 1,500 new classrooms,
whether by expanding existing facilities or by building new ones. The State
Department of Public Works (DEOP), in close coordination with SEE/MG,
will plan, contract and supervise the work. The project will also finance
school construction and furnishing. Poorer districts will be served first. The
surveys will be repeated every time new construction is proposed in a selected
neighborhood alredy served by (state or municipal) existing schools.
2.31      (b) Rationaling Facility Utilization (US$0.5 million). The
objective of this subcomponent is to build SEE's capacity in facility
m.anagement, so that it can rationalize facility utilization in the entire public
school system. As part of this, SEE/MG will seek improved coordination with
municipal systems, consistent with its policy of limiting expansion of the state
school system to disadvantaged municipalities, and encouraging municipalities
with better per pupil spending capacity than the state (defined as US$250 per
pupil per year) to meet any new demand for school places. With project
support, SEE/MG w.i-. acquire software and hardware tools, coupled with
technical assistance and taining, for regular school mapping, accurate
projections of future demand for school places, and definition of standards for
better utilization of existing fcilities. The project will also finance production
of a school facility maintenance module to be inserted in the school
management manual currently being developed by SEE/MG. Finally, to avoid
the repetition of the problem of state schools operating three daytime shifts,
the State has enacted a policy directive removing from school directors and
placing in SEE/MG the authority to set appropriate standards of facility
utilization, including school day length (see para. 4.2(d)). This policy also
states that eventual deviations from the standard school day of four and a half
hours require SEE/MG auproval, which ought to be based on empirical
infbrmation collected via the aforementioned surveys of school facilities.
9w



-27-
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.32      This project was identified during the field-based project
identification exercise (PIE) carried out by LAIHR as part of its strategy in
FY92 for building a lending pipeline for education in Brazil. Because the PIE
was undertaken in close collaboration with local counterparts, the project has
enjoyed strong government commitment from the start. As a result,
preparation moved ahead quickly and smoothly, allowing for appraisal to occur
one year after the first Bank mission to SEE/MG.
2.33      There are several reasons for Bank financing in support of the
basic education program of Minas Gerais, for which this project represents a
significant part. The project is consis e:.. with Bank strategy for human
resource development in Brazil, which emphasizes investments in primary
education. It is also responsive to critical sectoral issues and lessons learned
through past Bank education lending to Brazil and elsewhere, which call for
investment loans with an appropriate balance of policy changes, hardware and
software investments, institutional development, and technical assistance.
More importantly, Minas Gerais has already demonstrated its willingness and
capacity to pursue meaningful sectoral improvements, as well as to pioneer
controversial but necessary changes in educational policy and practices, some
of which are innovations that may be replicable elsewhere. The SEE/MG has
already demonstrated that it has the institutional capacity to undertake the task
of implementng a project that comr.bines traditional and innovative activities.
To implement the policies and practices, however, Minas Gerais needs
resources and advice in their deployment. The Bank is well positioned to
render such advice, given its experience with similar operations in other
countries. Of course, the Bank is also well positioned to contribute with
resources (which, are not available from commercial banks). Some of the
project ativities have already been initiated with SEE/MG's own resources,
and these ongoing initiatives are showing positive results. Without Bank
support, however, the state will have to scale back its education program
significantly, thereby threatening its impact. Bank support will provide the
means for a state that has already adopted an appropriate policy framework for
improving the quality of public basic education in Brazil. Bank support will
also give the Bank the opportunity to contribute substantively to the
consolidation of interventions that are relatively new in Brazil, but which the
Bank has had experience in supporting elsewhere. Moreover, in Minas
Gerais, as in the other Brazilian states, children from the upper and middle
classes generally attend private schools from preschool through secondary
school, while poor and lower middle-class children attend public schools.
Hence, by focusing on public primary schools, the proposed project will
improve equity, as it will be directed toward less advantaged groups within the
state.
E. Projec Benefits and Risks
2.34      Through an additional expenditure of US$20 per beneficiary pupil
annually, the project will directly improve the quality of schooling for
approximately 3 million primary school children per year in public schools in
Minas Gerais. The project will contribute to overall development of the civil
service in the state by providing training and upgrading opportunities to
teachers, who account for almost half of tle civil service in Minas Gerais.
Tmnroved student flows will also increase the efflciencY of public soending on



-28-
primary education. The project will test potentially replicable methodologies
by supporting the establishment of systematic educational monitoring,
including student assessment-a pioneering concept in Brazil. The project will
also help establish an improved empirical basis for decision-maldng by
policymakes and practitioners by financing studies aimed at assessing the
reative cost-effectiveness and impact of various educational interventions.
2.35      At present, implementation risks are relatively low because of
reasonably strong government commitment and leadership, matched by staff
ownership in the project design and openness to external technical assistance.
Nonetheless, there are four main risks associated with this project. The first
risk is the possibility of diminished political commitment folowing the change
in the state government cabinet that will take place in early 1995. A decline in
political commitment could lead to the ilure of government to provide
adequate counterpart funds in a timely manner. This risk will be mitigated by
having representatives from selected stakeholder groups and constituencies
participate in the High-Level Advisory Committee (CA) to be maintained
under the project. The CA will serve as an agent for resolving eventual inter-
agency coordination problems and as a guardian of the project interests across
SEE/MG administrations.
2.36      The second risk is the possibility that the enabling policy
framework, supported by decrees and directives, will backslide with the
change in government cabinet in early 1995. This risk will be mitigated by
seeking formal assurance from the government of its commitment to the policy
framework. This will be done through the Government's submission to the
Bank as a condition of Board presentation of a Policy Letter of Basic
Education Quality Improvement of the State of Minas Gerais Public School
System. The CA is also expected to play a strong role in protecting project
interests during government transitions. A third risk is the potential resistance
that school principals and teachers may pose to project objectives and means,
as they have not been involved in project design and preparation. This risk
wiU be mitigated through the execution of a sound Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) program at the beginning of project implementation.
The purpose of this IEC program is to foster greater awareness and acceptance
of ongoing policy and management initiatives by aU interested parties,
especially school principals, teachers, and parents.
2.37      Finally, there is the risk that the agreed federal-state partnership
for textbook financing and procurement might collapse with turnover of
leadership in MEC. This risk will be mitigated by making use of loan
conditionality that requires the State to assume responsibility for ensuring that
every public elementary school student in Minas Gerais has a basic set of
textbooks in hand at the beginning of each school year, regardless of the
natre of support from the federal government. To this end, SEE/MG has
included in the overall project implementation plan (PIP), an operational
schedule, endorsed by MEC, for imiplementing the project's textbook provision
component within the parameters of the current federal-state partnership. Also
in the PIP is a backup strategy for textbook financing and procurement, should
MEC fail to deliver textbooks of acceptable quality on time and in sufficient
quantities. The project midtern review will also provide an opportunity to
reassess implementation risks and make adjustmernts, if necessary.



-29-
2.38       Project Sustalabuity. To sustain project investments after the
project ends, the State govemment is expected to keep in the SEE/MG budget
the same US$20 milhon of incremental resources that represent the State's
annual counterpart funding contribution during project execution (see para
3.5). This figure excludes funds for textbook provision (about US$10 million
per year), which the Resolwo No. 6 of July 1993 reaffirmed as a federal
government obligation. This US$20 million increase represents approximately
2.8 percent of the current state annual education budget of about US$700
million (excluding transfers). This increase should be fully within the
absorptive capacity of the state budget, assuming that the cunrent strong
political commitment holds. State government commitment to project
objectives, as set forth in the Policy Statement on Basic Education Quality
Improvement (to be submitted to the Bank as a condition of Board
presentation) is considered to be a primary factor corntributing to sustainability.
2.39       Environmental Impact. The project is not expected to have any
significant environmental impact as a consequence of the urban school
construction planned under the Upgrading Facility Management component.
M. PROJECr Com AND LEMENTATION
A. Project Costs
3.1       Summary of Project Costs. Project costs are estimated at
US$302.0 million, including taxes and duties. Tables 3.1(a) and 3.1(b)
summarizes the estimated costs by project component and category of
exeuitre.
Table 3.1(a): Summary of Project Costs by Component
US$ minlion
-         ~ ~~~~-          % bas
Project coMponents      Local  Foreign   Tota  foreign   cotw
Improving System-Wide Management    15.6  3.1   18.7       17       7
Stregthening School Administration  25.5  16.9   42.4     40       16
Developing Teaching Competence  48.2      3.7   51.9       7       19
Providing Instructional Materials  88.4  16.7  105.1      16       40
Upgrading Facility Management   38.8      5.3   44.1       12      17
Project Management               3.3      0.7    4.0       18       1
Total Base Costs               219.8     46.4  266.2       17     100
Physical confingencies         10.6     3.5   14.1       25       S
Price contingencies           18.3      3.4   21.7       16       8
Total Project Cost             248.7     53.3  302.0       18     113
3.2       The foreign exchange component, estimated at US$53.3 million
includinn contingencies. represents about 18 percent of total project costs. It



-30-
has been calculated on the basis of the following assumptions of aggregate
foreign exchange content: 80 percent for equipment; 50 percent for vehicles;
25 percent for other educational materials; 10 percent for furniture, textbooks,
civil works, and technical assistance (excluding training); 3 percent for
tran ; and zero percent for operations. These percentages were derived
from Bank experience with similar projects in Brzil, as well as from analyses
of specialists.
Table 3.1(b): Summary of Project Costs by Category of
Expenditure
(US$ mlon)
-            -     ~~~~~~% base
Local   Foreign   Total    cost
A. Civil works               37.9       4.2   42.1        16
B. Goods
|    Equipment             4.1      16.6   20.7          8
Furniture                  6.5       0.7    7.2          3
Vehicles                   0.4       0.4    0.8
Textbooks                 39.6       4.4   44.0         17
Other educational mateials    48.8  16.3   65.1         24
C. Technica '.Esistance
Policy support             2.5       0.3     2.8         1
Institutional development  4.3       0.5    4.8          2
Imxplementation support   10.8       1.2    12.0         5
D. Tnining                   59.7       1.8   61.5        23
E. Operations
Incremental sdaries        0.5         -     0.5
Maintenance                3.6         -     3.6         1
Supervision                1.1         -     1.1
Total Base Costs              219.8      46.4  266.2       100
Physical contingencies       10.6       3.5    14.1        5
Price contingences           18.3       3.4   21.7         8
Total Project Costs           248.7     53.3   302.0       113
3.3        Base Costs. Baseline costs are expressed in August 1993 (dollar
equivalents) prices and amount to USs266.2 million. Estimated costs of civil
works and school furniture were based upon recent implementation
experience in the state. Estimated costs of materials and supplies, including
books, were based upon recent price quotations from major suppliers, past
aWe ience of FAE and SEE/MG, and the views of specialists. Costs for
office technology equipment were based on current c.i.f. unit prices, adjusted
for local transportation costs. Local training cost estimates were based on a
deailed breakdown of the staffling, travel, subsistence and materials
requirements for each type of course and pay scales of the SEE/MG for



-31-
training specialists. Costs of international and domestic consultants were
based on currently prevailing rates.
3.4       Contingencies. Total physical contingencies of US$14.1 million
represent 5 percent of base costs. This figure was based on the following
contingency assumptions: 10 percent for educational materials (excluding
textbooks); 5 percent for civil works, vehicles, furnite, textbooks, technical
assistance (excluding training), maintenance, and superiision; 8 percent for
equipment; and zero percent for taining and operations. Price contingencies
amounting to US$21.6 million, or 8 percent of base costs, were estimated on
the basis of the expected international annual price increases as follows: 3.2
percent for 1994, and 3.6 percent for subsequent years. This rate of price
increase was used for both foreign and local cost components of the project
on the assumption that the depreciation of the local currency will compensate
for differences between U.S. dollar and local currency inflation rates.
3.5       Recurrent Costs. By the time of the closing date, it is expected
that the nonsalary recurrent costs of SEE/MG will be about 25 percent above
the current level. This increase will be necessary to maintain an adequate
level of nonsalary expenditures on basic education. The increase is estimated
at about US$20 million per year for supervision (3 percent); maintenance and
limited replacement of buildings, vehicles and equipment (10 percent); and
continued operation of new programs, such as continued teacher training (25
percent), student assessment (10 percent), education monitoring (10 percent),
and provision of instructional materials (42 percent). During the life of the
project, the Bank and the State government will share these costs. No
declining basis is being proposed, in light of the fact that, when the project
ends, the estimated aggregate incremental recurrent costs to be assumed by
the govemment are equivalent to the aggregate government contnbution
during project execution (see pam 2.38).
B. Fianig Pia
3.6       The total project cost of US$302 million equivalent will be.
financed by the government of the State of Minas Gerais and the Bank. The
proposed loan of US$150 million will be made to Minas Gerais to finance
approximately 50 perment of total project costs, or 100 percent of the foreign
exchange expenditures and about 42 percent of local currency expenditures
(see Table 3.2). The loan will be for 15 years, including a five year grace
period, in accordance with the amortization schedule selected by the
Borrower at negotiations. Financing shares will vary across project
components, with the Bank's support to be directed mostly to investments in
educational software. The financing plan and loan allocations by category of
expenditure are presented in Annex Table SC.
3.7       Retroactive financing of up to US$10 million will be provided
for expenditures made in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines for a
period of up to 12 months prior to the date of loan signing, but not before
July 1, 1993. Retroactive financing is recommended to ensure that (a) the
technical assistance required for fte tmely delivery of educational materals
begins with the necessary lead time; (b) to cover the costs of developing
teaching guides and materials required for executing teache training in the
first year of project excution; and (c) to allow the state to initiate agreed-



-32-
upon priority school construction works (subject to completion of the
required surveys of classroom school facilities).
Table 3.2: Financing Plan (US$ millon)
Financier                    Local      Foreign       Total
State of Minas Gerais           145.7        6.3         152.0
IBRD                            103.0       47.0         150.0
Total                           248.7       53.3         302.0
C. Project Iplementation
3.8       Executing Agency. Responsibility for project execution will be
vested in the SEE/MG, which will delegate the actual implementation of
project components to its existing organizational units. To this end,
SEE/MG will count on assistance from the State Department of Public Works
(DEOP) for school construction. Also, SEE/MG is making arrangements to
with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for the
contracting of technical assistance and selected procurement of equipment.
To ensure that project components are executed according to the agreed-upon
terms and timetable, and that all executing units receive the resources to
Carry out their tasks in a timely and efficient fashion, the SEE/MG will
maintain a Project Coordination Unit (UCP) (see para. 4.2(g)). To safeguard
continued political commitment across state administrations to the project
objectives and strategy, as well as to verify that SEEtMG will develop its
capacity to monitor educational outcomes, such as student assessment,
SEE/MG will maintain the high level advisory committee (CA) appointed by
Decree 35,423 of March 3, 1994 (see para. 4.2(f)). Draft terms of reference
for the operaion of both the UCP and the CA have been approved by the
Bank. As a condition of loan efctiveness, the SEE/MG will provide
evidence to the Bank that it has appointed a UCP team with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (see para. 4.4).
3.9       The Project Coordinating Unit. Since actual execution of
project activities will be delegated to units in the existing SEE/MG structure,
project management will assume a coordinating rather than executive role.
The UCP will be housed in the SEE/MG's Front Office and thus report
directly to the Secretary of Education. The UCP will be the channel of
communication between the project and the World Bank and will liaise, as
appropriate, with all participating institutions and agencies, including
municipal education authorities and federal agencies. The UCP will have
overall responsibility for project coordination through an operational network
of representatives selected from staff already at DREs and in individual
schools. Actual execution of project activities will be carried out by the
existing SEE/MG administrative units already responsible for these functions.
The UCP will be staffed by a full-time core team of five high-level
professionals with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, plus
administrative suppore staff (see Annex Note B3). In addition, the UCP will
utlize the services of short-term consultants who will be hired upon demand,
according to Bank guidelines, to assist in the areas of education manatement.



-33-
officers will be identified in each of the 42 DREs, while master teachers
already assigned to schools will serve as project representatives.
3.10      The UCP will receive the human, financial, and material
resources required for efficient and timely execution of its tasks. The project
will finance fumiture, equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, and
incremental operating costs. Resources will also be available for financing
information, education, and communication activities, such as media
campaigns, publication of newsletters,. and brochures, to foster support for
the new govemment initiatives among relevant constituencies, such as
legislators, teachers, and parents. Priority wil be given to activities aimed at
fostering an evaluation culture at all levels of the state school system (central,
regional, and local). As agreed with the Bank, SEE/MG will install and
operate in the UCP, throughout the life of the project, a computerized control
system, acceptable to the Bank, for tracking commitments, contraing,
procurement, and disbursement under the project (see para. 4.2(g).
3.11      The High-Level Advisory Committee (CA). This committee
was created to serve both as an agent for resolving eventual inter-agency
coordination problems and as a guardian of the project interests across
SEE/MG administrations. The CA will report directly to the Governor, and
serve as a forum for advocating government support for the project. The CA
was appointed by Governor's Decree 35423 of March 3, 1994, and will be
maintained throughout the life of the project. It will meet twice a year, in
April and October, and whenever the need arises, to examine progress im
project implementation, including the midterm review. The CA will review
and comment on the Annual Implementation and the Annual Progress Reports
before they are submitted to the Bank. The committee will also review the
Midterm Review Report and the Project Completion Report. The comments
and recommendations of the CA will be included in the reports to be sent to
the Bank (see para. 4.2(f). The CA will perform its functions through two
subcommittees, one external (CA-E) and another interna (CA-I). The
function of the internal subcommittee is to ensure that all necessary means
for successful project execution are available on a timely basis. The function
of the external subcommittee is to lobby for consistency and continuity in
project execution, as required to achieve project objectives. The composifion
of each of these subcommittees is in Annex Note B3.
3.12      Implementation Readiness. Project preparation benefitted from
workshops, sponsored jointly by the governmcnt and the Bank, on education
decentralization, procurement, and performance indicaters. After appraisal,
the SEE/MG consolidated all operational project information into a draft
project implementation plan (PIP), which was transmitted to the Bank as a
condition of negotiations (see para. 4.1(b)). The PIP is quite comprehensive,
including, inter alia, an outline of project content and structure, summaries of
the implementation strategy of each project subcomponent, a description of
agreed arrangements, schedules, model bidding documents, a timetable of
critical implementation actions, and selected draft terms of reference. The
table of contents of the PIP is in Annex C). The PIP is the product of a
competent management team, which is, in practice, already in place
(although formal appointment of the UCP is legally possible only after loan
signing).



-34-
3.13      The project is expected to be implemented over a six-year period
ending in June 1999. Selected project activities were initiated soon after
appraisal in June 1993; these will be eligible for retroactive financing.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that SEE/MG will carry out
project activities in accordance with the terms, afrangements, and schedule
agreed upon with the Rank, and specified in the PIP, which can only be
modified with Bank approval (see para. 4.2(a)). This includes adherence to
the Timetable of Critical Implementation Actions (CACI) to be undertaken
with regard to contracting of technical assistance supported under the Project
(see Annex Note B.5). The CACI includes the dates by which umbrella as
well as task-specific terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, will be
prepared, and contracts signed, for the execution of technical assistance to
(a) establish a system to monitor productivity and efficiency in the state
system of education; (b) strengthen the AVA-MG; and (c) implement teacher
training programs. At negotiations, the state provided evidence that it has
allocated sufficient counterpart funds in the state budget for carrying out
project activities in 1994 (approximately the first year of project execution).
The project is therefore ready for implementation.
3.14      Annual Planning. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that each year, starting in 1994, the SEEIMG (through the UCP)
will prepare a detailed operational plan (POA) for the following year, in
accordance with previously agreed procedures and format (see Annex Note
B.4). A draft of the plan will be sent to the Bank for review by July 15 of
each year (see para. 4.2j)). The Bank will send its comments, if any, before
August 15 so that its comments can be taken into consideration in the
finalization of the budget request to be submitted to the Planning Secretaiat
of the State. After the approval of the SEE/MG budget, the plan will be
adjusted as needed in consultation with the Bank, and the final version sent to
the Bank as an annex to the Annual Progress Report.
3.15      Reporting. As part of its duties, the UCP will prepare and send
to the Bank: (a) annual progress reports (RAA), due on May 15 of every
year, starting in 1995 (see pam. 4.2(k)); (b) annual audit reports, due within
six months of the end of each fiscal year (see pam. 4.2(m)); and (c) a
midterm progress report, due at least 30 days prior to the scheduled date for
the project midterm review (see pam. 4.20));. The UCP will also provide
any other reports as the Bank may reasonably request, including a project
completion report due within six months from the date of the last loan
disbursement. In preparing these reports, the UCP will draw on informadton
generated by the overall SEE/MG's management information system, of
which the project-supported educational monitoring system will be a part,
and, when appropriate, on the special studies financed by the project and its
own analyses. Guidelines for the scope and level of detail of these reports
are spelled out in Annex Note B.4.
3.16      Annual Reviews. Each year not later than June 15, starting in
1995, the SEE/MG and the Bank will conduct a comprehensive review of
progress in achieving the objectives of the project (see para. 4.2(k)). These
annual reviews will be both retrospective and prospective. They will be
based on the previous year's RAA, the subsequent year's POA, and the
project performance matrix of primary, secondary, and terdary indicators and
targets. This joint SEE-Bank review will be preceded by a CA meeting to
evaluate the RAA from the previous year. Regular supemrision missions will



-35-
be necessary during the interval between annual reviews, preferably in early
February (focusing on verification of counterpart funding in the approved
year budget and on preparation of the previous year's RAA) and October
(focusing on procurement and project performance monitoring).
3.17      Mid-Term Review.  In addition to the annual reviews, no later
than 36 months after project effectiveness, or approximately in early 1997,
SEE/MG and the Bank will complete a midterm review of project execution
(see para. 4.2(1)). This review will focus especially on progress towards
achieving project targets and intermediate outcomes.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.18      Progress towards the achievement of the project's main goal will
be monitored through yearly measurement of increases in the number of
students who reach grade 5 with no more than one repetition. This measure
is taken as a proxy for increased student learning and improved student flow
across each of the lower primary grades. This will be the primary project
performance Indicator. Given that passage from lower primary to higher
primary grades is highly correlated with the likelihood of completion of
eighth grade, improvements in this measure are also taken as a trigger of
improvements in the overall rate of completion of elementary school. The
target is to increase by about 50 percent, from the baseline level of 32
percent to about 50 percent, the number of students reaching grade 5 with no
more than one repetition. This target level assumes that: (a) student learning
will increase consistently and gradually over the project period; (b) student
promotion between grades 1 and 2 will approach 95 percent by the time of
the project's midterm review; and (c) the repetition rates in the lower grades
will decrease by about 5-10 percent in each of the lower primary grades.
These three measures will constitute the secondary project performance
Indicators and targets, and they will also be tracked regularly under the
project. Progress toward implementation will be monitored through time-
bound input, throughput, and output terthry project performance
Indicators to be established at state and school levels as part of the
Reforming Education Monitoring subcomponent of the project (see para.
2.6). The project will provide the means for defining the methodology
(including definitions, data sources, baseline figures, timetable, and time-
bound targets) for derving all indicators and targets. The key teriary
indicators and their linked target values will be based on the agreed project
objectives and the project implementation plans. All targets were established
for monitoring purposes only; no attempt will be made to link them to
disbursement. A final project monitoring matrix satisfactory to the Bank and
based on a draft submitted to the Bank as part of the PIP, will be adopted by
SEE/MG no later than June 15, 1994 (see para. 4.2(b)). The primary and
secondary indicators and their target values were agreed at negotiations.
E. Procurement
3.19      Procurement Responsibility. Within SEE/MG is a unit
responsible for bidding, contracting, and procurement of goods and services.
Although the capacity of this unit to handle the procurement of goods is
already satisfictory, it will be strengthened with project-financed technical
assistance and computerized control systems for management of procurement
activities under Bank guidelines. Procurement of major school construction



-36-
will be carried out by DEOP, in coordination with the SEE/MG. DEOP is
responsible for design, bidding, contracting, and supervision of all public
civil works carried out by the state government. DEOP has trained teams of
architects and engineers to assist the state in the supervision of civil works.
The capacity of DEOP to handle the contracting of works and goods to be
procured under the project is considered to be adequate. To oversee all
decisions related to Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) and International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement of goods and works, plus contracting
of consultant services in connection with school construction, SEE/MG will
appoint and maintain a procurement committee consisting of at least three
permanent members (one of whom will be the procurement assistant who is
part of the UCP team). Under the project, all state transfers to municipal
schools will be in kind (e.g., books, training, and student testing), whereas
both in-kind and financial transfers will be channeled by SEEIMG to state
schools. Moreover, given the difficulties usually encountered by public
offices in Brazil in the hiring of consultant services, the Government has
proposed to contract UNDP as a procurement agent.
3.20      Procurement Arrangements. The project will include
procurement of civil works, equipment and furniture, educational materials
and supplies, textbooks (which are not Bank-finan"d), reading books,
vehicles, a variety of services for transportation, consultancies, training,
studies, technical assistance, maintenance, and supervision. Most
procurement of goods and civil works will be carried out centrally using
international and local competitive methods, whereas small school
renovation, purchases of school supplies, contvacting of equipment
maintenance, and selected training may be pricured directly by schools using
local and international shopping methods. 'r iese methods, which are
acceptable to the Bank, include price quot; tons from at least three eligible
bidders. Records will be kept for inspection by the regional state education
offices. If the Government so requests, local bidders participating in ICB for
goods will be given, for the purpose of bid evaluation, a preference margin
in accordance with World Bank guidelines. All procurement of contracts
financed by the Bank will be made in accordance with Bank guidelines. All
ICB for procurement of goods will make use of the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents (see para. 4.2(h)). All LCB of goods and works will make use of
model bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by SEE/MG
(see para. 4.2(h)). All LCB will permit foreign bidding. All terms of
reference for procurement of consulting services will be prepared in
accordance with a generic outline included in the PIP. All terms of reference
would be satisfactory to the Bank (see pam. 4.2(i)). Arrangements are
underway to have UNDP contracted by June 30, 1994 to assist SEE/MG in
hiring consultant services and carrying out selected procurement of
equipment.
3.21      Specific arrangements for procurement of goods and services to
be financed with the proceeds of the proposed loan are described below.
They are also summarized in Table 3.3.
(a)  Civil Works total about US$47.9 equivalent, or 18 percent
of project costs. As school construction and expansion will
occur in urban areas of high population density, where
school buildings range in size from five to 15 rooms, most
packages for new construction will average about



-37-
US$350,000 equivalent (for a school of 12 classrooms),
while most packages for school expansion wiU range
between US$80,000 and US$200,000 (for adding three to
eight classrooms to existing schools); packages for library
constructior. are expected to average about US$15,000. No
civil works contracts are expected to exceed US$1 million.
Contracts in excess of US$100,000 but below US$1 million
will be awarded following LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Contracts of US$100,000 or less will be
awarded following Local Shopping procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
(b)  Equipment, Furniture, and Vehicles total US$32.8
million, or approximately 12 percent of total project costs.
Bid packages of US$300,000 or more will be procured on
the basis of ICB procedures. It is estimated that 65 percent
of contracts will fall in this category. Smaller packages
will be procured through LCB, for contracts between
US$50,000 and US$300,000, up to an aggregate limit of
US$5 million, as well as Local Shopping, for contracts
under US$50,000, up to an aggregate limit of US$6.4
million.
(c) Educational Materials and Supplies (other than
textbooks) total US$76.5 million, or approximately 29
percent of total costs. The initial procurement of books
(other than textbooks) for classroom reading corners will
be procured under ICB. Other educational materals and
supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or
more per bid package will be procured under ICB.
Smaller packages of educational materials and supplies
(including science kits), estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than US$300,000 but more than the equivalent of
US$50,000, up to an aggregate limit of US$7.7 million
may be procured on the basis of LCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Replacement or replenishment of
books for the classroom reading corners after the initial
purchase, and the purchase of classroom teaching kits
(except for science kits), estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$50,000 per contmt up to an aggregagate
amount equivalent to US$54.6 million, may be procured in
a decentralized manner by the schools in the state system,
if the results of school-based pilot purchases of these
materials indicate that no siginficant savings would be
achieved through bulk procurement.
(d) Textbooks total US$50.2 million, or approximately 19
percent of total costs. All procurement of texbooks will
be financed with counterpart funding and procured through
local procedures already in place.
(e) Technical Assistance (including teacher training), totals
about US$88.6 million, or 33 percent of total costs. This
uti:1 hti enntrn,tA in snrtfwrneP- with the Anoust 19RI



-38-
Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bark
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency.
Consultant contracts for complex, time-based assignments
will make use of standard contracts issued by the Bank.
(t) Maintenance of equipment, vehicles and buildings,
totalling about US$4.2 mullion, or one percent of total
costs, will be financed with counterpart funding and
procured through local procedures already in place.
(g) Supervision expenses totalling about US$1.3 million (or
less than one-half of one percent of costs) for, inter alia,
staff travel, communications, and stipends. These expenses
will be financed with counterpart funding and charged
directly to SEE/MG accounts, in accordance with
SEE/MG's current standards and practices.
(h) Salary expenses, totalling US$500,000. These expenses,
which will be totally financed with counterpart funding,
will be charged directly to SEE/MG accounts, in
accordance with SEE/MG's current standards and
practices.
3.22      Bank Review Requirements. The Bank will review and
approve before contract award: (a) all ICB documentation and contracts;
(b) the first two LCB contracts for furniture, equipment, educational
materials, and civil works, regardless of size; (c) all terms of reference for
individual consultants and consultant firms; (d) all selections and contracts
with individual consultants valued at US$50,000 or more; and (e) all short
lists, letters of invitation, evaluations of proposals, and contracts for
assignments to firms valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more. In the
SEE/MG, regional offices, and in large schools, procurement records will be
reguarly compiled in computerized systems. In small schools, simple
standardized forms will be used for the same purpose. Approximately 25
percent of Bank-financed contracts for goods and works under the project
would be subject to prior review under the prior review thresholds described
above. The level of prior review coverage may increase significantly if it is
decided that replacement books for the classroom reading corners be
procured at the central rather than at the school level. Nevertheless, all
supporting procurement documentation will be subject to periodic and
selective ex-post review by the Bank and external auditors. In particular, the
Bank intends to periodically and selectively review procurement of
replacement books and other teaching supplies by the schools.



-39-
Table 3.3: Summary of Procurement Aan               ts
(US$ millIon equivalent)
Procurement mthdw
-c       -cb    -te    Consultinmg
Cazegoqf                 IC       Cb       mO~      evces    NBF4   Total
A. Civdl works           -        24.0    23.9         -       -      47.9
(6.0)   (6.0)                       (12.0)
B. Goods
Equipment              18.9      -      4.8                         23.7
(16.0)            (3.8)                      (19.8)
Fu3Titure              2.5      4.1      1.6        _       _        8.2
(1.1)   (1.9)   (0.8)                        (3.8)
Vehicles               _        0.9      _-                          0.9
(0.6)                                (0.6)
Textbooks              _ -           -         -            50.2    50.2
(0.0)   (0.0)
Other educ'l naterials   15.3   7.7    53.5         _       _       76.5
(11.0)   (5.6)   (38.7)                      (55.3)
C. Consultants' services  -        _       _          88.6    -       88.6
and training                                      (58.5)           (58.5)
D. Operations
Incremental salaries   _-                                    0.5     0.5
(0.0)   (0.0)
Maintenance            -         _       _          _        4.2     4.2
(0.0)   (0.0)
Supeson                            _ _ _   _                 1.3     1.3
.________  (0.0)   (0.0)
Total                    36.7    36.7    89.3         88.6   50.7   302.0
_(28.1)   (14.1)  (49.3)      (58.5)   (0.0)  150.0)
a. Internafimoal Compeitive Bidding.
b. Local Competitive Bidding.
c. Local and international shopping.
d. Not Bank-fiannced.
Nowt  Values in pnthse rprsent Bank financing.
F. Disbursements
3.23        The US$150.0 million loan will be disbursed against the
categories summarized in Table 3.4.
3.24        Disbursements will be made upon recept of full documentaion,
except in the case of civil works valued at less than US$500,000, goods
valued at less than US$300,000, consultant frm contracts valued at less than
US$100,000, and operational expenditures, for which disbursements may be
made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) certfied locally by the state
education secretary. Supporting documentation will be retained by the UCP
and will be available for inWection by the Bank and by independent auditors.



-40-
Table 3.4: Su_mmy of Allocation of the Loan Pnceeds
(USS mollion)
Category          Loa Amount         Disbursement
1.   Civil works               10.3      25 percent of total
expenditures
2.   Equipment, furniture       19.2     100 percent of foreign
and vehicles                       expenditures, 40 percent
of local exenditures
3.   Educational materals      38.2      100 percent of foreign
and supplies (other                expenditums, 65 percent
than textbooks)                    of local expenditures
4.   Consultants' Services     57.4      100 percent of foreign
and Training                       expenditures, 65 percent
of local expenditures
5.   School awards              3.1      40 percent of total
expenditures
6.   Unallocated               21.8
Total                    150.0
3.25      Spedal Account. To ensure the efficient and timely execution
of the project, the Borrower will open a Special Account in a commercial
bank accePtable to the Bank. The initial deposit by the Bank into this Special
Account wi be for an amount of US$10 million, which is equivalent to an
average of four months of disbursements. Funds form the Special Account
will be available for financing only the Bank's share of eligible project
ependitures. The Bank will replenish the Special Account as requested upon
receipt of satisfactoryevideetha expenditures paid were eligible for
fnancing out of the accounts. Replenishment requests will be sent to the
Bank at regular intervals, as determined by the Bank. Conversions from the
local currency (in 1993, Cneiro Real and other currencies to U.S. dollars
will be made in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.26      Schedule The proceeds of the loan will be disbursed over a
period of six years. The project completion date will be June 30, 1999, and
the loan closing date will be December 31, 1999. Table 3.5 summarizs the
disbursement schedule, which is based on the project implementation plan as
well as on Bank experience with similar opeions in Brazil.
Table 3.5: Esthmated Disburments (US$ milion)
Bank Fiscl year
Disburn_       FY94  FY9S  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY2000
Anual           10.0   14.0   25.0  35.0  40.0  22.0       4.0
Cumukladve      10.0   24.0   49.0   84.0  124.0 146.0    150.0



-41-
G. Accounting and Auditing
3.27      Ihe SEE/MG will maintn separate accounts for project
expenditures, including the Special Account at a commerial bank. All
project accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors with
quaififcations acceptable wo the Bank, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles and practices. Copies of the audited statements from the stae and
from the commercial bank handling the Specal Account will be sent to the
Bank withn six months of the end of each fiscal year. ae auditors' reports
will include an opinion (and comments, as necessary) on the quality and
accurac of the methods employed in compiling the statements of
expenditures, the relevance of supporting documents, their eligibility for
financing with loan proceeds, and the standards of record-keeping and
internal contrls related to the foregoing. Assurances wem obtained at
negoations that auditng argements in conforimty with these tm  wiu
be made by June 30, 1994 (see para. 4.2(m)).
IV. AGREMENTS REACHED Am RECOMMDAnoN
4.1       Prior to negotiations, the State Government, represented by
SEE/MG:
(a)  provided to the Bank a drft version of its Policy Statement
on %asic Education Quality Improvement, setting out the
Sate's intention to uphold the enabling policy framework
that supports the project components (para. 2.2);
b)  tranmitted for Bank review a revised project
implementation plan (PIP), including annexes, prepared
v ith the content and in the format agreed upon during
Apraisal (paras. 3.12-3.13); and
(c)  prepared as part of the PIP a draft opaional plan (now
renamed as schedule), for executing the project's tetbook
provision subcomponent within the parameters of the
current federal-state partnership for txbook provision
(para. 2.26).
4.2       At uegotiatons, assurances were obtained that the State will:
(a) carry out project activities with due diligence and in
conformity with terms, arrangements, and timetable
satisfatory to the Bank, as speciied in the prqject's
implementation plan (PIP), which can only be modified
with the consent of the Bank (para. 3.13);
(b)  by June 15, 1994, adopt a project monitoring matrix,
ssfactory to the Bank, including time-bound quantitve
indicators of project performance (pam 3.18);
(c) ensure that every public elementary school student in the
kinas Gerais has a set of textbooks in hand at the
beginninft of each school year, stating in 1995, regardless



-42-
of the naure of support from tie federal government (pir.
2.25);
(4) maintin a policy directive that charges the SEEIMG with
the authorit'Y to set appropriate standards of fcility
udtlizaon (including school day length), and approve
eventual deviations, if they arise, from these standards
(Par. 2.31);
(e)  by December 31, 1995, enter into collaborative
agreements, under conditions satsfactory to the Bank, with
as many municipalities as required to compose a sample of
at least 10 percent of the students in municipal elementary
schools for the putpose of extending student assessment
testing by 1996 to students attending schools under the
jurisdictions of the subject municipalities (pama 2.7);
(f)  mntain a high-level advisory committee (CA) with a
composition, and under terms of refeence satisfctory, to
theflank (aras. 3.8, 3.11 and 3.12)
(g)  maintain in the SEE/MG a jmject management unit (UCP)
operating in accordance wi tems of reference aisory
to the Bank, including the operation of a computerzed
control system, acceptable to the Bank, for tracking
comitments, contactng, procurement, and disbursement
under the project (pars. 3.8-3.10);
(h)  cary out all procurement of goods and civil works
fiaced by the Bank in acordance with Bank guideline
and project-specific aangts, including the use of ICB
and LCB standard and model bidding documents
satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.19-3.22);
(i)  carry out all cacting of services under the project on a
imely basis and in accordance with terms of reference,
cluding a tmetable of critical actions, s cty  to the
Bank (paras. 3.193.22);
(j)  no later tan July 15 of each year, sting in 1994, fumish
to the Bank, for its review and approval, a proposed annual
opeaona plan (POA) for activities to be executed in the
subsequent year, prepared in accordance with a pre-aWd
format and including a detailed schedule, physical targets,
and a budget (para. 3.14);
(k)  not late than June 15 of each year, statng in 1995, hold
annual project implemenion re       jointly h the
Bank, based on annual  ss reports of suc scope,
detail, and format as the Bank may rasonably request, to
be frnished to the Bank no laterthan 30 daysprior to the
annual review date, and focusing, inter aia, on: (i) st
of implemenion, as measured by moniring indicators
agreed wt the Bank; (u) desired level of ynoati



-43-
between essential educational hardware and software
supported by the project; (lii) justification of deviations, if
any, from the PIP; (iv) the State performance on
disbursement of countrpart funding; (v) comments and
recommendations of the high level advisory committee
(CA); and (vi) an acon plan for addressing problems, if
any, raised by the CA (paras. 3.15-3.16);
(1)  thirty-six months after the loan effectiveness date, hold
jointly with the Bank a midterm review of the project,
based on a mid-term progress reports of such scope, detail,
and format as the Bank may reasonably request, to be
furished to the Bank no later than 60 days prior to the
mid-term revimew date, and focusing, inter alia, on: (i)
progress towards the achievement of project objectives, as
measured by monitonng indicators agreed upon with the
Bank; (ii) the SEE/MG performance on project
implementation, including management and disbursement
of counterpart funding; and (iii) state-wide education sector
issues and their affect on the project execution (pam.
3.17); and
(m) no later than June 30 of each year, starting in 1995,
furnish to the Bank audit reports of the operation of all
project accounts in the previous year, prepared by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles and practices, and in
conformity with auditing anrangements to be in place by
June 30, 1994 (para. 3.27).
4.3       As a condition of Board presentadon, the State will provide to
the Bank a final version of its Policy Statement on Basic Education Quality
lUrprovement, based on the draft discussed at negotiations (para. 2.2).
4.4       As a conditdon of loan dectaeness, the State will appoint a
project management team with experience and qualfications acceptable to the
Bank (paa. 3.8).
4.5       As a condition of loan disbursenent for civil works, the state will
provide evidence that it has completed a survey of school facilities within the
vicinity of the proposed school, in conformity with terms of reference
accepable to the Bank, to substantiate actual excess demand for classroom
space in the targeted neighborhood (para. 2.30). As a condition of
disbunement for school awards, the state will submit to the Bank guidelines
for the operad-in of its support program for school innovation (pam. 2.13).
4.6       Re. n.bendation    j Suect to the above conditions, the proect is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$150 million equivalent, to be repaid at the
Banks standard variable interest rate over a period of 15 years, on a fixed
amortizaion schedule with a five-year grace period. Retroactive financing
equivalent to up to US$10 million for eligible expenditures incurred after
July 1, 1993, but not before loan signing, is also recommended (pam. 3.7).



Annex A: Annex Tables
Note: The tm ehneay edcadon refen to gad  1 thwouh 8. Basic
edcadon coves preschool, elementary, and seconday educatn.



Annex Table 1A Minas Corals Basic Educaton: Enrolbuent by Education Level and Subsystem, 1985 and 1990
Presdhool             Elementary            Seoondary'                ToWa
(wade 0)             Wgades 1-4)            grades 9-12)           (gades 0-12)
1985      1990        1985        1990       1985       1990        1985         1990
Public            No.        201,602    283,245   2,677,379   2,937,058    157,464   214,117     3,036,445   3,434,420
%            80%        79%         94%         93%        54%       66%           89%         89%
Fedea          No.              0        237       1,489       1,816      8,723     4,609        10,212       6,662
% oftow          0%         0%          0%          0%         3%         1%           0%          0%
% of public       0%         0%          0%          0%         6%        2%            0%          0%
Stue           No.        170,247    226,779   2,102,048   2,330,162    117,372   185,029     2,389,667   2,741,970
% oftota        67%        63%         74%         74%        40%        57%          70%         71%
% of public      84%        80%         79%         79%        75%       86%           79%         80%
Municipal      No.         31,355     56,229    S73,842      605,080     31,369    24,479       636,566    685,788
% of total       12%       16%         20%         19%        11%         8%           19%        18%
% of public      16%        20%         21%         21%        20%        11%          21%         20%
Privae            No.         51,931     74,036     181,829    219,968    135,631   111,477        369,391    405,481
%            20%        21%          6%          7%        46%       34%           11%         11%
Tota              No.        253,533    357,281    2,859,208  3,157,026    293,095   325,594      3,405,836   3,839,901
X           100%       100%        100%        100%       100%      100%          100%        100%
Souw CEDINSIEE-MGO
a. Most secoay edcatio pr_gm   are te yea an laegth, whe vocana prog_s requre four yas of shoolig (includig one year of



Annex Table IB: Minas Gerals Basic Education: Enrollment by Grade and Subsystem, 1991
Grade                            Federal           State     Municipal         Private           Total
CBA_                                607        865,643b       344,8130         55,903d       1,266,966
3                                   327         336,847        107,817         27,041         472,032
4                                   369         272,847         74,735         25,235          373,186
5                                   351         342,243         43,725         35,314         421,633
6                                   270         224,088         28,764         29,712         282,834
7                                   215         162,255         20,663         26,112         209,245
8                                   213         118,000         15,086         23,295          156,594
Subtotal 14                        2,352      2,321 923        635 603        222,612        3,182 490
% of level tDa                        *            3%            20%              7%            160%
% of subsystem tDtEl               29%            91%            96%             68%             90%              -J
9                                  2,501        104,194         13,440         37,366          157,501
10                                 1,698        62,532          8,755          3S,867         108,852
I 1                               1,314         37,484          5,698          30,267          74,763
12                                  186          11,675           431           3,502          15,794
Subtotal 9-12                     5,699         215,885         28,324        1070            35690
% of level total                    2%            60%             8%             341 369%
% of subsystemtotal                71%             9%             4%              2%             10%
Tofal                              8,051      2,537 808        663,927        329,614        3,539 400
% of level                         00%            42%             19%             9%            160%
% of subsystem total              100%            100%           100%           100%            100%
Sowcev CEDlNEISEE-MG
a. CBA stans for * do Bdsico de A4fabe*au4o, or the grooping of gades I and 2 ino a single block widhn which, in principle, tde
shoud be no studnt  tition of gade 1.
b. About 100 prent of the state sdhool ui llm t is in schools that use the CBA method of grouing pupils; abou 20 percent of those
stdes reeat the second yeo of CBA.
C. Only about #oepen of to micipal dnolmet is in schools that hawe adopted CBA; about 20 pervert of thou. students epeat the
second your of  A the ohr 99 penta sro divided as follows: 63 peent i grade I and 37 penat in grade 2.
d. Te prvwe sec las not adaped CBA; actud awonimt s about S05so.
e. L_ _O.SX.



Annex Table 2A: Minus Gerais Basic Education: SEE-MG Spndig by Category of Expen_tue, 1991 and 1992
1991^                                    19920
Cr$       % of      % of      US$        Cf$        % of      % of      USS
__________    million   nosalary    total    millo     mflion   nonalay    to         million
Payol                   252,662       n.a.     89%       631.8  2,601,500       n.a.     84%       576.6
Nonaluy
Scholarshi               1,281        4%         b        3.2      9,600        2%         b        2.1
Taining                  1,400        4%         b        3.5    15,800         3%     0.5%         3.5
Bquipmuit                2,002       6%        1%         5.0    26,000         5%       1%         5.8
Civi  ksoe               6,523       20%       2%        16.3    79,600        16%       3%        17.6
Supples                  7,753      24%        3%        19.4    71,600        14%       2%        15.9
Other services           9,453      29%        3%        23.6   192,100        38%       6%        42.6
Transfes to chodls       3,763       12%       1%         9.4   104,300        21%       3%        23.1
Subttal Noimulary     32,175      100%      11%        80.5   499,000       100%      16%       110.6
Ganud Totad             2t4,S37       n.a.    100%       712.3  3,100,5O        na.    100%        687.1
No. of               USS                 No of                 US$
s_tudets                                                        _
Enromn.t                         2,766,824                                 2,864,725
Per pupilependitum                                      257                    _                  245
Sourwe. CEIINEISEBE-MG
a. Exhange rates use for 1991, Cr$399.90-, for 1992, Cz$4,512.60.
b. Low s tlan0.5%.
c. lwlude  rnsfs to municiplities for civil wrs perfamed in tae schools.



-49-Sa.hi2
9 4     _      __        _         '1
g~~- I                    -      
;                                     I                               
e _ --n                       -            *X
3                                     8     
i ~ ~~~~ *j *~ 0* - 
a~~~~ U       l



Aimes Table 3A:   Enua Gerii Eaenaitary EAducadin: Deailed Stuidat flow
Year
Ghade          1      2     3      4     5      6      7     8     9      10    11    12    13   14   15  16  17 18   19   Tota
1        1000   467   218   102    48    22    10    5          2      1     0      0     0    0    0    0    0    0   0   1I'7m
2           0   505   401   241   130    67    33   16          8      4      2     1     0   0    0    0    0    0   0   1,408
3           0      0   327   338   237   141    77   40    20    10           5     2      1   0    0    0    0    0   0    1,198
4           0      0     0   227   272   209    132   75    40    20    10          5     2    1   0    0    0    0   0        993
S           0      0     0     0   132   208   200   15   101    61    35    19    10   5    2    1   0    0   0               926
6            0     0     0      0     0    69   131    2    126    93    61    38    22  12    6    3    1   0   0             706
7           0      0     0      0     0      0    41   14   107   100    78    54    35  21   12    6    3    1   0            546
8           0      0     0     0      0      0     0    6    68    88    87    71    51  34  21   12    6    3    1            471
88
29                                                                               O
EroDMn=       1,000   972   946   908   819   716   624   55   472   377   278   190   121  73  41   22   10    4    1   8,125
1
GOaduation       0     0      0     0      0     0      0  24    SS    72    72    59    42  29   18  12   6    3   0              392
Withdrwd        11    16    32    82    97    8S    68   S1    36    23    14            9     5   2    1   0    0    0   0        S32
pasjng
Wkbdraw/        16    10      7     7      5     6      4    4       4     4      2      I     1    1   0 0        0 0      0       72
notpg 
Wwbhdrawl       27    26    39    89   102    91    72   55    40    27    16    10            6    3    1   0    0    0   0       604
Sowmc: CEDDMSEE-MG ad PROLUXOD



Ann  Table 3B: Mnas Gerais E          Educatlo: S_ummry of Student Flow Statcs per Grade
AgeJa
Prolotion    Repetition    Dropouts 
Grade  Entering cla    Enrolment       %      __%                 *             %
1           1,000         1,875      54           43              3          48
2             947         1,408      62           34              4          62
3             913         1,198      67           26              7          61
4             832          993       67           16              17         74
5             579          926       54           32              13         75
6             487          708       69           22              9          75
7             424          546       71           22               8         73
8             390          471       68           12             20          64
Total                      8,125      62            30              -
so&w  C;DINEIMGISBEMO ad PROFLUXO
a. Propodki of sudbents am epeced ag for gra1



Annex Table 4A: Brai and Mins Gea  Elmentary Education: Seled Student Testig Resuls, 199
SABB - Mean tes sores of fifth gaders in Potguese, mathematics, and science
Subsystem
State                     Municipal                      Totad
Portu-   Mathe-  Sciences   Portu-    Mathe-  Sciences  Portu-  Mathe-  Sciences
guese    matics             guese    matics              guese   matics
Minas      55.3     32.5      41.8      63.1     42.9      46.3    55.5    32.9       41.9
Gerai
Brazil     51.9     31.6      41.7      51.8     31.5      41.6     51.9    31.6      41.7
SABB - Mean test scores in mathematics by grade, subsystem, and urbarmurl locatior
______ _____ ______ _____subsystem_                _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
State                     Municipal                      Total
Gmde   Urban    Rural    Total    Urban    Ruml    Total    Urban   Rural    Total
1      51.3     40.1      45.7      53.7      44.3     46.9      51.5    42.2      48.7
3      53.0      45.6     51.6      53.1      43.6      46.5     53.0    44.6      50.7
5      33.0     29.2      32.5      42.9      0.0       42.9     33.3    29.2      32.9
7      35.4      25.6     34.3      60.0      0.0       60.0    35.8    25.6       34.7
Soue MECCSAB, 1992
8. Mimm scorn is 100.



-53-                     Aex Tabl
Anex Table 4B: Minas Gerais Basic Education:
Munidpal Systems' per Pupil Availabiity of FPnanedal R'oour, 1Q92
US$ per pupil     No. of municipalities       % Of total
> -250?
76-100                               4                    1
101-125                             10                    1
126-150                             10                    1
151-175                             14                   2
176-200                             18                   3
201-225                            23                     3
226-250                             19                    3
Subtotal (a)                      98                   14
251-5K'                             177                   25
501                                  146                   20
751                                  100                   14
1,001-1,250                           47                    7
1,251                                 32                    4
1,501-1,750                           31                    4
1,751-2,000                           14                    2
2,001-2,250                           14                    2
2,251-2,500                            9                    1
2,501                                 41                    6
Subtotal (b)                       611                   84
No enrollment (c)                     14                    2
Total (b) + (c)                     625                   86
GRWD TOrAL                         723                  100
(a)+ (b)+ (c)
Sourcc MEC/SABB, 1992
a. Municipalities with fiwer resources ta the state govemmut.
b. Interval withim which te state govement nual averg per Pupil expeaditue of
US$250 fills.
c. Municipalities with no basic education eIrolmenL



Amex Table SA: Poject Cost Summary by S9          Ot
(USS '000)                          (USS '000)                          % Total
-P   BDs
Local   E    on         Total       Local       FoEp         Total     Excag       Coo
A. hupriving Sydtm-Wid Manageinet (US$21.S
miion)                                           1,096.3      121.8      1,218.1      1,096.3      121.8      1,218.1        10        0
(a) Fseing lnbmed Decision Makig                  948.6       1SI.4      1,100.0       948.6       151.4      1,100.0        14        0
(b) Establishing Educt  Monitoring
(c) Deveoping (uilding?) Student Asment         13,575.9     2,806.1    16,382.1     13,S7S.9     2,806.1    16,382.1        17        6
Capaiy                                       1S,620.9     3,079.3    18,700.2    15,620.9      3,079.3    18,700.2        16        7
Subtal Impving System-Wide Maagm_s
S.  _     Sotan Schsool AdtisrA   USS7.3
min_)                                           S,262.9      3,291.2     8,SS4.1     S,262.9      3,291.2     8,554.1        38        3
(a) kImpig School Pbnning                       12,048.3      53S.5     12,583.8     12,048.3      535.5     12,583.8        4         5
(b) Proviing Olce Toebnoba                      8,142.9    13,084.8     21,227.7     8,142.9    13,084.8    21,227.7        62         8
(o)         School Leadership                  25,454.2    16,911.5    42,365.7    2S,454.2    16,911.S    42,365.7         40        16
Sub*t      -ngSbool Admhstrtion
C. Davoplng Teaching Comp_eot
(a) EBancing Curculm                            6,153.2      1,483.7     7,636.9     6,153.2      1,483.7     7,636.9        19        3
(b) Training Tache                             39,759.0      1,957.7    41,716.7    39,759.       1,957.7    41,716.7        5        16
(c) Evabating Classrwm Inrvention               2,255.4       250.6      2,506.0     2,255.4       2S0.6      2,SO6.0        10        1
Subtoal Develping Teaching Competence              48,167.6     3,692.0    S18s59.6    48,167.6      3,692.0    51,859.6        7        19
D. Prviding Inuctoal Matial (US$121.S million)
(a) Dliveng Tadxboo                             42,S28.0     4,523.1    47,0S1.1    42,528.0      4,523.1    47,051.1        10       t8
(b) Sating Up Reading Coms & School Libies      25,687.6     5,832.4    3S,19.9    25,687.6       S,832.4    31,519.9        19       12
(¢) Supplying Teahing Kt                        20,212.4     6,384.8    26,597.2    20,212.4      6,384.8    26,597.2        24       10
Subtotal Prviding Inwuional Materab                88,428.0    16,740.3    10S,168.3    88,428.0    16,740.3    105,168.3       16       40
B. Uppdng Flity Mnagemet (US$49.9 million)
(a) Adding School Fciits                       3,3S8,.1      5,274.S    43,632.7    38,358.1    S5274.5    43,632.7          12       16
(b) RatoaHzing Facily Utilization                 419.8        63.3        483.1       419.8        63.3       483.1         13        0
Subtoal Upgmading Faciliky Managmet               38,777.9      5,337.8    44,11s.8    38,777.9      5,337.8    44,11S.8        12       17
F. Pwject Manage_mt                                3,297.7       651.7      3,949.4     3,297.7       6S1.7      3,949.4        17        1
Total BASELJNE COSIS                            219,746.2    46,412.6    266,158.8    219,746.2    46,412.6   266,158.8       17      100
Physia Contingencies                               10,545.6     3,540.0    14,08S.5    10,545.6      3,540.0    14,085.5        2S        S
Pric Contiagaeci                                   18,27S.6     3,371.4    21,647.0     18,275.6     3,371.4    21,647.0        16        8
Total Pojeot coss                                 248,567.5    53,23.9    301,891.4   248,567.5    S3,323.9    301,891.4        18      113



Annex Table SB: Project Cost Sunmary by Expenditure Acoumt
(US$ '000)                       (US$ '000)                      % Total
Foreign    Base
Local     Foreign     Total      Local     Foreign     Total    Exchage   Cost
A. Civil Works                 37,855.6    4,206.2   42,061.8   37,855.6    4,206.2   42,061.8        10       16
B. Goods
1. Equpmnt                     4,146.7    16,587.0   20,733.7    4,146.7    16,587.0  20,733.7       8O         8
2. Furniture                   6,492.7       721.4   7,214.1    6,492.7       721.4   7,214.1         10        3
3. Vehicles                      424.2       424.2      848.4     424.2       424.2      848.4       50         0
4. Textbooks                   39,546.0    4,394.0   43,940.0   39,546.0    4,394.0   43,940.0        10       17
S. Other Educational Materials  48,838.5    16,279.5   65,118.0   48,838.5    16,279.5   65,118.0    25        24
Subtotal Goods                99,448.1    38,406.1  137,854.2   99,448.1    38,406.1  137,854.2      28        52
C. Capacity Building
1. Policy Support              2,457.0       273.0    2,730.0   2,457.0       273.0   2,730.0        10         1
2. Institiongal Development    4,338.8       481.2    4,820.0    4,338.8      481.2    4,820.0        10        2
3. Implementaion Support       10,808.6     1,201.0   12,009.5   10,808.6    1,201.0   12,009.5      10         5
4. Training                    59,661.1     1,845.2   61,506.2   59,661.1    1,845.2   61,506.2       3        23
Subtotal Technical Assistance  77,265.4    3,800.3   81,065.7   77,265.4    3,800.3   81,065.7        5        30
D. Operations
1. Incremetal Salaries           500.0         0.0     500.0      500.0         0.0     500.0         0         0
2. Maintenance                 3,546.2         0.0    3,546.2    3,546.2        0.0    3,546.2        0         1
3. Supervision                  1,131.0        0.0    1,131.0    1,131.0        0.0    1,131.0        0         0
Subtotal Operations            5,177.1         0.0    5,177.1    5,177.1        0.0    5,177.1        0         2
Total BASELINE COSTS        219,746.2    46,412.6  266,158.8  219,746.2    46,412.6  266,158.8     17       100
Pbysical Contingencies         10,545.6    3,540.0   14,085.5   10,545.6    3,540.0   14.085.5       25         5
Price Contingencies            18,275.6    3,371.4   21,647.0   18,275.6    3,371.4   21,647.0       16         8
Total PROJECT COSTS         248,567.5    53,323.9  301,891.4  248,567.5    53,323.9  301,891.4     18       113



-56-                Annex.Ubl D SC
Aanec- T5able .15gt  E1!nditure Accounts by Fnancier
(US$ '0)
State
Govemnment    IBRD        Total
A. Civ;t'OW,ot'rk                    35,887.1   11,962.4   47,849.4
I . 'zr'qu7pYnt                 4,362.1   19,274.6   23,637.4
I?ulintuIre~,                   4,040.5    4,122.2    8,162.7
3. N/ehicles                        248.9      656.2       905.1
4. Textkhooks                     50,216.7        -     50,216.7
5. Other zducatonal materials     21.019.0   55504,4    X,523.4
.S'ubtotal Goods                    79,887.9   79,557.3  159,445.2
C. Tehchnical Assistance
1. Poficy support                   998.8    2,150.3    3,139.2
2. Tnstitutional development       1,729.7    3,760.5    5,490.2
: implementation support           4,260.5    9,264.9   13,525.5
. Trnuaiinng                      23.131.4   43.306.2   6437
Subtotal Technical Assistance       30,110.4   58,481.9   88,592.4
D. Incremental Salaries                 545.1        -        545.1
E. ('-eradlons
1. Maiwtenance                    4,163.9        -       4,163.9
es Suiervision                     1.225.4       -       129.4
Subltotal Oix.ratoiis
Tio-iAT D;Si;uRsEmTF                151,889.8  150,001.6  301,891.4



Annex Table SD: Procurement Arnigements
(US$ million equivalent)
Method of orocurement       _
International   Local      Consultant
Category                                ICB'      LCBb        shopping      shopoing     services     NBP        Total
1.  Civil works                          -        24.0           _           23.9            _          _        47.9
(6.0)                     (6.0)                              (12.0)
2.  Equipment                            18.9       -            _            4.8             -         _        23.7
(16.0)                               (3.8)                              (19.8)
3.  Furniture                             2.5      4.1           _            1.6             _         _         8.2
(1.1)    (1.9)                      (0.8)                               (3.8)
4.  Vehicles                              _        0.9           _             _              -         -         0.9
(0.6)                                                         (0.6)
5.  Textbooks                            _     -          -             -             -                50.2      50.2
(0.0)    (0-0)
6.  Other educational materials          153      7.7          0.8           52.7            .                  763
( 1.0)    (5.6)        (0.8)        (37.9)                              (55.3)
7.  7echniical assi-tance                -          -                                        88.6                88.6
(5g s)        ~~(53.5)
rfl2 InT >nrtta1 salaries            -         -          _               -                   O.S) S
9.  main"lzp S. ac~-.                                                                                   (0.0)
'. ¶tti),          _                    -                       - _   -                     - 1s i.
. ~~~~~_ .__.._ _                           ,... . 4..... ... ... __.   ..  ___s,&$b4   ,         '$.     
P7 ..*f *1                                                  * 
; t  S ! F . . i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I
V io,c,o., ,,bo,# , ,,X jj5



-58-                   An= Tabl 51
Annex Table SE: PIshmement Amcounts by E;nwlcier
state
Govenmnent   IBRD         Total
A. Civil Works                  35,887.1    11,962.4    47,849.4
B. Goods
1. Furnire, equipment, and
vehicles                   6,493.8    22,614.1    29,107.9
2. Textbooks                 50,216.7        -      50,216.7
3. Other educational materials    18.8207    54l,038.  72,8256
Subtotal Goods                 75,531.2    76,652.9   152,184.2
C. Grants                        5,682.9     3,788.6    9,471.5
D. Technical Assistance         28,784.2    57,597.8    86,381.9
E. Incremental SaIlaes             545.1        -         545.1
F. Operations                     -M52         _  
TOTAL DisuRsEkENr              151,889.8   150,001.6   301,891.4



-59-                      An  ok 5
Annex Table SF: PIroject Fsmated Disbuuemeut Sdcdul by Quirter
Disbursement        Cumulative disbursement
IDRD fiscal year      in quarter
and quarter ending   (US$ million)     USS million       % of tot
FY1994
June 30, 1994                10.0*            10.0               7
FY1995
September 30, 1994            2.0             12.0               8
December 31, 1994             1.0             13.0               9
March 31, 1995                5.0             18.0              12
June 30, 1995                 6.0             24.0              16
FY1996
September 30, 1995            5.0             29.0              19
December 31, 1995             6.0             35.0              23
March 31, 1996                7.0             42.0              28
June 30, 1996                 7.0             49.0              33
FY1997
September 30, 1996            8.0             57.0              38
Decmber 31, 1996              9.0             66.0              44
March 31, 1997                9.0             75.0              S0
June 30, 1997                 9.0             84.0              56
FY1998
September 30, 1997           10.0             94.0              63
December 31, 1997            10.0            104.0              69
March 31, 1998               10.0            114.0              76
June 30, 1998                10.0            124.0              83
FY1999
September 30, 1998            8.0            132.0              88
December 31, 1998             6.0            138.0              92
March 31, 1999                5.0            143.0              95
June 30, 1999                 3.0            146.0              97
FY2000
September 30, 1999            1.0            147.0              98
December 31, 1999             3.0            150.0             100
intia depo.t in specid accont



Annex B: Annex Notes



-62-                    x  Not B. 1
Lessons Learned from Bank Lending ih Education
C(umuative Bank expeience with education projects in the developing world
indicates that the following factors, all of which are taken into account in the
design of the proposed project, are kes to success in education project:
(a)    BaJlce between policy refnmw and lnvesftents. The results of the
MONHANGARA Project (2412-BR) indicate that the sector loan format is
inapprriate for the Bailian education sector, given its rlatively weak
institutional capacity. More desirable is the incorporation within investment
loans of a suitable balance of policy changes, hardware and software
investments, and technical assistance, as required to promote sectoral reform.
Also, proper planning is required to avoid the problem of having the
implementation of educational software lag behind that of educational
hardware, especially civil works and school equipment.
(b)    Simp  and robust project design. Because prmary education
activities are inherently complex and sector institutions are generally weak,
partcular care must be exerised to include all critical elements required for
attaining the desired impact, and to exclude activities tangental to the main
focus and objectives of the project. The drawbacks of a diverse group of
investments with multiple goals and several implementing agencies outweigh
the advantages of exhaustive approaches to sectoal problem. More
importandy, project designs should be sufficiently fleible to respond to
changg cirumstances. Resources should be concentrated on key inputs
(sometmes at the expene of many other possible worthwhile yet noncntical
investments in education quality). The exeience of the MONHANGARA
Project also suggests that governments lose interest in projects when marginal
funding is spread thinly over many components or areas.
(c)    Adequa provision of educational software. Since poor teaching
accounts for most of the low achievement in education that occurs in Latin
America, learning envionments must be ennched by augmenting the quantity
as well as quality of educational software, such as textbooks, select  teacher
training, time allotted to leaning, and curiculum development. Research
under the EDURURAL (1867-BR) Project indicated that textbook prvision
and school upgrading are highly efficient investments. Teacher training
continues to be an important element of primary education projects, with more
emphasis on upgrding than on cerification.
(d)   EstabiW ent ofprog       g, moniodag, and evauaion systems.
Evaluation and monitoring systems, based on sound methodology and on
specifying progress indicators and targets, should be in place as early as
possible to report periodically on the quality and imelinesm of inputs and
products, as well as on the impact of the prqect. This is especially important



-63-                        x NoB1
for Brazil, where series of quantitative data on trends in pupil's academic
achievement and in the productivity of the system are not available. Stronger
emphasis needs to be placed on regular, systemic monitoring and evaluation
compared to more basic educational research.
(e)    Strong project management. Whether integrated into the regular
structure of the implementing agency or self-sufficient, the project
management unit (UCP) should be staffed with qualified personnel familiar
with Bank guidelines and procedures, including a dynamic coordinator fully
committed to the job. Project documents should stipulate the profile of the
full-time project coordinator and a minimum support team, whose experience
and qualifications should be satisfactory to the Bank. The UCP head must
have access to the highest levels of decision makers, as well as structured links
with the specialized technical services of the host agency. In highly
inflationary economies, strong project management is imperative in seeling
flexible administative and financial arrangements to reduce to a minimum the
delays in expenditure, certification, and reimbursement, so as to counteract the
effects of inflation.
()    Up-front attention to  pklementation. Implementation plans for all
project components should be carefully synchronized, since the effectiveness of
'packages" of interventions (such as textbook provision and teacher training
on textbook usage in classroom plus storage facilities and furniture) can be
significantly reduced when implemented in a piecemeal fashion. As a means
of increasing the likelihood of project sustainability, financing for a larger
share of certain critical project components (such as educational software)
should be concentrated in the initial stages of project implementation.
(f)    Otherfacton. Other important fictors related to the success of the
project include: a realistic assessment, during appraisal, of the time required
for actual project implementation; enhanced Bank performance in project
supervision, including early development of supervision plans, midterm
reviews and regular visits to project sites.
Note Ths annex is baSnd on (s) a review of 28 Projedt Completiaon Reports (PCRs) and
Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) about Oducaton projects in Latin
Aerica, including four in Brazil; (b) "Lesons  arnerd sections of Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) Nos. 9769-CH, 11095-ME, and 11298-BR; (C) recommendatins
drawn from the foloing IATHR reports: Regional Studies Progam No. 9, A
View from IATHR No. 31, and Woring Paper No. 1; and (d) R. W. Harbison and
E. Hanushek, Edwational Performance of the Poor: Lessons from Rural Northeast
Bal, World Bank, 1992.



64                    A Nnote B.2
Implementation Strategy of Basic Teacher Traning
Basic Teacher Training-The Multiplier Method of Delivery
Stage I: The same four specialized institutions (insdtOes especkaizadas, or
MEs) contracted to prepare the curriculum guides will be hired to execute Level
I of the training program, that is, to provide 180 hours of training on their
premises to 360 professionals-Level 1 trainees-to be selected, in accordance
with guidelines established by the SEE-MG, from among the teacher taining
staff of 20 leading institutions (instituCIes polo, or IPs), regionally distributed
throughout Minas Gerais. At the end of this training course, the IEs will
evaluate the performance of the Level 1 trainees and retain the best 300 (out of
the 360) as Level 1 trainers charged with training Level 2 trainees.
Stage II: The IPs will execute Level 2 of the training program as designed by
the four IEs. The 20 IPs will charge their 300 Level 1 trainers with providing
180 hours of training on their premises to 8,000 professionals-Level 2
trainees-to be selected in accordance with the guidelines established by the
SEE-MG, from the teaching staff (including area coordinators and mentor
teachers) on the basis of their acknowledged teaching eperfise. At the end of
this training course, the lEs will evaluate the performance of the Level 2
trainees and identify the top 7,700 (out of the 8,000) as Level 2 trainers
charged with delivering school-based training to teachers-Level 3 trainees.
Stage m: The SEE-MG and the 20 IPs will coordinate the delivery of 96
hours of training to about 83,000 first though fourth grade teachers-Level 3
trainees-from state and municipal schools. The traning will be carried out in
schools by the Level 2 trainers under the supervision of Level 1 trainers, who
will periodically visit schools to observe the Level 2 trainers. Level 2 trainers
will make use of lectures, group study, and videotape watching coupled with
task-specific work sheets, role playing, and supervised teaching practice. The
taining will be centered on the Curriculum Guides. Teachers will also be
trained in how to select, use and care for books.
Variations: As a means of evaluating the efficacy of the multiplier method of
delivery, two alternative strategies will be implemented. Alternative 1 will
feature Level 1 trainers providing the Level 3 96 hour -basic training" direcdy
to 3,075 state teachers, thus eliminating the need for the intermediary Level 2
trainers. Alternative 2 will have Level 1 trainers providing 180 hours of
training to 390 selected local professional and teaching staff trainees who will
then return to their respective schools to deliver the Level 3 training to the
remaining approximately 3,075 teachers.



65-                   Anna Note B.3
Project Management Structure
The Project Management Unit (UCP)
FUnuions and responsibilities of the UCP. The principal function of the UCP,
which will report directly to the Secretary of Education, is to assure that
project components are executed according to the agreed-upon terns and
timetable including appropriate synchronization of delivery under the project of
educational software and hardware. The day-to-day management of all project
subcomponents will be performed by the SEE-MG units responsible for their
execution. Each of the implementing offices will report regularly on its
activities once every three months to the UCP, and upon demand. The UCP
will be responsible for, inter alia:
(a)   preparing, with input from the SEE-MG units responsible for execution
of project subcomponent, annual implementation plans to be submitted
to the Bank for approval;
(b)   preparing and submitting to the Bank Statements of Expenditure for
Bank reimbursement, annual and midterm reports, and any other
reports;
(c)   operating a computerized control system for tracking all project-
specific budgeting, procurement, contacting, disbursement,
accounting, and auditing, to be linked to the SEE-MG management
information system and the educational monitoring system to be
established with project support;
(d)   oranizing, based on need, workshops to train staff from UCP and
executing unit heads in planning and programming techniques and
tools, competitive bidding and other procurement methods, accounting
procedures and tools, public works supervision, disbursement practices
and requirements, and project monitoring;
(e)   developing and executing a sound IEC program, to be financed under
the project, to foster greater awareness and acceptance among parents,
teachers and parents of project objectives and activities;
(f)   organizing periodic seminars and related events aimed at disseminating
project findings and results to stakeholders and constituencies;
(g)   liaising with the CA, the Permanent Procurement Commission
(Comissao Permanente de Licita4o), the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP), the Bank, municipal education authorities,
federal agencies, and other government agencies, as required.



w                          Am=Nt   .
Staffing. The UCP staff will be composed of a core team of high-level
professionals with the responsibilities and minimum quaifications described in
the table below. The fl-time staff will be selected in consultation with the
Bank, and could include regular civil servants and/or consultants. This core
staff will be supported by short-term consultants and administrate and
clerical staff as needed. The profile and responsibilites of the UCP staff are
described below:
Position      Responsibilities                 Minimum Qualifations
Project       Manage all UCP activities,       Higher education degree in a
manager       coordinate execution of all proect   professional field other th
(full-time)   components, and be the focal point  education; at least thuee years of
for contacts between project staff    experience in planning and
and the World Bank.              management of projects, prefetably
with international suport
Deputy        Serve as project advisor for     Higher education dege in
project       education matters and issues, and,   education or social sciences, at least
manager       wben necessry, substitute for the   three years of experience in
(full-tm)     project manager.                 education administraton, proven
competence as an educator.
Procurement   Coordinate/support/supervise     Professional gher education
assistant     project procurement activities.  degree in admistration,
(part-time)                                    engineering, or a related field; at
least two yea  of expernence in
charge of procurement of
comparable complexity.
Computer      Coordinate/support/supervise the  Higher education degree in
systems       development and utilization of   computer sciences or related field;
assistant     computerizd systems in the       at least two years of experence in
(full-time)   project, including all electronic  operating system of comparable
databases and records.           complexity; proficient in word
processing, and use of spedset
_                       ~~~~~~~~~and data base softwae.
Technical     Among other things, set up and   Higher education dgee in
support staff   maintain project files, prepare  economics, busdnes or accounting,
= 2 (full-    documents (as needed), work with    with at leastvto years of
time)         the various executing units to   expeience in accounting  stem  of
ensure an adequate flow of       comparable complexity.
information, and prepare
documents, as needed.
Secretarial   Provide secretarial and clerical  At least secdary education,
support staff,  aswistance to all high-level staff.  literacy in computer usage, and
as needed                                      proficiency in te use of office
.________   ._____.____ -_ _._    technology system.



-67-                     Ane Note B.3
The High-Levl Advocacy Committee (CA)
This committee wi}l not have deliberative powers. It is proposed to serve as a
counter-weight for possible deviations from the project's orientation and
strategies, ensuring its continuity across SEE-MG administrations as agreed
with the Bank. It would operate in two subcommittees, one internal and one
external. The function of the inernal subcommittee is to ensure that all
necessary means for successful project execution are available on a timely
basis. The function of the external subcommittee is to lobby for consistency
and continuity in project execution, as required to achieve project objectives.
The CA was appointed by a Governor's Decree (No. 35423) dated March 3,
1994. The CA will meet once a semester, or when called by its president, by
the project coordinator, or by a written request of at least four members. The
CA will review and comment on the Annual Implementation and the Annual
Progress Reports before they are submitted to the Bank. The committee will
also review the nidterm review report and the Project Completion Report.
The composition of the CA is as follows:
No. of   Internal Committee        No. of   External Committee
a_eI                                pe8j_
1       Deputy St  Secrtay of     1        A distinguhed educator
Education (as preident)
1       lbe Presidet of the MG
1       Deputy State Secrety of            branch of UNDIME
Planing of MG
2       The President and Vice-
I       Deputy State Secretary of           President of the Federation of
Teary of MG                        Parents Assocations
Plus represenatiws from the:       Plus reresentatves from the:
2       Relevant SEE-MG            1        State Council of Children and
subsecrdatiats                     Youth Rightb
2       Project Coordination (UCP)  1       Executive Grow of the MG
Pact for Education
1       Secretiat of Internafional
Affairs of MG              1       Union of Public Elementary
Education Teachers
I       State Council of Education
1       Parents Brach of the
Association of State School
Councils of MG
1       UNICEF Office in Brazil
9                                  2   F



-68-                  An= Note B
The Technical Evaluation Comm_tee (AVA-CTA)
The principal function of the AVA-CrA is to carry out annual accreditation
reviews of the student assessment and the monitoring system to be supported
under the project. The AVA-CrA will review, inter alia, fte applied
methodology, the validity of the measurement instruments, and profile of the
staff responsible for the two systems, Its composition will be as follows: (a)
three well-known Brazilian educators, (b) one international expert in education
assessment, and (c) one intemational expert in educational monitoring, all with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.



-69-                  Annex Note B1.4
Planning and Reporting under the Project
A.   Annua  Operadonal Plan. Each annual operational plan (ano
operadvo anual, or POA) should not have more ta 50 pages (including
tables and annexes), with the following content:
Operational Statement by project component and subcomponent,
identifying the major tasks to be initiated, continued and/or
completed during the subject year, including physical and
financial targets.
Activity Budget by component and subcomponent for all tasks to be
implemented during the subject year, including relevant
quantities and units, plus costs.
Schedule of Activities specafying, on a month by month basis, the
critical path of activities to be followed for each activity.
Monitoring Matrix specifying those input, throughput and output
indicators (and their target values) related to the planned task.
B.    Annual Pngress Repoas (Relat6rio Anual de Acompanhamento, or
RAA). No later than March 1 of each year the UCP will submit to the
Advisory Committee a draft of the RAA, with the exception of secon
(f)-comments and recommendations of the high-level advisory committee
(CA) on the draft report. The CA will review this material, ask for additional
infbrmation if necessary, and prepare by March 31 a set of comments and
recommendations to be included as section (f) of the RAA. The UCP together
with the pertinent directorates will finalize the RAA and send it to the World
Bank by May 15 of each year. All the issues raised by the CA should be
addressed by the SEE-MG in the Action Plan section of the report. The RAA
should be prepared following the oudine below, and it should not be more than
30 pages long (excluding annexes).
Executive Summary (5 pages maximum): (i) overview of main project
activities and results during the period covered by the report,
highlighting and explaining main differences between planned
and acal targets; (ii) main adjustments made dunng the period
of the report to project design, and jusfification (e.g.
recommendation in previous RAA, results of study/evaluation);
and (iii) main recommendations for actions to be taken within
90 days.
Body of the Report (20 pages maximum): six sections highlighting
and bnefly explaining main differences between planned and



-70-                  Annex Note B.
actual in the following project areas: (a) summary of activities;
0b) financial performance; (c) summary of procurement
activities; (d) summary of project outcomes; (e)
recommendations (consolidation of the recommendations made
by the units responsible for the execution of the various project
components. to improve project performance); and (f)
comments of the high-level advisory committee (CA) on the
draft report.
Follow-up Action Plan (5 pages maximum): SEE-MG response to the
comments and recommendations in sections (e) and (f), plus
corresponding action plans: (i) actions taken/to be taken by the
SEE-MG; (ii) actions taken/to be taken by the World Bank; and
(iii) actions taken/to be taken by others (Governor, CA, etc.).
Report Annexes:
(a) Annual Project Implementation Plan.
0b) Tables: (i) balance of project contracting, expenditures and
disbursements by subcomponent and by category of
penditure; (ii) status of key project performance
indicators.
C.    Annual Auditors' Repoils. Not later than June 30 of each year
stating in 1994, the SEE-MG will send to the Bank a copy of the auditors'
report covering activities of the previous year, together with a descnption of
the actions taketo be taken in order to respond to the auditor's observations,
requests and recommendations.
1).   AMkfenn Progress Repolt (MTPR). The MTPR will follow the same
outline as the RAAs, but will include the findings of the midterm project
review to be completed early in 1997. In addition to information directly
related to the project, the MTPR will address state-wide education sector
issues. In particular, the MTPR would include an additional section reporting
on overall changes in sectoral policies and management, and their effect on
project execution.
E.    Hinal Report. A Final Report of the project will be prared in
accordance with World Bank guidelines, and will be submitted to the Bank
within six months of loan closing.



-71-                  Annex Note B.5
Timetable of Critical lIplementation Actions
(Cronogzma de Ap6es Cdicas de Implementaro (CACI))
Draft Version
(Subject to Change)
1994
January                Start in-service training for about 4,300 newly
appointed principals.
By June 15             Adopt a monitoring matrix satisfactory to the
Bank and based on a draft submitted to the Bank
as part of the Project Implementation Plan.
By June 15             Submit to the Bank, for review, the umbrella
terns of reference for technical assistance in
teacher training.
By June 30             Contract with UNDP, according to terms of
reference agreed upon during negotiations, to
issue most consultant service contracts and carry
out selected equipment procurement.
By June 30             Submit to the Bank umbrella terms of reference
for contracting technical assistance aimed at
strengthening SEE's capacity in student
assessment.
July                   Provide 40 hours of in-service triing to about
6,000 state school directors and other school
managers.
By October 31          Develop and distribute guidelines on the
preparation of School Development Plans
(PDEs).
By October 31          Ensure that auditing arrangements are in place.
By October 31          Transmit to the Bank satisfactory final terms of
reference for evaluation of the teacher traning
program.
By October 31          Appoint a high-level technical committee



-72-                  Amex Note B.
(AVA-CTA) to oversee the development of a
student assessment capacity within SEE/MG.
By December 15          Submit to the Bank for review the draft contract
for technical assistance in teacher training.
By December 31          Contract evaluation of teacher training program.
By December 31          Submit to the Bank the signed contract with one
or more local institutions for the purpose of
securing technical assistance in student
assessment, in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. As part of the
terns of the contract, the local institution(s) will
be required to enter into technical cooperation
arrangements with a foreign institution with
established know-how in the field.
1995
January                 Provide 80 hours of in-service taining in school-
based management to about 12,0OU
administration staff working in state schools.
By March 31             Ensure that the AVA-CrA (**) completes the
first annual accreditation review of the AVA-
MG. Based on the recommendations of the AVA-
CrA, prepare, with the help of the technical
assistance provider(s), a draft action plan for
improvement of the AVA-MG (**).
By June 30              Submit to the Bank for review a copy of the final
action plan for improvement of the AVA-MG.
By December 31          For the purpose of extending to municipal school
systems the Minas Gerais AVA-MG, enter into
agreement with as many municipalities as
required in order to compose a sample of at least
10 percent of the students in municipal
elementary schools.



-73-                  Amex NM B.S
1996
At least 30 days       Ensure that UCP sends to the Bank a midterm
before the scheduled   progress report.
date for the project
midterm review
1998
January                Start in-service training to the more than 6,000
newly appointed directors and other school
managers.
July                   Provide 40 hours of in-service training to about
12,000 state school administration staff worldng
in state schools.
1999
January                Provide 80 hours of in-service training in school-
based management to about 12,000
administration staff working in state schools.
June 30                Project completion date.
December 31            Project closing date.
Each Year
No later than July     Submit to the Bank for approval a proposed
15 of each year,       annual operating plan for project activities to be
starting in 1994       executed in the subsequent year of project
execution, prepared in accordarnce with a pre-
agreed format and including detailed schedules,
physical targets, and a proposed budget.



-74-                  AMneX Note B
No later than one      Provide every public elementary school student
month after the        with a set of textbooks, regardless of the nature
beginning of each      of support from the federal government.
school year, starting
in 1995
No later than May I    Submit to the Bank for review an annual progress
of each year,          report on the project, including, inter alia,
starting in 1995       (a) a summary of project activities and results
during the period covered by the report,
highlighting and briefly explaining the main
difference between planned and actual;
(b) comments and recommendations of the high-
level advisory committee (CA); and (c) an action
plan for resolving problems, if any.
No later than June     Hold annuai p. :ject implementation reviews
15 of each year,       jointly with LAe Bank, focusing on (a) the status
starting in 1995       of implementation and progress towards the
achievement of project objectives, as measured
by the monitoring indicators agreed upon with
the Bank; (b) a discussion of the draft annual
operating plan for the following year;
(c) deviations from the Project Implementation
Plan; and (d) the state performance on
disbursement of counterpart funding for financing
its share of the project.
No later than June     Funish to the Bank audit reports of the operation
30 of each year,       of aUl project accounts in the previous year,
starting in 1995       prepared by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles and practices.
By March 31 of         Ensure that the AVA-CIA completes the annual
each year, starting    accreditation review of the AVA-MG.
in 1995
**    The AVA-CrA is the technical accreditation committee for the Minas
Gerais student assessment program (AVA-MG).



-75-                       Annex 
Table of Contets of Project            Plpleetation Ylan (PI[P)
(Mrch 199
Cbapter 1  Summary of Project Stuctr
Chapter 2 Description of Implementation Strategy, by Subcomponent
Chapter 3 Project Coordination
Annexe:
1. Annotated cost estimate tables by components and subcomponents
2. Operational scaedules for CY93/94
3. Procurement method matrix by activity
4. Project-specific model bidding documents for works and goods
4.1 ICBJworks (in Spanish)
4.2 ICB/goods (in Spanish)
4.3 LCB/works (in Portuguese)
4.4 LCB/goods (in Portuguese)
5. Sdected project-specific draft terms of reference
6. Opational schedule for implementation of textbook component
with FAE assistance
7. Backup stategy for implementation of textbook component
8. Thnetable of critical implementation actions (CACI)
9. Monitoring matrix (to be added by June 30, 1994)



-76-                        A         D
Seected Documents Available in the Project BUe
A. Background Documents
1. Gestao da Esco.a: Questes e     Bsclareciments (School Management:
Issues and Clarifications), SEE-MG, 1993.
2. GesOo da Escola hundaental: SItaMo Atual e Tendencias
(Elementary School Management: Present Status and Trends), [PEA,
19S3, by J. A. Sobrinho, A. C. R. Xavier, and F. Marra.
3. Gestlvo da QWal Wade Total em Educado (Total Quality Mfagement
in Education), IPEA, 1993, by Lin Cheng Wen Tzeng.
4. Compilation of educational statistics for Brazil and Minas Gerais,
April 1993.
S. Repasse de Recursos para a Escola: Cridnos, Mecanismos e
TedEncias-A Exper(Owla de Minas Gerais (Financial Transfers to
Schools-The Experience of Minas Gerais), IPEA, 1993, by Walfrido
Guia-Neto.
6. A RealUade da Educavao em Minas Gerais (Te Education Reality of
Minas Geais), 1991, by Walfrido Guia-Neto.
7. Progrwna de Educaio pam o Governo HIlio Garda (The Education
Progam of the Helio Garcia Govenment), 1991-94.
B. Project Preparaio Documents
8. Odiginal project proposal, April 1993
9. Summary matrix of administrative responsibilities of the SEE-MG
itself, regional offices (DREs) and schools, April 1993.
10. Statewide sector profile of at-risk municpalities, April 1993.
11. Analyses of state education spending, multiple yeas.
12. Metodologla para o Cdlkuo do ReIaOo Aluwos por Seividor
(Methodology for Compufing Student-Staff Ratios), July 1993, by L.
B. Gomes-Neto.
13. Programa Nacional do Lwvro D"ico 1994, Versdo Minas Gerais
(Ihe National TIextook Program of 1994, The Minas Gerais Version),
SEE-MG, November 1993.
14. Manual de E&ecu$do OrCamdria e Fl4anira das Unidades
Gestoras, SEE-MG, Superintendencia de Finangas da SEE-MG, 1993.
15. Educaao para Todos-Minas Aponta o Caminho (Education for
All-Minas Shows the Way), November 1993, UNICEF.
16. Plano de A4to para a Meowria de Desempenho do Escola E:stadul
Madre Carmelita (School Development Plan for the Madre Carmelita
State School), Belo Horizonte, 1992.



-77-                        Anneo D
C. Project Executton Documents
17. Policy Letter on Basic Education Quality Improvement in Minas
Gerais, April 1994.
18. A Polfdca Educacional de Minas Gerais 1991-1994, January 1994
(The Educational Policy of the State of Minas Gerais 1991-1994).
19. Pacto de Minas pela EducaraoEdwdo de Qualidade para Todos e
Todos pela Qualidade da Educa$o (The Minas Pact for
Education-Quality Education for All and All for Quality Education),
November 1993.
20. Project Implementation Plan (PIP), March 1994, with 9 amnexes.
Note:  Most documents ae in Portugues only.



MAP SECTION



5Q}             45H                                                                           *                                       BRAZIL
,5,0  100  1;0   200                                                   .AHIA                                                                                                       STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
7lloMErfts  9  g   7                                                                                  BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY
The dojdro.clr.-seormai-tn- -nd an ther I, frm-
.ho.oonlisar  do not gnpIy.  da pand o-frhoWorld BasIsroop. *h  *. J - i                                                                                                                         IMPROVEMENT  PROJECT
jonrjdmossson lsholoo) lobs eof ony Mrrnor, or ooy ossdrsrrmons  ,o....J  )    .                                                                                                                     (PRO  QUALIDADE)
< F D ]   s                                       JonucricO                                     \,                                         tt                ECONOMIC REGIONS
ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
_P-d  Alm  croo                                         0      SELECTED CITIES
I.     I                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Atn,e6ro0      STATE CAPITALS
1>Cioisnoa               t-                                          Monino GnrosM  C                                               (wo                                             STATE BOUNDARIES
_/Proro o                                                             (                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
t4Nonuqm%%
f>,)  Piraporo O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SITD ECN
Olooi~~~~~~~~~~~4                                              115000010 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRTCIAION U5
*. (> whh   _,,  ^ O t   1          ECONOMIC REGICONS:              PSTAH GDP
METALURGICAECAMPOSDASVERTENTES  51%
MATA                                 8%
04009 0                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.,-nlo,               Go-asodor                                                            SUL                                  13%
dIIiqtab      "               Paor    t ,                           Crl                                 Vdmolod           -- -"                                              TRIANGULO E ALTO PARANAIBA             13%
V/'j  IV  1 >    x  \*                                                 ESPIRITO                                    ALTO SAO FRANCISCO                   4%
IV                                                                        I                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOROESTE  .5%
-.4                 IV ~~~~~~~0rodBeoSANTO                                                                                                                                            JEQUITINNONNA                         2%
U6sr.b.o                          11 Bo0 D.spochn     HorBzonte    Johe                                                                                     RIO DOCE                              6%
r  -_1                              -.7.                 Divinprii6   dlbOna    Novo Limo  t                         *                                                                               TOTAL    100%
- 0Formigo                     OOro Prsoo                                                             20
Odo Poroiso             6nP  e~*L0i6i
7..<'o*oocpi                                       Cologoobos0 ~9o Jooo del Rei  M.601 J   t                                 ciOrio          *  
A        0 J.iz de Foro  0.J
S AO              P A U L O 0- 't        
SAO         ,4t°,5iPY tl                  RiO DE JANEIRO.
~~~t~~~~~ioI~~~~~~~~9.jn.d1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PERU                                                 -
Rio de Janeiro                                                                      BOLIVIA
\                                                       r                                                                                                       G .ouVl             <   Y /  \ 
PARANA                                                                                                                                                                                                         PAaAGUA 
/10'  A .  4gS-  <  (   iMrARCHINA   /<9
MARCH iV1W



