Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25412
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37330)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT O:F US$150.0 MILLION
TO THE
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
02/118/2003
Brazil Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2003)
Currency Unit = Brazilian Real
3.2929 Brazilian Reales = US$ I
US$ 0.3037 = 1 Brazilian Real
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AVA-CTA       Technical Accreditation Committtee for Student Assessment (Comite
Tcnico de Avalia,ao para o A VA-MGI)
CA            High-Level Advisory Committee (Comite de Assessoramento)
CBA           Basic Learning Cycle (Ciclo Basico de Aprendizagem)
LDB           National Education Law (1996) (Lei de Diretrizes e Bases)
MEC           Ministry of Education (Ministrio da Educa,do e do Desporto)
PAA           Learning Acceleration Program (Programa de Acelera,do de
Aprendizagem)
PATE          Support Program for School Innovations (Programa de Apofo as
Inovafdes Escolares)
PDE           School Development Plan (Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola)
PROCAP        Teacher In-Service Training Program (Programa de Capacitacdo de
Professores)
PROCAD        School Principal Training Program (Programa de Capacitaqdo de
Diretores)
PRODEC        Curriculum Development and Enrichment Project (Projeto de
Desenvolvimnento e Enriquecimento Curricular)
RIG           System-wide Information Report (Relatorio de Indicadores Globais)
SAEB          National Student Assessment System (Sistema Nacional de Avaliaqdo
da Educa,co Basica)
SEE/MG        Education Secretariat of the State of Minas Gerais (Secretaria Estadual
de Educa,cio de Minas Gerais)
SIMAVE        Minas Gerais Public Education Evaluation System (Sistema Mineiro de
Avaliacao da Educa,cdo Publica)
SRE           Regional Education Superintendents (formerly DRE) (
Superintendencias Regionais de Educacao)
UCP           Project Coordination Unit (Unidade de Coordena,cdo do Projeto)
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Vinod Thomas
Sector Director:   Ana-Maria Arriagada
Sector Manager:    Marito H. Garcia
Task Team Leader:     Ricardo Rocha Silveira



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENT'S
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                10
6. Sustainability                                                                    12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   15
9. Partner Comments                                                                  17
10. Additional Information                                                           20
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                33






Project ID: P006543                                     Project Name: BR- MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDU.
Team Leader: Ricardo Rocha Silveira                     TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: February 18, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: BR- MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDU.                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-37330
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Primary education (58%); Tertiary education (22%);
Sub-national government administration (20%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/08/1993                            Effective: 06/05/1995       06/05/1995
Appraisal:  06/07/1993                              MTR: 03/01/1998          07/01/1998
Approval:  05/17/1994                            Closing: 06/28/2000         06/28/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/STATE SECRETARIAT
Other Partners: FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                       Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Vinod Thomas                            R. B. Steckhan
Sector Manager:      Marito H. Garcia                        Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:  Ricardo Rocha Silveira                  Alcyone Saliba
ICR Primary Author:  Thomas Luschei; Amber Gove
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Irnpact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Minas Gerais Basic Education Quality Improvement Project (Pr6-Qualidade) was to
improve educational attaimnent in the State of Minas Gerais, as defined by significant increases in student



leaming and completion rates at elementary school. To achieve this goal, the project would provide
essential educational inputs and services benefitting elementary school students in grades one through eight.
The project was designed to support ongoing state govenmment initiatives pertaining to education policies,
investments, and management systems. The specific objectives of the project were to: (a) provide managers
in the central and regional offices with tools to make information-based decisions; (b) help school directors
take on new roles as leaders and managers in a more decentralized education system; (c) increase training
opportunities for teachers; (d) deliver a package of instructional materials, especially textbooks, to students
in public schools; and (e) upgrade management of school facilities to ensure equitable access for students
and encourage the rational use of school space. To achieve these objectives, the project was to finance
educational materials, school equipment and furniture, vehicles, civil works, technical assistance (including
training), and operational expenses.
The project objective was congruent with the Government education priorities and with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS).
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised the following components:
A. Improving System-Wide Management (US$ 20.2 million or 6.7 percent of total project cost with
contingencies), through student learning assessments, imnproved education monitoring systems, and the
promotion of information-based decision making.
B. Strengthening School Administration (US$ 45.9 million or 15.2 percent of total project cost with
contingencies), through systematic school planning -- including school development grants,
strengthened school leadership, and enhanced office technology systems.
C. Developing Teaching Competence (US$ 56.2 million or 18.6 percent of total project cost with
contingencies), through in-service teacher training in classroom management (including textbook use
and curriculum knowledge), enhanced development of the elementary school curriculum, and support
for evaluation of education interventions.
D. Providing Instructional Materials (US$ 123.6 million or 40.9 percent of total project cost with
contingencies), through the acquisition and timely delivery of textbooks to all students enrolled in
public elementary schools, the setting up of reading corners and school libraries, and the supply of
teaching kits.
E. Upgrading Facility Management (US$ 51.8 million or 17.2 percent of total project cost with
contingencies), through investment in school constructions designed to allow all state primary schools
to operate in two daytime shifts of four and a half hours each. This component also provided for
measures to rationalize the use of school facilities.
F. Project Management (US$ 4.3 million or 1.4 percent of total project cost with contingencies). This
component supported the operation of a Project Coordination Unit (UCP) and the operations expenses
of the project.
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
During project implementation, no components were introduced or removed. There were two activity
revisions introduced in a manner consistent with project objectives. The first revision involved enhancing
curriculum development which was part of Component C. The original activity was designed to support
development of curriculum guides for teachers in mathematics, Portuguese, social sciences, and natural
sciences. In 1997 this activity was revised to include the Programa de Acelera,ao de Aprendizagem
(PAA), or Learning Acceleration Program, which consisted of a statewide effort to prepare teachers to
provide accelerated instruction to over-aged students grouped in special classes, in order to reduce high
age-grade distortion in the first four grades of primary school. Also in 1997, an activity was included in
Component E -- Nuclea,do Rural -- effecting a clustering of isolated rural classrooms into the newly
constructed nucleus schools.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality of the project at entry was satisfactory. The project was consistent with the objectives of the
CAS and priorities of the Secretaria Estadual de Educagdo do Estado de Minas Gerais (SEE/MG), as
well as the Bank's safeguard policies. A review of QAG rated the project design as satisfactory.
While the project was relatively complex and demanding, as it included five components and 14
subcomponents covering a diverse set of objectives, the scope of the project was focused on improving
public elementary education in a single state. The project generally sought to reinforce and consolidate
several educational innovations that were already on-going in Minas Gerais. Nevertheless, given the lack
of experience of the SEE/MG with Bank loans, the comprehensive scope of the project might have
exceeded the capacity of the implementation agency in the early project years. Moreover, according to the
Project Coordination Unit (UCP), objectives for the Monitoring and Evaluation subcomponent were
initially not clearly linked to planned actions, leading to lack of clarity regarding the implementation
process.
According to the Quality of Supervision Assessment performed in 1997, the overall quality of the project
after one year was satisfactory. Supervision of the project was also rated satisfactory for Focus on
Development Impact, Supervision of Fiduciary Aspects, and Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and
Processes. The project was rated marginal for Realism of Project Performance Ratings.
3.6 Assessment of Project Design:
The project's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified several risks that might affect project
implementation. These risks were related to possible weakening of political commitment to the project
objectives and policy framework, resistance on the part of school teachers and principals, and the eventual
collapse of the federal/state partnership for the financing of textbooks. Several measures were taken to
mitigate these risks, including the issuance of a policy letter by the SEE/MG, a communications campaign
aimed at informiing teachers and principals about the aims and activities of the project, and specific legal
conditions to ensure the provision of textbooks. The implementation experience demonstrated that these
anticipated problems did not occur. Commitment to the objectives of the project was reinforced by the
State Government when it issued a "State of Minas Gerais Pact for Education" in which the project was a
central element. This "Pact" sought to commit parents, students, teachers, politicians, labor unions,
businesses, industry and the media to support improvements in the quality of education in the state.
- 3 -



Notwithstanding the positive policy environment which supported project implementation, the overall
assessment of the design of the project is mixed. On the positive side, the project design made good use of
lessons learned from previous projects. The design reflected a good balance between policy reforms and
investment (as in Monhangara, Loan 2412-BR), made adequate provisions of efficient information systems
(as in EDURURAL, Loan 1867-BR), and created a strong project coordinating unit. The project design
was less satisfactory in establishing a clear link between project activities and project objectives. In
hindsight, the design of certain components, or the required timing of their implementation such as in the
case of the monitoring and evaluation system, was overly ambitious given the pioneering nature of the
education reforms that were envisaged.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The central objective of the project was satisfactorily achieved, as shown by performance
indicators of improved student learning and higher elementary school completion rates.
Improved student learning achievement was measured by student promotion rates and direct evaluation
of learning achievements. The indicator measuring improvements in student promotion rates was defined
as an "increase in the percentage of students reaching the fifth grade with no more than one grade
repetition, from a baseline of 32 percent to 50 percent." This target was reached in 1997 and greatly
surpassed by 2000, when 79.3 percent of the students reached fifth grade with one or less occurrence of
grade repetition. On the other hand, results of evaluations of student learning achievements are inclusive.
The National Student Assessment System (SAEB) shows that test scores in MG primary schools increased
significantly from 1995 to 1997, but declined in 1999. However, a general decline in scores was reported
for all Brazilian states, which raises questions about the quality of the SAEB evaluation in 1999.
More efficient student flows, measured by the rate of student promotion between first and second grade in
MG elementary schools, show that promotion rates increased from 76.6 to 93 percent between 1992 and
1998, but fell to 89.4 percent in 2001. The project target for this indicator was 95 percent. Thus, albeit
the improvements made, the full target was not reached. Repetition rates was the second indicator
measuring student flows, and the target was that grade repetition would be reduced by 5-10 percentage
points. Comparing grade repetition rates for 1992 and 2000, results show that the target was fully
achieved and surpassed: first grade repetition rates were reduced from 22 to 9 percent; second grade
repetition rates fell from 44 to 7 percent; third grade repetition rates fell from 21 to 8 percent; and fourth
grade repetition rates were reduced from 17 to 9 percent.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Improving System-Wide Management (ICR Rating: Satisfactory) (US$ 10.8 million
or 53.5 percent of the SAR estimate and 3.5 percent of total actual project cost). The aim of this
component was to improve the management information base of the education sector through establishing
an effective educational monitoring system, institutionalizing evaluation of student learning achievements at
state level, and carrying out studies of specific education policies and programs. These goals were reached.
A monitoring system consisting of basic education indicators was put in place, a state student learning
achievement system is fully operational, and the various studies intended to strengthen informnation-based
decision making were completed, albeit not all were financed by the project, as described below. The total
cost of the component resulted significantly below the SAR estimate, primarily due to savings in the student
- 4 -



learning assessment subcomponent and to the fact that only two of the 12-15 studies were financed by the
project (the balance of the studies were carried out without project financing).
(a) Establishing Education Monitoring. Improvements in data collection, information generation, and
reporting systems were carried out covering the state elementary school system. Today, the SEE/MG has
the capacity to issue a System-wide Information Report on Education Indicators (Relatorio de Indicadores
Globais - RIG) that is disseminated periodically to the schools and helps the school community to gauge its
performance in relation to all other schools in the state.
(b) Strengthening Student Assessment. The Minas Gerais Public Education Evaluation System
(SIMAVE) started in 1991, as a pioneer system in the Brazilian context. The project aimed at improving
and consolidating this system. The tests applied by SIMAVE comprise the Basic Education Evaluation
Program (PROEB) and are compatible and complementary to the national student learning assessment tests
(SAEB). The added benefit of the PROEB is that it allows for the disaggregation of the data at the school
level, which in turn permits the identification of problem schools and of corrective measures that can be
taken at the school level. The project enhanced the SIMAVE through a contract with the Federal
University of Juiz de Fora, which developed test items and assumed the management of the testing process.
The specific target for this subcomponent was the completion of three two-year testing cycles covering
approximately 900,000 students in grades 3,5,8,10 and 11. This target was surpassed, as approximately
620,000 students were tested during project implementation. A pilot test in mathematics and Portuguese
for grades 4, 8, and 11 was carried out in 1999 covering 20,000 students. In 2000, total of 600,000
students were tested in grades 4, 8, and 11 in mathematics and Portuguese. In 2001, testing covered a
sample of students in all 3,600 state schools and 760 municipal schools which joined the program
voluntarily. The main innovative feature of the SIMAVE program was the delivery of test results to
schools, with an explanation of the test rubric and the identification of areas for improvement. Positive
externalities derived from this subcomponent include the strengthening of the relationships between the
SEE/MG and the local university community, an agreement with the Government of France for exchange of
best practices in student learning achievement tests, and the development of research linkages between the
SEE/MG and universities renowned for their expertise in student learning assessment, such as Vanderbilt
and Michigan Universities in the United States.
(c) Fostering Information-Based Decision Making. The aim of this subcomponent was to assess the
effectiveness of several education policies and practices through 12-15 operations studies. Two of these
studies were carried out successfully with project funds. The first, about the number of 5th grade students
with one grade-repetition or less was carried out by the Federal University of Minas Gerais; and the
second, focused on tracking reduction of repetition rates in the state school system was completed by a
local consultant. The remaining studies were financed by the SEE/MG and carried out by research
institutions such as the Ford Foundation and the Federal University of Minas Gerais. These studies covered
the areas of school development planning, total quality management, educational monitoring, Basic
Literacy Cycle (Ciclo Basico de Alfabetizacao), and the use of information by education administrators.
Component B: Strengthening School Administration (ICR Rating: Satisfactory) (US$ 37.8 million or
79.9 percent of the SAR estimate and 12.2 percent of total actual project cost). This component
supported the SEE/MG education decentralization policy with actions designed to provide state schools
with the administrative capacity to carry out their new functions of planning, management, and enhancing
the quality of education. The specific aim of the component was to strengthen school autonomy and
accountability, through improvements in school planning, school leadership and office technology. The
goals of this component were largely achieved. By project completion, most state schools were able to
develop and carry out meaningful development plans; the school leadership was strengthened through
-5-



policy reforms providing for the election (rather than appointment) of school principals, and by in-service
training of school administrative staff; and office technology was improved throughout the provision of
computers and other equipment, software, and training in the use of the new technology throughout the
state school system. Economies in the procurement of equipment and favorable exchange rate trends
account for most of the difference between SAR cost estimates and actual costs of this component.
(a) Improving School Planning. The school development plans (PDEs), mandated by the SEE/MG in
1998, were not achieving their goal of enhancing education quality, primarily due to low levels of
participation of the school community in the planing process and insufficient resources to carry out the
proposed school-based interventions. These shortcomings were addressed by the project through the
creation of a grant program, the Program for Support of School Innovations (Programa de Apoio as
Inovacoes Escolares - PAIE), which provided additional financial resources directly to the schools, for
initiatives aimed at increasing student leaming and reducing grade-repetition rates. School proposals were
judged on a competitive basis and funded by the SEE/MG every year. The target was to approve about
2,000 grants of about R$ 4,000 each during project implementation. At project completion, a total of
2,478 grants had been awarded. Although a formal evaluation of this grant program was not carried out,
there are positive indications of its success. Schools with PAIE grants had better student leaming scores
than those without; 86 percent of the winners of state-wide school management awards were PAIE schools;
assessments made by school staff confirm that PAIE has been instrumental in increasing school autonomy
and enabling the schools to reach their teaching objectives. The PAIE program proved important in
motivating school actors and achieved high popularity. Its sustainability is ensured, as the SEE/MG has
decided to continue the program with its own resources.
(b) Strengthening School Leadership. Through in-service training for staff working in the administration
of state schools, this subcomponent was able to enhance the performance of school directors, deputy
directors, supervisors, and school council officers. This training was provided every four years, to coincide
with the term of school principals. The School Leadership Training Program (Programa de Capacitagdo
de Diretores - PROCAD) trained some 10,000 administrators in the first cycle and 12,000 in the second,
almost doubling the SAR target. An evaluation was conducted upon completion of the first training cycle
and its results were used to improve the training program, which covered school planning, basic leadership
practices, personnel and physical resources administration. In addition, a Total Quality Management
Program (TQM) in 37 schools, was introduced on a pilot basis. This program was directed to school
administrators, parents and teachers, and comprised a training course followed by seminars totalling about
80 hours of training focused on performance-based school management, complemented by technical
assistance to the participating schools provided by education experts. After the pilot was evaluated, the
goal was to expand the TQM program other schools, but the proposed expansion did not occur because the
program was discontinued due to changes in the SEE/MG administration.
(c) Providing Office Technology. This subcomponent supported the efficient allocation of resources by
providing the larger schools (those with more than 20 classrooms or more than 1,200 students) with
adequate equipment, including computers and software, telephone lines, photocopiers, and printers. The
schools were responsible for contracting training for the staff in the use of the equipment. At project
completion, the SAR targets were reached and in some cases surpassed. The equipment installed included:
4,220 computers, 3,376 printers, administrative software, and 2,376 telephone lines, benefitting a total of
844 schools as well as the central and regional offices of the SEE/MG. The only SAR target not met was
the installation of 275 copies, because the SEE/MG decided that maintenance costs for the schools would
be unduly high.
-6 -



Component C: Developing Teaching Competence (ICR Rating: Satisfactory) (US$ 58.4 million or
102.2 percent of the SAR estimate and 18.9 percent of total actual project cost). This component
intended to upgrade teachers' skills to enable them to master the basic curriculum contents and effectively
use didactic materials. Main achievements include the production and distribution of over 240,000
teacher-guides in mathematics, Portuguese, social sciences, and natural sciences; and in-service training for
about 90,863 teachers in 1998 and 86,134 teachers in 2001 covering pedagogic methods, Portuguese,
mathematics, history, geography and science. Although one subcomponent was only partially implemented
(the remaining final evaluation of the teacher training program is scheduled to be carried out by the SEE),
the overall outcome of this component was satisfactory.
(a) Enhancing Curriculum Development. This subcomponent achieved its objective of providing
elementary school teachers with teaching guides. Specialized institutions, with acknowledge expertise in
the various disciplines, were contracted to produce the guides. In total, some 130,409 guides in Portuguese
and mathematics, and 112,428 guides in history, geography and science were developed and distributed to
the teachers. The same institutions that produced the guides also trained the teachers to use them. In
addition, some 60 video programs were produced, comprising more than 12 hours of programming, to
assist teachers in the use of the guides. The only activity in this subcomponent which was planned but not
achieved, was the establishment of curriculum laboratories in the specialized institutions for the continuous
updating of the curriculum guides, because budget priority was given to the creation of accelerated classes.
In 1997, a Leaming Acceleration Program activity was introduced under this subcomponent. These
accelerated classes, targeted to help students with more than two years of age-grade gap in the first four
grades of elementary school. The aim of the accelerated classes was to help improve the performance of
these older students and constituted a pioneer initiative in the area in Brazil. In 1999, the accelerated
classes program was terminated and the students returned to regular classes.
(b) Providing in-service teacher training. The SAR target for this component was to provide
approximately 96 hours of in-service training to all the 89,000 state and municipal teachers responsible for
classroom instruction. Teacher participation in the program was voluntary and teachers received a stipend
to attend training sessions. Completion of the training program was accredited as part of the teachers'
career development program. The training program was school-based, made ample use of distance
education technology (especially videos) and was complemented by classroom technical assistance to help
teachers apply the training to their teaching context. The Teacher In-service Training Program (Programa
de Capacitacdo de Professores - PROCAP) fully achieved its intended objectives. In 1998, 90,863
teachers were trained in pedagogic methods, Portuguese and mathematics; and in 2001, 86,134 teachers
were trained in history, geography, and science. An evaluation of the training sessions, carried out in 2002,
found the program successful in modifying teacher's classroom behavior, in enhancing teaching
competencies in pedagogic planning and classroom delivery, in increasing teacher's understanding of tools
to evaluate student learning, and in fostering more interest in leaming on the part of the students. To
reinforce the benefits of the in-service training program, the SEE/MG created teacher reference centers in
the interior of the state. These centers serve as meeting places where teachers can exchange ideas and share
best practices. By project completion, a total of four such centers had been created and two more,
preexisting centers, were rehabilitated.
(c) Evaluating Education Interventions. This subcoinponent intended to support four assessments of the
relative effectiveness of the in-service teacher training program. Two evaluations of the program were
carried out, and one of them covered an assessment of changes in classroom practices. The SEE/MG and
the Bank agreed that the other studies would be financed by the regular SEE budget
- 7 -



Component D: Providing Instructional Materials (ICR Rating: Satisfactory) (US$ 187.6 million or
1543 percent of the SAR estimate and 60.6 percent of total actual project cost). This component was
designed to increase the quality and quantity of instructional materials available in the classrooms. For the
financing of textbooks, implementation was predicated in the collaboration between the SEE/MG and
federal Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educagdo e Cultura -- MEC), through the Foundation for
Student Assistance -- Fundacdo de Assistencia ao Estudante - FAE). This component achieved its
objectives: textbooks were delivery to the schools in timely manner every year, classrooms were equipped
with reading corners comprising about 35 titles each, state and municipal schools benefitted from new
school libraries, and classrooms received learning supplies and teaching kits. The observed difference
between estimated and actual costs is due to the fact that the project exceeded most of the original targets
for the supply of instructional materials.
(a) Delivering Textbooks. The SAR target for the procurement and distribution of textbooks was
approximately 32.3 million volumes, including 13 million for grades I and 2; 9.5 million for grades 3 and
4; and 9.8 million for grades 5,6,7 and 8. These textbooks included Portuguese, mathematics, social
sciences and natural sciences. Textbook financing was provided through a state-federal partnership. In
1995, the SEE/MG created its own textbook program but discontinued it in 2000, given the efficient
operation of the National Textbook Program. During project implementation, between 8 and 10 million
textbooks were distributed to the state and municipal schools every year, greatly surpassing the SAR target.
(b) Setting Up Reading Corners and School Libraries. The project surpassed its original goal of creating
28,000 classroom reading comers. In fact, reading comers consisting of about 35 fiction and nonfiction
titles, were installed in all classrooms serving grades I through 4. A total of 5,771 state schools and 9,136
municipal schools benefitted from the program, or almost 60,000 classrooms. In addition, the 3,910
schools with grades fifth through eighth received some 3.5 million books to establish small libraries. To
ensure the benefits of this program, workshops were organized to orient teachers in the use of classroom
literature and students were motivated to read about one book per week.
(c) Supplying Teaching Kits. This subcomponent financed the procurement and distribution of classroom
supplies and teaching kits, consisting of mathematical games, alphabet blocks, didactic puzzles, charts,
dictionaries, atlases, maps and related supplies. All state elementary schools received such supplies. The
SEE/MG recommended items appropriate for each grade, but each school was responsible for selecting the
didactic kits they preferred and funds were transferred to the schools for the procurement of these kits in the
first year (1995). A total of 28,000 classrooms serving grades I through 4 benefitted from this program.
The original intent was to provide, in subsequent project years, 15 percent of the original teaching kits'
budget to enable schools to replace missing or damaged items, but this plan was not carried out due to
budget constraints. Also, the original plan to pilot science kits for grades 5 through 8 was not carried out,
for the same reason.
Component E: Upgrading Facility Management (ICR Rating: Satisfactory) (US$ 6.7 million or 13.4
percent of the SAR estimate and 2.2 percent of total actual project cost). As noted in Section 3.4, the
bulk of the planned investment in this component was intended for the construction of new classrooms to
eliminate overcrowding in state elementary schools. Because the state has already allocated funds from its
regular budget to this activity, the SEE/MG and the Bank agreed not to use project funds for this purpose.
Bank financing for Facility Management concentrated on the program of school infrastructure
improvements in rural areas.  This program involving "nucleus schools" was intended to improve
education facilities in the poorest rural areas of the state by clustering isolated classrooms into new
four-classroom schools that would function as the nucleus or center for the delivery of elementary
education services. Finally, the activities contemplated to rationalize facility utilization (subcomponent
- 8 -



(b)), which consisted in improved school mapping, better projections of demand for school places, and
definition of standards for facility utilization, were carried out with funds from the regular SEE/MG budget
and not with project funds. This component achieved fully its central objective of improving school
infrastructure and facility utilization. The project funds not utilized for infrastructure were reallocated to
finance additional instructional materials.
(a) Adding Classrooms. With state funds, the SEE/MG built sufficient new classrooms to eliminate the
overcrowding in state schools, which formerly affected about 100,000 students who attended schools that
operated in three shifts, including an evening shift. With the infrastructure program completed by the
SEE/MG during project implementation, all but nine elementary schools are currently operating in with a
maximum of two daytime shifts.
(b) Rationalizing Facility Utilization. This subcomponent intended to make more efficient the use of
education infrastructure through the use of improved planning tools. Project funds were not used to
implement this subcomponent, because the planned improvements in school mapping, projections of
demand for school places, and definition of standards for facility utilization, were provided by the regular
SEE/MG budget.
(c) Development of "Nucleus" Rural Schools. This subcomponent was very successfuil in improving
educational facilities in the poorest rural areas of the state. The innovative idea of clustering isolated
classrooms, which operated under precarious conditions, into better-equipped central schools with modem
facilities and four classrooms, greatly improved the education opportunities for the poorest students. The
target of building 51 "nucleus" schools was fully achieved. By project completion, the 51 new schools
were operating offering grades I through 8 in the Northem region of the state, where traditionally
elementary education services did not exceed four grades.
F. Project Management (ICR Rating: Satisfactory) (US$8.2 million or 182.2 percent of the SAR
estimate and 2.6 percent of total actual project cost).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic analysis of the project was not carried out at appraisal. Because of that, an ex-post analysis
was not prepared for the ICR. Undoubtedly however, the successful outcomes of the project in increasing
elementary school completion rates and test scores, will have an important poverty reduction and fiscal
impact, with the expected time lag, as present day students shall enter the labor market in the future with
better earnings prospects. In addition, the more efficient use of education infrastructure, benefits the sector
as a whole, as it releases resources for investments in the improvement of the quality of education through
better trained teachers and improved didactic materials.
4.4 Financial rate ofJreturn:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project contributed to the institutional development of SEE/MG in several ways. The project was
planned and implemented within the SEE/MG and by SEE/MG personnel, rather than through a separate
parallel agency, ensuring the continued benefit of strengthened institutional capacity after project
completion. Through project implementation, the SEE/MG gained experience in managing a large project
-9-



that required the coordination of diverse stakeholders in the public education system. The institution also
leamed how to implement a project with intemational financing and is now fully capable of carrying out
procurement and contracting, preparing terms of reference for consultants, producing supervision reports
and program evaluations. Technically, the SEE/MG gained substantial experience in the use of distance
education programs as a result of the project. SEE/MG personnel report that many of these practices and
skills have been adopted by other departments of SEE/MG not directly involved in the project. Most
importantly, the skills acquired during project implementation have been employed in developing new
programs. as for example, in the case of in-service teacher training. The success of the PROCAP
facilitated the development of VEREDAS, a program to assist elementary teachers in earning higher
education degrees. Interviews by the ICR mission with project personnel and representatives of local
universities, indicate that the project improved communication and coordination between the SEE/MG and
higher education institutions, as well as regional secretariats of education and representatives of municipal
school systems in the state. The cooperation of all of these institutions was vital in the implementation of
several of the project's most successful initiatives, such as SIMAVE and PROCAP. The institutional
linkages established during project implementation and the expertise gained by the SEE/MG have proved
instrumental in the continuation of several project activities, as discussed in Section 6 below.
The institutional impact of the project was less satisfactory with respect to financial management. The
provision of counterpart funds was not always timely and there were problems in reconciling the project
accounts between SEE/MG and Bank records. The difficulties encountered in the financial management of
the project were mainly due to factors external to the project, including a moratorium declared by the state
on the payment of all debt to the federal government, combined with extreme volatility of the exchange rate
and a general weakening of Brazil's public finances.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The devaluation of the Brazilian currency during the 1995-2001 period, had positive and negative effects
on project implementation. On the one hand, it meant greater purchasing power for the Loan funds, which
allowed for the completion of some project activities below the original cost estimate. For example, the
strengthening dollar allowed for a new round of SIMAVE assessments and greater dissemination of the
results, the financing of an additional 300 PAIEs, the completion of the PROCAD subcomponent 69
percent under budget, and the purchase of additional computer equipment and software to enable the
development of an MIS (Management Information System). On the other hand, currency fluctuations
complicated the reconciliation of loan accounts between the Borrower and Bank records. Currency
devaluation also contributed to difficulties for the SEE/MG to fully meet its counterpart funding
obligations in 1998.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In 1999 the government of Minas Gerais declared a moratorium on all debt payments to the federal
government, including external debt associated with the Bank loan supporting the project. This lead the
federal government to halt all financial transfers to the state, including education funds related to the
project. At that time, the federal government also recommend to the Bank to halt disbursements on loan
3733-BR to the state. This problem had a serious impact on the project, as counterpart funds were withheld
for a period of about six months and project activities were financed exclusively from the project's Special
Account.
-10-



Political changes in the State Administration lead to the replacement of the director of the UCP with some
loss in institutional capacity. Political uncertainty with respect to the project contributed to the
postponement of project closure, with delays in the completion of some of the most complex project
components, such as the establishment of SIMAVE, PROCAP and PROCAD, the installation of teacher
reference centers, and the implementation of the third stage of PAlE. The delays that occurred in the
implementation of these components, did not compromise the eventual attainment of the project objectives.
However, less problems would have occurred if the SEE/MG had maintained the high-level Advisory
Committee, originally planned to serve as an agent for resolving inter-agency coordination problems and
guardian of project objectives through administrative changes in the SEE/MG.
Notwithstanding these shortcomings, the performance of the SEE/MG was commendable in its
participation in the design, implementation, and in the successful completion of the project. The SEE/MG
ensured the development and operation of a strong project coordinating unit and supported the development
of its institutional capacity by maintaining most of its team intact throughout project implementation. The
SEE/MG also enacted important education reforms, generally supported the project objectives and
programs, and introduced pioneer strategic programs under the project, such as educational
decentralization and school autonomy, which became examples of good practices for other Brazilian states.
This project has also had a strong impact on education policies outside Brazil. Many policies developed in
Latin America regarding the use of school councils in school management, community participation in the
selection of school principals, and mechanisms for the direct transfer of resources to schools have had
origins in this Minas Gerais experience.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A key factor in the successful completion of the project was the maintenance of the core UCP team
throughout project implementation. The lack of technical staff turnover ensured continuity of project
activities even under state administrative changes (1999) and guaranteed an institutional memory that bodes
well for the sustainability of the project benefits.
Less successful aspects of the performance of the project executing agency include the incomplete
implementation of the monitoring subcomponent and less than efficient performance of the SEE/MG
procurement committee, while it was gaining experience during the initial stages of project implementation.
This "leaming-course" resulted in delays in the delivery of project goods and services.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total actual cost of the project is estimated at US$ 309.6 or 102.5 percent of the SAR estimate.
Disbursements from Loan 3733-BR totalled US$ 147.1 million and US$ 2,904 thousand were cancelled at
loan closing in June 28, 2002. The last disbursement was made in November 13, 2002. By the end of
calendar year 1999, the fourth year of project implementation, 88.6 percent of the loan amount had been
disbursed and most of the project activities were completed. It is conceivable that all project activities
could have been completed by the original closing date (06/38/00) if external financial difficulties of the
Borrower had not adversely affected project implementation. The main variations between estimated and
actual costs of project components, are observed in the infrastructure component (which under spend the
original budget by 86.4 percent), and in the instructional materials component (which exceeded appraisal
estimates by over 100 percent). These differences can be justified based on the fact that the state had
already allocated funds from its regular budget to cover most infrastructure investments planned for the
project, and therefore a decision was reached not to use project funds for this purpose. The additional funds
allocated to instructional materials allowed the financing of textbooks when federal contributions for this
- 11 -



purpose were withheld, and permitted the quantitative and qualitative expansion of didactic materials
provided to schools.
The financial crisis faced by Minas Gerais state in the late 1990s, prompted a moratorium on the state's
federal debt. This fact, combined with the devaluation of the Brazilian Real, made the financial
management of the project problematic. A report from a financial Bank mission in May 2002, indicates
that between June and December of 1998 -- when the state was already experiencing severe financial
problems, counterpart funds were not provided and project activities were fully financed from the Special
Account. The volatility of the exchange rate posed problems for the reconciliation between SEE/MG and
Bank project accounts, and accounting gaps of as much as US$ 6 million were recorded at times.
Compounding the problem, in 1998 the state modified its accounting system, merging all revenue sources,
including project loan funds. This measure made the monitoring of project accounts very difficult during
the 1999-2000 period, as the project financial staff had to estimated the flow of funds rather than base its
accounts on actual transaction records. The delays and uncertainties associated with these financial
management problems explain in large part the need to extend the project loan closing date by three years.
By the loan closing date, these difficulties had been resolved and the state government had met its
counterpart fund obligations.
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
(ICR Rating: Likely). The overall project objective to improve educational attainment in the State of
Minas Gerais through the implementation of five components is likely to be sustained, considering that
three of these components will continue to be implemented by the SEE/MG after project completion. The
project goal of "Improving System-wide Management" (Component A) is sustainable, given that the
SIMAVE system for producing school-level student achievement data has gained priority status in the
SEE/MG. SIMAVE is presently supported by state legislation and the state has allocated adequate
budgetary resources to ensure the continuation of the program. The utilization of the student learning
assessments is ensured through continuous staff and teacher training in the use of SIMAVE data, so that
teachers understand test results and are able use them  for improving classroom practice.  The
"Strengthening School Administration" (Component B) is also likely to be sustainable, since both
PROCAD and PAIE continue to be supported by SEE/MG and the elections of school principals has now
became an irreversible achievement of the state education system. The SEE/MG instituted a permanent
program to train school administrators, and has continued to support school-based initiatives through the
PAIE as indicated by actual budgets following project completion. The "Development of Teaching
Competence" (Component C) is also likely to continue. The program is now extended to provide 15,000
elementary teachers with the opportunity for obtaining university degrees, which became mandatory in
Brazil since the issuance of the 1996 Basic Education Law (LDB). This program is know as VEREDAS
and uses the same distance education network established for PROCAP. The likely sustainability of
project benefits is also predicated upon the close relationships established between the SEE/MG, the local
universities, and the regional secretariats of education, as for example the partnership established between
the SEE/MG and the Federal University of Juiz de Fora in collaboration with 20 other universities
throughout the state. The collaboration between these institutions is an important factor supporting the
attaimnent of the project objectives over time. Finally, a fourth component "Providing Instructional
Materials" (Component D) has assured continuity of textbooks delivery through federal financing.
- 12-



Although the main benefits of the project are likely to be sustainable, some of the gains could be threatened
by changes in key personnel during political transitions as well as by tight budget constraints such as the
one presently faced by the government. Alternative sources of financing are being sought, for instance, for
the SIMAVE which is now expanding to municipal schools on a partial charge-back basis. In hindsight,
more dissemination of project objectives and results during implementation could have assured greater
likelihood of public support for sustained budgets for project-initiated programs during fiscal fluctuations.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Several of the most successful components of the project have been integrated into the regular program of
the SEE/MG. Since the core UCP team was recruited intemally, many of its members are likely to continue
to work at the Secretariat. SIMAVE is supported by state legislation and discussions are currently under
way to promote the combination of state and federal learning assessment systems (SIMAVE and SAEB).
PALE has secured funding from the SEE/MG budget, and the VEREDAS teacher-accreditation program
builds upon the objectives and methods developed for PROCAP and maintains the objectives of the
program.
To support the transition arrangements and further ensure the sustainability of project benefits, it is
important that the SSE/MG uses the SIMAVE and complementary monitoring and evaluation instruments,
to continuously ascertain whether or not the benefits of the project are being sustained. The positive
relationship established between the state of Minas Gerais and the Bank in the education sector, suggests
that a follow-on project might be developed. Some of the priorities identified for a follow-on operation
include: improvements in secondary education and in the quality of instruction for adolescents and adults;
reform of special education to better serve students with special needs; growth and consolidation of the
culture of evaluation begun with SIMAVE; and increased coverage and quality of education services in the
regions of the state with the greatest concentrations of poverty.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
(ICR Rating: Satisfactory) The Bank lending performance is considered satisfactory given strong
borrower ownership, efficient preparation process, and proper use of lessons learned in the design of the
project. The Bank team that identified the project in 1992 was able to build excellent relationships the with
local counterparts, and that in turn resulted in strong government commitment for the project. Project
preparation progressed quickly and smoothly, and the appraisal was completed one year after the
identification mission. As one of the Bank's first education projects in Brazil to be contracted directly with
a state government, Pr6-Qualidade was instrumental in implementing the Bank's strategy of developing
local capacity and supporting educational innovations at the state level. Project design succeeded in making
the best use of lessons learned from prior projects. Among other elements of the design, it is noteworthy
that a good balance between policy reforms and investments was achieved, as in the case of Monhangara
Project (Ln. 2412-BR); adequate educational software was provided, following the lessons of the
EDURURAL (Ln. 1867-BR); and a strong project coordination unit was created based on the experience
of several projects in Brazil and other countries.
- 13 -



7.2 Supervision:
(ICR Rating: Satisfactory). The Bank dedicated considerable attention to the supervision of the project
and was prompt in meeting the project needs, especially when agreeing to accept retroactive counterpart
financing during the period of financial crisis faced by the Borrower, so as not to compromise project
implementation. The proximity and responsiveness of the Bank office in Brasilia was also instrumental in
assisting project implementation, since many problems were resolved quickly and effectively with the help
of Bank field staff.  Bank technical assistance through MACs (Continuous Learning Framework
workshops) was praised by project staff, who found the information delivered useful, and the opportunities
to exchange ideas most welcome. Procurement and contracting was a key area in which Bank technical
assistance produced the most lasting benefits. Bank's technical assistance helped institute improved
procurement practices in the PCU and in the SEE/MG as a whole. Project personnel reported that the
Bank's role in monitoring procurement was very helpful, and contributed to the use by the entire state
administration of some procurement mechanisms that were not utilized before, such as local shopping. On
the other hand, government officials argue that, on occasions in the early implementation of the project, the
insistence by the Bank team on international procurement for services was too cumbersome relative to
possible pricing and quality gains.
One shortcoming of Bank performance during supervision relates to financial management. In retrospect,
the Bank could have supervised more closely the state government's decision to merge income sources in
1998. Also, the Bank could have provided greater assistance at the beginning of the debt moratorium
declared by the Borrower and during the period when counterpart funds were not provided for the project.
More intensive monitoring of the project finances might have reduced the accounting discrepancies found
between SEE/MG and Bank records during these difficult periods.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
(ICR Rating:   Satisfactory).  Overall Bank performance is considered successful although some
shortcomings are noted. First, the scope of the project may have been excessively large and complex in
relation to the capacity of the implementing agency. Second, despite a generally positive relationship
between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank did not adequately monitor changing events during critical
moments in the life of the project; particularly in the area of financial management the Bank could have
been more proactive.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
(ICR Rating:   Satisfactory).  During project preparation, the Borrower participated in extensive
discussions of the project concept and collaborated fully with the Bank team in defining the project
objectives and activities, through the SEE/MG. The SEE/MG staff who participated in the preparation
process was maintained as the team responsible for project implementation, which proved an important
element in the success of the project. As an example of the constructive participation of the Borrower in
project preparation, the original teacher training component design, that included four different training
strategies to permit comparison of their relative merits, was simplified by the SEE/MG into a single
strategy to avoid divisions and disagreements among teachers and trainers that were likely to occur if a
four-strategy design was used.
- 14 -



7.5 Government implementation performance:
(ICR Rating: Satisfactory). Although the Government of the State of Minas Gerais created serious
difficulties for the project in two instances - in 1998 when it merged all sources of revenue into a single
account, and in 1999 when it declared a moratorium on its federal debt which paralyzed several project
activities -- outside these two instances, the Borrower was generally supportive of the project and its
underlying policy framework. The rating is justified in particular, because the Borrower fully supported
the educational policies and program innovations that inspired the development of the project in the first
place.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
(ICR Rating: Satisfactory). In spite of start-up problems due to inexperience with externally financed
projects and lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, the UCP improved substantially and consistently
during project implementation and was able to bring the project to successful completion. In October,
2001, a Bank ex-post review of procurement and consultant contracts, showed that Bank Guidelines had
been systematically followed and that procurement files were in excellent order. In terns of financial
management, the difficulties encountered by the project were outside the control of the implementing
agency. That same Bank mission reported that the UCP responded quickly and accurately to requests for
information, and contributed fully to the final reconciliation of the project accounts.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
(ICR Rating: Satisfactory). Throughout the life of the project, the Government of Minas Gerais
demonstrated great support for project objectives through budget support as well as through the
institutionalization of project activities. The UCP collaborated well and worked professionally with the
SEE/MG and the Bank in leading the project to successful completion. Most of the UCP team continues to
work at the SEE/MG, which consolidates the institutional capacity of the Secretariat built during project
implementation and improves the likelihood of sustainability of project benefits.
8. Lessons Learned
Avoid separate implementation arrangements. The project was carried out through the existing offices of
the SEE/MG, rather than through a parallel structure. This arrangement proved beneficial because it
promoted the development of institutional memory and allowed a relatively small in-house PCU to perform
efficiently the role of project coordinator unit. The long-term benefits of developing institutional capacity
out-weighted the initial problems and delays associated with not having a large separate PCU structure.
The experience also shows that having a core team of qualified permanent staff working throughout project
implementation and beyond, greatly strengthens the institutional capacity of the Borrower. The fact that
extemal consultants were used in some very specialized areas suggests that more training of the permanent
team would have helped internalize the contribution of external consultants.
Provide for strong monitoring and evaluation systems. Because the project's monitoring and evaluation
system was not fully irnplemented, it is difficult to link project activities precisely to the observed
improvements in the quality of education in the state. The lack of pertinent data for analysis misses an
opportunity for gathering support from education authorities and civil society.  To guarantee the
development of strong monitoring and evaluation systems in future projects, project planners may consider
building in-house technical capacity through training and establishing ample dissemination mechanisms to
build up public support for evaluation.
-15 -



The scope of the project should match the capacity of the implementing agency. Pr6-Qualidade was a
large and complex project and its design may have exceeded the initial capacity of the implementing
agency. One reason why such complex design was chosen, was the fact that the SEE/MG aimed to attack
various fronts while addressing the challenge of improving elementary education in the state. If project
design were to be simpler and focused on one or two main goals,-instead of attempting to reform many
areas-project implementation may have proceeded more smoothly. Yet most of the project components
were designed to support reforms that had already been enacted by the SEE/MG, and permitted the
Secretariat to carry out these reforms on a much larger scope in a shorter length of time.
Plan for political uncertainty. Despite several mitigating measures taken by the Bank and the Borrower,
the external shocks associated with political change at times slowed down and even paralyzed project
implementation. This is not an easy problem to solve and it is clearly difficult to determine what are the
best precautionary actions to be. However, political considerations are an essential part of project planning
and deserve careful attention in project identification and preparation, as well as appropriate responses
during project implementation. Continuous and wide public dissemination of project objectives and gains
might provide a partial insulation from political and budgetary fluctuations.
Integrate project financial management and accounting. The attempt at establishing a separate financial
management system for projects is frequently frustrated in practice. Even though a separate project
account is essential, it is advisable that future projects consider the integration of the project financial
management system into the regular accounting system of the implementing agency. The records provided
by the regular accounting system can be used to monitor the special account set up for the project, and
,improve the likelihood of having accurate financial records throughout project implementation. Of special
importance in countries with volatile exchange rates, is to agree on a single currently conversion rate date,
that would be used by the Borrower and the Bank, in order to avoid accounts reconciliation problems.
Integrate project financial management and accounting. The attempt at establishing a separate financial
management system for projects is frequently frustrated in practice. Even though a separate project
account is essential, it is advisable that future projects consider the integration of the project financial
management system into the regular accounting system of the implementing agency. The records provided
by the regular accounting system can be used to monitor the special account set up for the project, and
improve the likelihood of having accurate financial records throughout project implementation. Of special
importance in countries with volatile exchange rates, is that the borrower applies the same exchange rates
within its accounting records as are applicable for disbursement applications (e.g. in the case of the Special
Account, to apply the exchange rate considered at the date when funds were withdrawn from the account),
in order to avoid accounts reconciliation problems.
Capitalize on the benefits of education decentralization. Pr6-Qualidade was the first state-level
education project supported by the Bank in Brazil. Project experience confrmed the wisdom of this
approach. Sub-national projects afford great opportunities to test education innovations and to understand
in detail the workings of the education system and how best they can be changed and improved. State-level
projects also afford the added opportunity of having an impact on the delivery of basic education services
by municipalities, which are increasingly responsible for providing elementary education in Brazil.
Guarantee systematic student learning assessments. The fact that Brazil has developed a technically
sophisticated and efficient national student assessment system is a great asset. However, until the results of
such assessments are utilized in improving teaching and learning, the objective of the assessments is not
really reached. The Minas Gerais experience indicates that state level student learning assessment systems
- 16-



can greatly enhance the national system, by ensuring that results are representative at the school level, and
by providing for technical assistance and training to teachers to improve their capacity to utilize test
results. A further development, also better achieved at state and local levels, is to have test results amply
disseminated to the civil society in general, as a means to promote public support for quality education.
Provide incentives for school autonomy. Fostering school autonomy and accountability is amply
recognized as a powerful instrument to improve the quality of education. However, incentives need to be
put in place that motivate all relevant actors to participate in reaching the common goal. The creation of
the Support Program for School Innovation (PAIE) in Minas Gerais, proved a cost effective mechanism to
promote the autonomous and accountable management of schools by the school community, through the
provision of competitive funding for the best proposals to make changes in the school organization and
teaching practices, leading to lower repetition rates and improved student test scores.
Improve teaching competence on a continuous basis. Teachers are central to the teaching/learning
process and their skills need to be upgraded on a continuous basis. This poses the challenge of high cost of
presential training for a very large group of teachers, and the difficulty of alining training contents with
classroom behavioral changes. The experience of Minas Gerais with PROCAP and VEREDAS is
promising, as it shows that partnerships between education authorities and universities can improve the
quality of in-service training for teachers, that when teacher training is school-based it is more effective
than isolated course fornats, and that technical assistance following training sessions can consolidate
results in terms of changes in classroom behavior. The experience also shows that appropriate use of
distance-leaming technologies can vastly improve the efficiency of in-service teacher training services and
reduce costs.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower contributed with a report assessing project implementation from its perspective. The report
is avalaible in the project file. The following paragraphs are a summary of the Borrower's report.
1. Introduction
The Basic Education Quality Improvement Project -- Pro-Qualidade, started in the State of Minas Gerais in
1995. The central objective of the project was to improve the performance of the state education system by
achieving significant increased in student learning and completion rates at elementary school. To achieve
this goal, the project supported activities to: (a) provide central and regional education managers with
information-based decision making tools; (b) help school principals take on their new roles as leaders and
managers of the schools in a more decentralized environment; (c) increase the-access to training for teachers;
(d) distribute instructional materials, especially textbooks, to all public school students; (e) upgrade the
management of school facilities to ensure equitable access for students and to encourage the rational use of
school space. The project cost was estimated at US$ 302 million, US$150 million financed by the Bank and
US$ 152 million financed by the Minas Gerais State Government.
The project was implemented during the 1995-2002 period. The actual cost of the project was US$ 309.6
million, exceeding the original estimate by 2.5 percent. The Bank contribution to project financing was US$
147.1 million and US$ 2,904 thousand was cancelled at the closing of loan account.
- 17 -



2. The Status of the Education System in Minas Gerais
When the Pro-Qualidade project was designed, not more than 2.4 percent of elementary school students
graduated from the 8th grade without at least one repetition, and as many as 40 percent required 11 years to
complete the eight years of elementary school. Classroom teachers had very few training opportunities.
Apart from standard textbooks, schools did not have other reading materials and teaching aids.
Communications between schools and the central state administration was poor. Most schools lacked
appropriate equipment such as computers, fax machines and even telephones. As many as 2000 schools
were ill equipped to deliver quality education services.
3. Main Results of the Project
The project achieved most of its central objectives. The goal of increasing the number of students that were
able to reach the 5th grade with no more than one grade-repetition was fully met. In 1992 only 32 percent
of the students were able to do that, while in 200 as many 79.3 percent of the students reached the fifth
grade with one or no repetition. Similarly, the goal of improving student learning in elementary school was
largely achieved. The National Assessment System (SAEB), which began in 1995, shows that the trend in
student learning achievements in Minas Gerais is improving along with similar trends in the region and in
the country. More efficient student flows, as measured by grade promotion, were also fully achieved. In
1998 when the project midterm review was carried out, promotion from grade one to grade two had
improved from 76 percent (1992) to 93 percent, and in 2001 the promotion rate was 89.4 percent.
The success of the project in meeting its objectives was also measured by extemal evaluations contracted by
the SEE/MG. A survey of state school principals and teachers, administrative and technical staff shows
that 94.3 percent of school respondents judge the project as having improved the quality of elementary
education in the state. Responses from the central administrative staff were 82.8 percent positive, and from
the technical staff 66.7 percent positive.
The training opportunities afforded to teachers by the project is worth highlighting. Approximately 90,000
teachers and 12,000 principals from the state school system received training through the PROCAP
program. And the impact of this training was seen in terms of improved teaching classroom practices.
Other very successful initiatives of the project include the PAIE and the SIMAVE. The PAIE supported
innovative initiatives by the schools through grants. A total of 2,478 grants were awarded and program
evaluation shows that the participating schools made significant improvements. The SIMAVE lead to the
consolidation and improvement of the public education evaluation program and was able to test over
600,000 public elementary school students during project implementation. These tests were analyzed to
pinpoint the learning difficulties faced by the students and to guide teacher on how to help students
overcome these difficulties.
With respect to the facilities for elementary education, the project helped ensure that basic standards were
met in all school, including provision of didactic materials and improvements to physical facilities and
equipment. Some 800 large schools with more than 30 classrooms were provided with computers and
software. The regional education offices were also adequately equipped and currently all SEE/MG
education administration offices are linked by a computer network which greatly facilitates communications
and the accurate transmittal of data across the system.
- 18-



4. Project Impact on Institutional Development
Through project implementation, the SEE/MG acquire valuable experience in the execution of a large
project involving schools, manager, and teachers statewide. The SEE/MG also gained know-how on the use
of distance education technology, established productive relations with universities across the state,
developed a communications networks which perrnits the linking all schools in the state and municipal
education systems. The experience gained in managing an intemationally financed project allowed the
SEE/MG to master document preparation and negotiations, both valuable to the institution.
5. Major Factors Affecting the Implementation of the Project
The positive outcomes of the project are related to key factors of project design and implementation
including: (a) the creation of a project coordination unit reporting directly to the State Secretary of
Education; (b) the maintenance of the core project team from preparation through project completion; (c) the
clear definition of responsibilities amongst the various units of the SEE/MG; (d) the State's education
decentralization policy and support for school autonomy; (e) the presence of a Bank office in Brasilia; (f)
the constant dialogue with the Intemational Affairs Secretariat (SEAIN) of the Federal Government; and (f)
the flexibility with which the Bank responded to the needs of the project and made its staff available to
discuss and help solve problems as they arose.
6. Lessons Learned
Although the State Administration has changed, it is possible for the project to continue after Bank
financing has ended. This is possible because the implementation of the project help generate a strong
commitment among the staff towards the goals of the project, and the management made the political
decision of supporting many project interventions because it is convinced that it services the education needs
of the State. Thus, although three Govemors and four State Secretaries of Education -- from different
parties -- were in power since the project began to be prepared, there is a sustained commitment to continue
the most successful project activities.
7. Conclusions
Education indicators show significant progress in the public education system of Minas Gerais during the
last seven years.  To achieve these improvements several technical actions, policy reforms, and
infrastructure investments were required. Without finamcing from the Bank many of these actions could not
have been carried out. However, it is important to note that the education problems of the State have not all
been solved. The large size of the system (14,470 school, 204,404 teachers and 4.7 million students) make
up a system that is not only very large but also complex. Thus, in order to sustain the gains of the last
decade it is important to continue the quality improvement actions launched by the project.
(7) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable.
-19-



10. Additional Information
Additional information is available in the project file.
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
i -:,::Indicaieor >'    i ' '-   .'. 'Projected'in'SAR     .    Actual/Latest Estimate.
1. Primary Performance Indicator: Increase the - Increase from 32 percent in 1992  - Achieved: 79.3 percent in
number of students reaching grade 5 with no  to 50 percent in 2001    2001
more than one repetition.
2. Secondary Performance Indicator: Increase  - Increase student learning  - Achieved: test scores
student learning consistently over the project                        improved in 1997 though not
period.                                                               maintained at same level in
1999. Overall performance
shows a net improvement.
3. Secondary Performance Indicator: Increase  - Increase from 77 percent in 1992 - Partially achieved: 93
student promotion between grades I and 2.  to 95 percent by project's midterm percent in 1998 and 89.4
review                        percent in 2001.
4. Secondary Performance Indicator: Decrease  - Decrease by 5 to 10 percent  - Achieved: repetition rates
repetition rates in the lower primary grades.                          were reduced from 22 to 9
percent in first grade, from
44 to 7 percent in second
grade, from 21 to 8 percent
in third grade, and from 17
to 9 percent in fourth
.______________________________ . ____________ I grade.
Output Indicators:
;. .'. -   ' Llndiator '-.                       Projected iu SAiR .'. .-   Actuail/latest Estimate
1. Improving System-Wide Management
a Reforming Education Monitoring           - Monitoring System Created    - Partially achieved with
basic education indicators
periodically reported in the
RIG.
b  Strengthening Student Assessment        - Student Assessment Created   - Achieved and fully
implemented with 620,00
students tested.
c. Fostering Information Based Decision    - Contracting of 12-15 studies  -Partially achieved with two
Making                                                                 studies completed with
project funds; the other
studies were completed
with other sources of funds.
-21 -



2. Strengthening School Administration
a. Improving School Planning             - Creation of PDE Manual     - Achieved.
- Establishment of School    - Partially achieved.
Development Process
- Implementation of 2000 School  - Achieved: 2,478 PAIE
Innovation Support Program  grants were awarded.
(PAIE)
b. Strengthening School Leadership       - Training and Assistance for  - Achieved: 22,000 school
12,000 Administrators       administrators were trained.
- Establishment of TQM in about - Pilot implemented in 37
1,000 Schools               schools but not expanded.
c. Providing Office Technology           - Equip large schools with    -Substantially achieved: 844
hardware and software       schools were fully
(computers, telephones, copiers, equipped.
etc.)
3. Developing Teaching Competence
a. Enhancing Curriculum Development      - Development of curriculum   - Achieved
guides in four subjects
al.(Revised Subcomponent) Implementing   - Correction of age-grade     - Substantially achieved,
PAA-Accelerated Leaming Program         distortion for 75,000 students in benefiting 65,624 students.
grades 1-4
b. Providing In-Service Teacher Training  - Training for 89,000 Teachers in - Achieved: 90,863
grades 1-4                  teachers were trained in
1998 and 86,134 teachers
were trained in 2001.
c. Evaluating Educational Interventions  - Contracting of 4 studies to assess - Two evaluations of the
effectiveness of Teacher Training teacher training program
were made; agreement was
reached that special studies
would be financed by the
regular SEE/MG budget.
4. Providing Instructional Materials
a. Delivering Textbooks                  - Creation of state textbook  - Achieved and reintegrated
program                     into the National Textbook
Program. 8 to 10 million
textbooks were delivered
to schools each year.
b. Establishment of Reading Comers and   - Equip 28,000 grade 1-4      - Achieved: 5,771 state
School Libraries                        classrooms with reading comers schools and 3,910
municipal schools
benefited, or a total of
about 60,000 classrooms.
- Equip 4,000 schools offering  - Substantially achieved
grade 5-8 with libraries    (3,910 schools)
c. Supplying Teaching Kits               - Provide teaching kits and other  - Partially achieved: 28,000
classroom supplies to all state  classrooms were supplied
primary schools.            with teaching kits.
-22 -



5. Upgrading Facility Management
a. Adding Classrooms                      - Construction of 1500 new     - Not Implemented with
classrooms                   project funds; financed by
the regular SEE/MG
budget.
b. Rationalizing Facility Utilization     - Train State Administrators in  - Not Implemented with
Facility Management          project funds, financed by
the regular SEE/MG
budget.
c. (Additional Subcomponent) Development of  - Constiuct 51 "Nucleus" Schools - Achieved: 51 nucleus
"Nucleus" Schools in Rural Areas                                      schools are operating in
rural areas offering grades
I through 8 of elementary
education.
-23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
2.a Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent):
~~ ~~c$uat/Latest'. '~~~~~~~~_Rercentage% of
Pro.t^l>g' ^>:,#.3."%;-.1:  - .~~~:;i;. Ji2.i i!- w*E  te.r:+ ;bEsme Es insppraisal.
1.Improving System-Wide Management                        21.5           10.8             50.3
a. Reforming Education Monitoring                        1.3            1.7            130.8
b. Strengthening Student Assessment                     18.8            9.1             48.4
c. Fostering Infornation-Based Decision Making           1.4            0.0              0.7
2. Strengthening School Administration                    47.3           37.8             79.9
a. Improving School Planning                            10.1            7.9             78.2
b. Strengthening School Leadership                      23.9           24.8            103.8
c. Providing Office Technology                          13.3            5.1             38.3
3. Developing Teaching Competence                         57.2           58.4            102.2
a. Enhancing Curriculum Development                      8.7            6.7             77.0
b. Providing In-Service Teacher Training                45.6           51.7             113.4
c. Evaluating Education Interventions                    2.9           0.03               1.0
4. Providing Instructional Materials                     121.6          187.6            154.3
a. Delivering Textbooks                                 53.7           113.0           210.4
b. Setting Up Reading Corners and School Libraries      37.2            52.4            140.9
c. Supplying Teaching Kits                              30.7            22.2            72.3
5. Upgrading Facility Management                          49.9            6.7             13.4
a. Adding Classroom                                     49.4             1.8              3.6
b. Rationalizing Facility Utilization                    0.5             0.0              0.0
c. Development of "Nucleus" Schools in Rural Areas       0.0             4.9              na
6. Project Management                                      4.5            8.2             182.2
Total Project Costs                                      302.0          309.6            102.5
- 24 -



2.b Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent):
E~~pendItt(re~~~ '~~4pj,~~laFE  ________s_s__m_e____
______________  ____  _  _               ___________    _     i    ^l - C IB;  .j tH er',  . -  N BF.  'T oil  -
Works                 24.0   23.9         47.9                            6.3            6.3
[6.0]  [6.0]      [12.0]                           [4.2]          [4.2]
Goods           36.7  12.7  59.9   50.2  159.5              1.9   6.1    92.0    114.6  214.6
[28.1] [8.1] [43.3]  [0.0]  [79.5]         [1.4]  [5.2]  [68.9]  [0.0]  [75.5]
Services                    88.6         88.6                    0.1     85.1    2.3    87.5
[58.5]       [58.5]                  [0.1]   [67.2]  [0.0]  [67.3]
Operational
Costs                              6.0    6.0                             0.3     0.9    1.2
[0.0]  [0.0]                          [0.1]   [0.0]  [0.1]
Total            36.7  36.7  172.4  56.2  302.0             1.9   6.2    183.7   117.8  309.6
[28.1] [14.1] [107.8] [0.0] [150.0]        [1.4]  [5.3]  [140.4]  [0.0] [147.l]
ICB: Interational Competitive Bidding
LCB: National Competitive Bidding
Other: Local and International Shopping
NBF: Not Bank Financed
Note: Values in brackets represent Bank financing
-25 -



2.c Project Financing by Components (in US$ million equivalent):
A. Improving
System-Wide          10.1       10.1          9.2           1.6        91          14
Management
B. Strengthening School
Administration       23.1       22.8         30.6           7.2        132         30
C. Developing Teaching
Competence           28.3       27.9         44.9          13.5        159         47
D. Providing
Instructional        62.2       61.4         57.3         130.3         92         219
Materials
E. Upgrading Facility
Management           26.0       25.8          5.1           1.6         20          7
F. Project Management    0.3        4.0          0.0           8.2         0          95
Total                 150.0      152.0        147.1         162.5        98          104
-26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle            No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count        Specialty                  Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/1992                  1   EDUCATION SPECIALIST
10/1992                  3   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (I)
12/1992                  1   OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
01/1993                  1   EDUCATION SPECIALIST
02/1993                  6   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (4);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(I); INFRASTRUCTURE (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/1993                 16   MANAGER (I);
EDUCATION SPECIALIST
(8); PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST (2); COSTING
(2); OPERATIONS
SPECIALIST (1);
FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
(I); INFRASTRUCTURE (1)
09/1993                  1   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
10/1993                  1   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
02/1994
Supervision
05/1994 (PSR #I)         6   MIS (I); EDUCATION             S           S
SPECIALIST (2); HD
SPECIALIST (1);
EDUCATOR (1);
PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST (1)
08/1994 (PSR #2)         8   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);      S           S
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(2); DISBURSEMENT
OFFICER (I); FINANCIAL
MGMT. SPECIALIST (I); MIS
(1); PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST (I)
09/1994                  1   EDUCATION SPECIALIST
12/1994                  1   FINANCIAL MGMT.
SPECIALIST
06/1995 (PSR #3)             n/a                            U           S
07/1995                  2   SOCIOLOGIST (I);
EDUCATION SPECIALIST (I)
08/1995                  3   MIS SPECIALIST (I);
EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
ARCHITECT (1)
-28 -



11/1995                  1   MONITORING AND
EVALUATION SPECIALIST
05/1996                   1  EDUCATION SPECIALIST
06/1996                   7  EDUCATION SPECIALIST (5);
MONITORING AND
EVALUATION SPECIALIST
(2)
06/1996 (PSR #4)             n/a                            S           S
08/1996                  2   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2)
09/1996                   1  FINANCIAL MGMT.
SPECIALIST
10/1996                  1   MONITORING AND
EVALUATION SPECIALIST
02/1997 (PSR #5)             n/a                            U           S
04/1997                   1  EDUCATION SPECIALIST
06/1997 (PSR #6)             n/a                            S           S
09/1997                  2   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2)
01/1998                   1  EDUCATION SPECIALIST
07/1998 (PSR #7)             n/a                            S           S
04/1999 (PSR #8)         4   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (I);      S           S
OPERATIONS ANALYST (I);
DISE3URSEMENT ANALYST
(1); FINANCIAL MGMT.
SPECIALIST (1)
12/1999 (PSR #9)         1   ECONOMIST                      S           S
02/2000 (PSR #10)         4  ECONOMIST (1); EDUCATION       S           S
SPECIALIST (I); FINANCIAL
MGMT. SPECIALIST (I);
PROCUREMENT (I)
02/2000 (PSR #11)            n/a                            S           S
12/2000 (PSR #12)        3   EDUCATION SPECIALIST (3)       S           S
09/2001 (PSR #13)            n/a                            S           S
10/2001 (PSR #14)        4   ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL       S           S
MGMT. SPECIALIST (1);
PROCUREMENT (1);
ASSISTANT (1)
05/2002                  7   ECONOMIST (2); EDUCATION
SPECIALIST (2); FINANCIAL
MGMT. SPECIALIST (I);
PROCUREMENT (2)
ICR
09/2002                  4    ECONOMIST (2);                S
EDUCATION SPECIALIST
(1); AND STATISTICIAN
(1)
11/2002                  1   EDUCATION SPECIALIST           S
-29-



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            77.69*                        264
Appraisal/Negotiation                    n/a                         n/a
Supervision                          113.22*                        393
ICR                                     1.62                          5
Total                                 192.53                        662
* These tables are based on information currently available in the Bank's system. The number of staff
weeks before FY98 are only estimated. For data before FY98, the system only provides total amounts
without disaggregating by number of staff weeks and Project Cycle stage.
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Sector Policies                     O H *SUOM       O N  O NA
l Physical                            O H *SUOM       O N  O NA
O Financial                           O H OSUOM       O N * NA
OL Institutional Development          0 H 0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
El Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N        * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H *SUOM O N        O NA
Oi Gender                       O H OSUOM       O N O NA
Li Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM ON         * NA
El Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
L Public sector management            0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
-31-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O-1 Lending                                         OHS OS        OU    OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS        OU    OHU
L Overall                                           OHS * S       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
LI Preparation                                      OHS * S       O  U  O HU
3I Government implementation performance            O HS O S      0  U  0 HU
2 Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S      0  U  0 HU
L Overall                                           OHS OS        OU    O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I . Aide Memoire, August 9-26, 1994
2. Aide Memoire, June 28-30, 1995
3. Aide Memoire, July 24-26, 1995
4.  Aide Memoire, July 31-August 5, 1995
5. Aide Memoire, August 25-31, 1995
6. Aide Memoire, April 22-26, 1996
7. Aide Memoire, June 17-21, 1996
8.  Aide Memoire, September 10-11, 1996
9. Aide Memoire, October 7-11, 1996
10. Aide Memoire, February 14-23, 2000
11. Aide Memoire, October 23-26, 2001
12. Aide Memoire, May 5-10, 2002
13. Educa,co Para Todos: Minas Aponta o Caminho. UNICEF, 1993.
14. Education for All: Evaluation of the Year 2000. Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas
Educacionais--INEP, Brasilia, 2000.
15. Evolu,co da Matricula Efetiva: Minas Gerais 1991 a 2000. Centro de Produqao e Administra,cdo
de Informa,coes, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, 2000.
16. Gestao da Escola: Questoes e Esclarecimentos. SEE/MG, Belo Horizonte, 1993.
17. Gestion Descentralizada de la Educaci6n en el Estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil (Informe No. 11).
Andrea Guedes, et al., World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1997.
18. Loan Agreement Between IBRD and the State of Minas Gerais: Basic Education Quality
Improvement Project (Pr6-Qualidade). March 6, 1995.
19. Minas Pact for Education-Quality Education for All and All for Quality Education. Belo Horizonte,
1993.
20. Policy Letter on Basic Education Quality Improvement in Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, 1994.
21. Project Implementation Plan (PIP). SEE/MG, Belo Horizonte, 1994.
22. Pr6-Qualidade Mid-Term Review. SEE/MG, Belo Horizonte, 1998.
23. Relat6rio de Indicadores Globais-RIG. SEE/MG, Belo Horizonte, 1996-2001.
24. Retrospectiva da Vida Escolar de Alunos Matriculados na la Serie do 2o Ciclo (5a S&rie) em 1999.
GAME/UFMG, Belo Horizonte, 1999.
25. Staff Appraisal Report: Pr6-Qualidade. World Bank, Washington, D.C., 1994.
26. Sistematica de Financiamento do Ensino Fundamental. Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
Educacao--FNDE, MEC, Brasilia, 1997.
27. Relat6rio Final de Avaliacao do Pr6-Qualidade. SEE/MG, Belo Horizonte, 2002.
-33 -









IMAGING
Report No.:        25412
Type:     ICR



