Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3733 BR
Loan Agreement
(Basic Education Quality Improvement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
Dated March 6, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3733 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 6, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF MINAS GERAIS (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"AVA" means Programa de Avaliacþo da Escola Publica de Minas Gerais, the 
Minas Gerais public education evaluation program, a student assessment system 
established by SEE's (as hereinafter defined) Resolution 6908 of January 18, 1992;
(b)
"Annual Operational Plan" means each of the plans referred to in Section 
3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"CA" means comite de assessoramento, the high-level advisory committee 
established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree 35,432, of March 3, 1994;
(d)
"Education Policy Letter" means the Borrower's letter to the Bank dated 
March 29, 1994 describing the Borrower's policy on basic education quality 
improvement, aiming at, inter alia, the improvement of educational attainment in 
Elementary Grades (as hereinafter defined) of State Schools (as hereinafter defined), 
by increasing student learning and decreasing student repetition;
(e)
"Elementary Grades" means grades 1 through 8, or any of them, of primary 
education in the territory of the Guarantor; 
(f)
"PAIE Guidelines" means the guidelines referred to in Section 3.08 (a) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Bank and SEE;
(g)
"PIP" means the Project implementation plan set forth in the Borrower's 
letter to the Bank dated March 25, 1994, a plan describing the overall implementation 
of the Project, including, inter alia, the activities to be carried out during the 
first year of Project implementation, the MBD (as hereinafter defined), a time-table 
of the Project's critical actions, the criteria for delimiting the School Neighborhood 
and a time-bound plan of action for implementing the provisions of Section 3.07 of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Bank and SEE (as hereinafter defined);
(h)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the set of indicators for monitoring the 
implementation of the Project to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.05 
of this Agreement;
(i)
"MBD" means the Project specific model bidding documents for procurement 
of goods, works and consultants' services set forth in the PIP;
(j)
"Municipal School" means a school of Elementary Grades located in the 
State of Minas Gerais, administered, managed and funded primarily by a municipality;
(k)
"School Award" means an award made or proposed to be made by the Borrower 
to a State School, partially out of the proceeds of the Loan, to finance a School 
Project (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement;
(l)
"School Neighborhood" means the area of influence of a State School (as 
hereinafter defined), delimited in accordance with the criteria set forth in the PIP;
(m)
"School Project" means a specific school-based project selected by SEE 
(as hereinafter defined) to be carried out by a State School pursuant to Section 3.08 
(b) of this Agreement;
(n)
"SEE" means Secretaria Estadual de Educacþo, the Borrower's State 
Education Secretariat;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
Page  3
(p)
"State School" means a school of Elementary Grades in the State of Minas 
Gerais administered, managed and funded primarily by the Borrower; and
(q)
"UCP" means unidade de coordenacþo do projeto, the unit under SEE 
established for purposes of coordinating the execution of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred fifty million 
dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
Page  4
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Education Policy Letter, the PIP and the Annual 
Operational Plans, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational, administrative, training, management and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain during the Project implementation the UCP with managers, 
staff, structure, funds, equipment, functions and a computerized 
Project control system, all satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)
maintain the CA during the Project implementation, for purposes of 
overseeing the coordination among the units of SEE and other 
agencies and departments of the Borrower involved in the carrying 
out of the Project and of ensuring the priority and consistency of 
the Project throughout its implementation, with members, structure 
and functions, all satisfactory to the Bank;
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 9.07 
(a) (iii) and (c) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(a)
not later than April 15 of each year of Project execution, beginning in 
1996, an annual progress report on the Project, of such scope and detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request, including, inter alia: (i) the summary of the Project 
activities and results during the previous year based on, among other factors, the 
Monitoring Indicators; (ii) comments and recommendations of the CA; and (iii) an 
action plan for resolving the difficulties arisen during the Project implementation, 
if any; and
(b)
not later than 34 months after the Effective Date a progress report 
(mid-term progress report) on the Project, of such scope and detail as the Bank may 
reasonably request, including, inter alia, in addition to the items referred to in (a) 
above, an assessment of the Borrower's education sector and its effects on the Project 
implementation.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions in Section 9.01 (a) (i) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
not later than June 15 of each year during the execution of the Project, 
starting in 1996, hold annual reviews jointly with the Bank, such reviews to be based 
on the reports referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement and to focus, inter 
alia, on the following items: (i) the progress in the execution and in the achievement 
of the objectives of the Project based on, among other factors, the PIP, the Annual 
Operational Plan and the Monitoring Indicators; (ii) the level of synchronization in 
the carrying out of the different Parts of the Project; and (iii) the draft Annual 
Operational Plan for the succeeding year;
(b)
not later than 36 months after the Effective Date, review with the Bank 
(mid-term review) in addition to the items referred to in (a) above, the Borrower's 
education sector and how it affects the Project, such review to be based on the report 
referred to in Section 3.03 (b); and
(c)
take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed 
upon by the Bank and the Borrower during the reviews referred to in paragraphs (a) and 
(b) above, as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievement 
of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable 
agreed upon during such review. 
Section 3.05. Not later than June 15, 1995, the Borrower shall adopt a set of 
monitoring indicators for the Project (the Monitoring Indicators), satisfactory to the 
Bank, including time-bound quantitative indicators of the Project performance.
Section 3.06. (a) Not later than July 15 of each year during the execution of 
the Project, starting in 1995, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a plan (the 
Annual Operational Plan), satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, a detailed 
timetable of the Project activities to be carried out during the succeeding year and 
the budget requirements to carry out the Project during such year.
(b)
The Borrower shall include in its budget proposal to be presented to the 
Borrower's State Assembly (Assembleia Legislativa) for each year of Project 
implementation, the amount necessary to carry out the Project during such year as 
provided in the relevant Annual Operational Plan.
Section 3.07. Not later than the first school day of each school year, beginning 
in the school year of 1996, the Borrower shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, 
textbooks to all students in Elementary Grades in State Schools and Municipal Schools, 
for their use during such school year.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall adopt, and thereafter implement, guidelines 
(the PAIE Guidelines), satisfactory to the Bank, for the Borrower's Programa de Apoio 
as Inovacþes Escolares (a program to support school innovations), including the terms 
and conditions for the provision of School Awards;
(b)
Whenever appropriate and in accordance with the PAIE Guidelines, the 
Borrower shall provide awards (the School Awards) to State Schools for purposes of 
financing training, consultants' and other services, and goods required by projects 
(the School Projects) to be carried out, in accordance with the PAIE Guidelines, by 
such State School.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1995, December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1999 
complete the AVA for the periods 1994-1995, 1996-1997 and 1998-1999, respectively, in 
accordance with a methodology and under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
not later than December 31, 1995, enter into arrangements, satisfactory 
to the Bank, with the municipalities in the Borrower's territory that shall be 
necessary to compose a sample, satisfactory to the Bank, of at least 10% of the total 
number of students in Elementary Grades in Municipal Schools, for purposes of carrying 
out the AVA on the students of the Elementary Grades of the respective Municipal 
Schools; and
(c)
carry out the AVA for the periods referred to in paragraph (a) above 
beginning after December 31, 1995 taking into account the students of the Municipal 
Schools referred to in (b) above.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out surveys of State School and Municipal School facilities in the 
Page  6
School Neighborhoods, such survey to be carried out under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank;
and
(b)
furnish to the Bank the reports with the results of the surveys referred 
to in paragraph (a) above.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the SEE's Resolution 7174/94, of 
January 18, 1994, shall have been amended, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the 
opinion of the Bank, materially and adverselly the ability of the Borrower to carry 
out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central do Brasil; 
and
(b)
all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given by 
the Guarantor, the Borrower, by an agency thereof, or otherwise to be performed or 
given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the 
Guarantor and the Borrower to perform their  respective obligations pursuant to the 
Guarantee Agreement and this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights 
in connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central do 
Brasil; and
(b)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals, together with all 
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly 
performed or given and that no such other acts, consents or approvals are required in 
order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Guarantor and the 
Borrower to perform all of their respective covenants, agreements and obligations 
contained in the Guarantee Agreement and this Agreement, respectively.
Section 6.03. The date June 5, 1995 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The State Secretary of Education of the Borrower is designated as  
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado da Educacao
Rua Inconfidentes 1011 - 5o andar
30140-120 Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais
Brazil
Telex:
39-1200
Page  8
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orcamento e
Coordenacao da Presidencia da Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K"- 5o andar
70040-906, Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1146
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda
   do Estado de Minas Gerais
Praca da Liberdade s/n
30160-011 Belo Horizonte, MG
Brazil
Telex:
31-8242
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By /s/ Eduardo Brandao Azeredo
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated             % of
                               (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)     (a) Training              43,000,000        100% of foreign
        (including con-                             expenditures
        sultants' ser-                              and 70% of local
        vices)                                      expenditures
    (b) Consultants'              14,400,000        100% of foreign
        services (other                             expenditures
        than for trai-                              and 70% of local
        ning) and other                             expenditures
        services
Page  9
(2)     Civil Works               10,300,000        25%
(3)     (a)   Goods other         19,200,000        100% of foreign
        than educational                            expenditures and
        materials                                   70% of local
                                                    expenditures
        (b)    Educational        38,200,000        100% of foreign
        materials (except                           expenditures and
        textbooks)                                  70% of local
                                                    expenditures
(4)     School Awards              3,100,000        50% of the amounts
                                                    disbursed by the
                                                    Borrower
(5)     Unallocated               21,800,000
        TOTAL                    150,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and
(c)
the term "other services" means services other than consultants' services 
required by the Project including, inter alia, printing, graphics, packaging and data 
processing.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after a date which is the latter of July 1, 1993 or 
a date 12 (twelve) months before the date of this Agreement; (b) payments for 
expenditures under Category (2) for a State School unless the Bank has received the 
report referred to in Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement in respect of the School 
Neighborhood of such State School; and (c) payments for expenditures under Category 
(4) unless the Bank has received the PAIE Guidelines.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods not exceeding 
$300,000 equivalent, for works not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent, for services of 
consultant firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for services of consultant 
individuals not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's efforts to improve 
educational achievement in Elementary Grades of State Schools, as described in the 
Education Policy Letter, through: (a) the provision of tools to education managers for 
practicing information-based decision making; (b) the support to school directors for 
assuming their new roles in a decentralized education system; (c) the expansion in 
teacher's access to training opportunities; (d) the delivery of instructional 
materials, especially books, to students; and (e) the improvement in facility 
management aiming at an equitable access of students to classroom time as well as 
rational utilization of school spaces.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Education Management
 
Strengthening of the Borrower's education management capacity through:
Page  10
1.
improvement in data collection, information generation and reporting system for 
education monitoring;
2.
improvement and consolidation of the AVA in State Schools and Municipal Schools; 
and
3.
studies on the educational management policies and practices of the Borrower.
 
Part B:
School Administration
 
1.
Support the preparation and implementation of School Projects.
 
2.
Expansion and improvement of in-service training and technical assistance for 
school administration staff, including, but not limited to, directors, deputy 
directors, supervisors and council officers.
3.
Equipping State Schools with basic office technology hardware and software.
 
Part C:
Teaching Competence Development
 
Increase Elementary Grades teachers training opportunities, for mastery of 
educational materials usage and subject knowledge, including:
1.
preparation and distribution of curriculum guides, teacher training programs and 
videotapes for teaching of Portuguese, Mathematics, Social Sciences and Natural 
Sciences;
2.
provision of basic training for teachers from the first to the forth Elementary 
Grades, including teachers of such grades from municipal schools located in the 
Borrower's territory, and continuous training for teachers of Elementary Grades of 
State Schools;and
3.
assessment of the effectiveness of teacher training programs and other education 
activities and their relation to student learning, as measured by the AVA and/or other 
evaluation instruments, including studies to: (a) evaluate the basic training 
strategy; (b) identify alternative strategies for continuous teacher training; (c) 
identify the different effects on student learning of alternative methods of student 
progression; and (d) compare the learning levels of students who are promoted and 
those retained at the end of the second Elementary Grade.
Part D:
Provision of Instructional Materials
 
1.
Provision of textbooks to students in the Elementary Grades of State Schools and 
Municipal Schools.
2.
Establishment in State Schools of reading corners in all classrooms from the 
first to the fourth Elementary Grades, and of libraries in those State Schools 
offering from the fifth to the eighth Elementary Grades.
3.
Provision of teaching kits, including, inter alia, mathematical games, science 
kits, dictionaries and atlases, for teachers of Elementary Grades of State Schools.
Part E:
Facility Management
 
1.
Building and furnishing of State School facilities of Elementary Grades to allow 
State Schools to operate on the basis of two daytime shifts of four and a half hours 
each.
2.
Development of the Borrower's capacity to manage State School facilities.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
Page  11
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1999
through April 15, 2009
7,500,000.00
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  12
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two  predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank for the 
use of its borrowers, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to 
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based 
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more for goods and of 
more than $1,000,000 for works.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines, provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(a)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the 
complete goods.
(b)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or 
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the 
goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with 
each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, 
it shall be selected for the award. 
4.
If, as result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from Group A after adding:
(a)
to the evaluated bid price of goods to be imported in each group B bid an 
amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import 
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods 
offered in such group B bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and
(b)
to the evaluated bid price of goods supplied domestically offered in each 
group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and 
other import taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in such group B if they 
originated from the same foreign country as the bid included in group B which enjoys 
the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; or (ii) 15% of the evaluated bid 
price of such goods.
Page  13
If, as result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall 
be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as 
determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000 but more than the 
equivalent of $100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $300,000 but more than the 
equivalent of $50,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000 for goods 
other than educational materials and supplies, and $7,700,000 for educational 
materials and supplies, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank.
3.
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract and 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $6,400,000 for goods other than educational materials 
and supplies and $54,600,000 for educational materials and supplies, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
4.
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with Parts C.1 and C.2 
above, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used the MBD.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts for works, for 
furniture, for equipment and for educational materials to be awarded under the 
provisions of paragraphs C.1 and C.2 of this Section; the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
Other
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines the term custom duties and 
other import taxes includes the Guarantor's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the 
Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovacþo da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), 
established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, 
or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Part F:
Special Provisions
 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
Page  14
undertaken pursuant to Parts C.1 and C.2 hereof:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, 
to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of 
the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification 
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
2.
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at 
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
3.
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (consorcio) 
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case.
4.
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
5.
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change 
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity 
of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms 
and conditions of sale.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower 
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such 
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard 
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each with firms or to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each 
with individuals. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to single 
source selection of consultants, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably 
determined by the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above for contracts with firms or $50,000 equivalent or above 
for contracts with individuals.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
 the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in  respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
Page  15
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  16
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
